04.03.2019	04.03.19 Burr, Klobuchar Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Reclassify 9-1-1 Dispatchers WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), co-chairs of the Congressional Next Generation 9-1-1 Caucus, introduced the Supporting Accurate Views of Emergency Services Act, or the 9-1-1 SAVES Act, which would update the Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) to better reflect the life-saving work 9-1-1 call takers and dispatchers perform each day. “From dispatching first responders to using advanced technology to retrieve locations, the work 9-1-1 operators do is essential during emergencies,” said Senator Burr. “As the co-chair of the Congressional Next Generation 9-1-1 Caucus, I’m honored to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleague, Senator Klobuchar, to better recognize the specialized training and critical responsibilities of these professionals. “No matter where you are, if you dial 9-1-1, dispatchers are there to connect you to first responders,” said Senator Klobuchar. “This legislation makes important updates to the classification of 9-1-1 dispatchers to better capture the complex and technical nature of their occupations while also providing valuable statistical tools for federal agencies. I’m proud to work with Senator Burr to properly highlight dispatchers’ roles as safety leaders during times of crisis and the work they do to keep our communities safe.” Jamison Peevyhouse, President of the National Emergency Number Association (NENA), said, "We applaud Senators Burr and Klobuchar for introducing the 9-1-1 SAVES Act in the Senate. NENA and its members strongly support classifying 9-1-1 professionals as a ‘Protective Service Occupation,’ because it will better reflect the stressful, highly-skilled work these public servants perform, and because it will help to encourage and facilitate critical research into the mental and physical impacts of 9-1-1 jobs. We urge all senators to support the non-partisan, cost-free measure which would give the more than 100,000 public safety telecommunicators in the United States the respect and support they deserve.” Derek Poarch, Executive Director and CEO of the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO), said, “The work performed by Public Safety Telecommunicators is nothing short of extraordinary, and it is 100% ‘protective.’ Passage of the 9-1-1 SAVES Act will be a win for public safety, and APCO’s going to do everything it can to help make sure that happens.” Background: The SOC is a tool used by federal agencies to classify the workforce into useful, occupational categories. Currently, the SOC system categorizes 9-1-1 call takers and dispatchers as “Office and Administrative Support Occupations,” which also includes secretaries, office clerks, and taxi cab dispatchers. The 9-1-1 SAVES Act would instead recognize these dispatchers as “Protective Service Occupations,” which includes lifeguards, firefighters, TSA baggage screeners, among others. During the 115th Congress, Senators Burr and Klobuchar sent a letter to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs urging the Office of Management and Budget to update this categorization to capture the complex and technical nature of these professionals. Congresswoman Norma Torres (D-CA) also introduced a companion bill, H.R. 1629, in the House of Representatives.
04.03.2019	04.03.19 Senate Intel Chairman Richard Burr on NATO’s 70th Anniversary WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg delivered a joint address to Congress on the eve of the organization’s 70th anniversary. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement: “I appreciate Secretary General Stoltenberg appearing before Congress today to discuss NATO’s history and future. For 70 years, NATO has helped protect freedoms and promote peace throughout Europe, North America, and the world. Founded in the aftermath of World War II and under the looming threat of a nuclear conflict, NATO’s core mission has always been to ensure a strong, united defense against threats to democracy. Though the world has changed, that mission has never been more important. “Today, NATO has grown to 29 members, including several countries once under Soviet control. Under President Trump, members’ defense pledges have increased by nearly $100 billion. The U.S., Canada, and Europe are working together in new ways to meet 21st century challenges, like advancements in intelligence sharing and new cybersecurity initiatives. “As Americans, we will never forget Article 5 was invoked for the first time on September 12, 2001. The United States is a founder, leader, and beneficiary of NATO, and we remain deeply committed to our allies.”
03.28.2019	03.28.19 Senator Burr Introduces Bill to Improve Intercountry Adoption Information Reporting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr reintroduced the Intercountry Adoption Information Act, which would provide updated, quality information to Americans trying to adopt children from other countries. This bipartisan legislation is co-sponsored by Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH). “Far too often, American families trying to adopt a child abroad face difficulties navigating the intercountry adoption process,” said Senator Burr. “That is why I am proud to reintroduce this bill, which will bring to light the detrimental barriers that thwart adoptions and require the State Department to share the ways they are working to remove these barriers. I hope the Senate will quickly pass this commonsense legislation so we can better equip families with the tools needed to welcome a child into their home.” “Adoption should be a meaningful and profound process for families who wish to provide a safe and loving home for children,” said Senator Cardin. “Unfortunately, lack of access to information on foreign adoptions has added unnecessary barriers and frustration. I am proud to cosponsor this bipartisan legislation to make it easier for Americans to navigate this process and obtain all the information they need to make a real difference in a child’s life.” “Parents often face a unique set of challenges when trying to adopt a child from a country with restrictive adoption policies,” said Senator Blunt. “We can help connect more children with the home they deserve by making sure parents have the information they need to navigate the intercountry adoption process. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and, as co-chair of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, I’ll continue promoting policies that help families open their homes to a child in need.” “Around the world, there are so many children who need loving homes,” said Senator Klobuchar. “Our bipartisan Intercountry Adoption Information Act would improve information sharing for those navigating the complex international adoption process. I am proud to work with my colleagues to make the adoption system more effective in finding every child a home.” “We should be making the process to adopt children from other countries as easy as possible for the American families willing to give a child a home,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation would remove the information barrier many of those families currently face, and I hope we can get this commonsense legislation passed out of Congress and signed into law soon.” “Each year thousands of people across our nation open their homes to children from around the world in need of adoption,” said Senator Wicker. “I am glad to join my Senate colleagues to introduce this legislation, which would make it easier for a family to navigate the international adoption process and make a tremendous difference in the life of a child.” “Ohioans adopting children should have access to all the information they need to build their families and provide loving, safe and stable homes for children,” said Senator Brown. “I urge my colleagues in Congress to support this legislation to help people navigate this complicated process.” Background: Currently, the Intercountry Adoption Act (IAA) of 2000, requires the U.S. State Department to provide an annual report on intercountry adoptions. The report includes information on topics such as the number of intercountry adoptions, countries of origin for those adopted, and information on adoption agencies. The Intercountry Adoption Information Act would amend the IAA to require the State Department to provide additional information on the following: Countries that have enacted policies to prevent or prohibit adoptions to the United States; Actions taken by the State Department which have prevented adoptions to the United States; The ways in which the State Department has worked to encourage resuming adoptions in both cases. This information is critical for American families looking to adopt from countries that have established barriers to adoption, such as Russia or Ethiopia, or areas where the State Department has suspended intercountry adoption, such as abandoned children in Nepal. Congressmen Doug Collins (R-GA) and James Langevin (D-RI) also introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives this week.
03.24.2019	03.24.19 Senate Intel Chairman Richard Burr on Summary of Special Counsel Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the report filed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller: “I appreciate the Attorney General’s quick turnaround in sharing his summary of the Special Counsel’s report. The Attorney General should release as much of the report as possible, without jeopardizing U.S. intelligence sources and methods or ongoing Department of Justice prosecutions. In the coming weeks and months, the Senate Intelligence Committee will complete its remaining interviews and issue its reports on Russia’s attempts to interfere in our U.S. elections.”
03.22.2019	03.22.19 Senate Intel Chairman Richard Burr on Special Counsel Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the filing of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s completed report: "I trust Special Counsel Mueller has conducted a fair and thorough investigation, and I look forward to reviewing his report.”
03.14.2019	03.14.19 Burr Statement on Senate Vote on President’s Emergency Declaration WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) today issued the following statement on the Senate’s vote on H.J. Res. 46, the Emergency Declaration resolution of disapproval: “Securing America’s borders is one of our government’s basic responsibilities, and essential for ensuring the safety of our nation. After reviewing the emergency declaration with my counsel, I believe the President’s efforts to secure our Southern border are lawful based on the authorities passed by Congress.”
03.12.2019	03.12.19 President Trump Signs Law Making Land and Water Conservation Fund Permanent WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Trump signed into law a bipartisan public lands package that included Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) legislation to make the popular Land and Water Conservation Fund permanent. Senator Burr, a longtime champion of the LWCF, issued the following statement on the signing of S. 47, the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act: “Today is a great day. The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) is a rare government program that provides immense value at no cost to taxpayers. Over the years, it has contributed to more than 42,000 outdoor recreation projects and helped preserve more than 2 million acres across the country. With a proven track record of success and overwhelming bipartisan support, saving LWCF just made commonsense. I am glad to see LWCF finally cross the finish line. Now, it can continue its important conservation work with certainty, benefitting future generations.” Background: Over the last decade, Senator Burr has been the lead Senate champion for permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund. LWCF has a proven track record of success, contributing to more than 42,000 recreation projects since its founding in 1964. It operates at no cost to taxpayers, instead utilizing royalties earned from offshore oil and gas revenues. Despite strong bipartisan support in the Senate, Congress allowed LWCF to expire on September 30, 2018. In January 2019, Senator Burr reintroduced legislation with Senator Michael Bennet that would permanently reauthorize LWCF. On February 12, the Senate passed S. 47, which included permanent reauthorization for LWCF on a bipartisan vote of 92-8. On February 27, the House passed S. 47 on vote of 363-62.
03.05.2019	03.05.19 Burr Statement on FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb’s Resignation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement today on the announced resignation of U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Scott Gottlieb: “I want to thank Scott Gottlieb for his leadership at the FDA, an agency that regulates 25 cents of every dollar in the U.S. economy. Scott has been one of the best commissioners I’ve seen in the 25 years I’ve been in Washington. I look forward to the Administration’s next nominee, and hope they bring the same talents and passion that Scott Gottlieb has displayed.”
03.05.2019	03.05.19 Tillis & Burr Applaud Confirmation of Allison Jones Rushing as Judge for the Fourth Circuit WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applauded the Senate confirmation of North Carolina native Allison Jones Rushing as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. “I want to thank my Senate colleagues for voting to confirm Allison Jones Rushing to be a United States Circuit Court Judge for the Fourth Circuit,” said Senator Tillis. “Ms. Rushing is from East Flat Rock, North Carolina and after 11 years practicing law is considered one of the rising stars in the legal profession. I've had the opportunity to get to know Ms. Rushing through the nomination process and I know she's going to do a great job on the Fourth Circuit Court.” “I’m pleased the Senate has confirmed Allison Jones Rushing, a native North Carolinian and fellow Wake Forest graduate, to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Senator Burr. “As a partner at Williams & Connelly, Ms. Rushing distinguished herself as an expert appellate lawyer, with an impressive record of pro bono work. Equally important, she has demonstrated the character and temperament that makes a fair and impartial judge. I want to congratulate Ms. Rushing on her confirmation, and am confident she will serve on the Fourth Circuit honorably.” Allison Rushing previously was a partner with Williams and Connolly LLP with a focus on appellate matters, constitutional issues, and regulatory challenges. Ms. Rushing is widely viewed as one of the best young appellate lawyers in the country: Legal 500 has praised Ms. Rushing for her “excellent writing advocacy skills,” The National Law Journal has recognized her stellar oral advocacy in the Federal courts of appeals, and Super Lawyers has recognized her as one of its “Rising Stars.” Ms. Rushing has argued before Federal courts of appeals and state appellate courts, in addition to briefing cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Rushing clerked for then-Judge Neil Gorsuch on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, then-Chief Judge David Sentelle on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and Justice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court of the United States. Ms. Rushing earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Wake Forest University, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Duke University School of Law, where she served as executive editor of the Duke Law Journal.
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Senate Intel Committee Again Unanimously Passes Evanina Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence again favorably reported out the nomination of William R. Evanina to continue serving as Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center (NCSC). The nomination was first passed by the Committee last May. “Director Evanina’s ability to effectively lead the NCSC is not in doubt,” Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) said. “Over the years, he has proven time and again he has the real-world experience and professionalism our country needs to navigate increasingly complex threats to both the public and private sectors. Congress called attention to the importance of counterintelligence matters by making the director a Senate-confirmed position. It should confirm a full-time director without any further delay.” “Absolutely no one questions Bill Evanina's qualifications for a job he has been doing for years already in an acting capacity, which is why the Senate Intelligence Committee has once again unanimously approved his nomination to be Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center,” Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) said. “From brazen Russian espionage, to Chinese IP theft, to insider threats, our country is facing an enormous number of thorny and complex counterintelligence challenges. We need a Senate-confirmed leader to head our nation's counterintelligence strategy. Bill Evanina should be confirmed without further delay.” “I’m pleased to once again support Bill Evanina’s nomination as Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center. Counterintelligence is vital to our national security and his confirmation for this position is long-overdue,” said Senator James Risch (R-ID). “Today’s unanimous vote by the Intelligence Committee in favor of Bill Evanina’s nomination to be Director of the National Counterintelligence Security Center is a strong signal of support for Bill’s leadership of this crucial institution,” Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) said. “At a time when the counterintelligence threats our nation faces have never been higher, I urge the full Senate to act on this nomination in short order.” “Director Evanina has a demonstrated track record of leadership, professionalism, and expertise in the counterintelligence field,” said Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO). “I’m proud to support his nomination to continue leading the National Counterintelligence and Security Center. I hope to see the Senate quickly move forward on confirming Director Evanina, and all of the senior intelligence community nominees we need in place to keep our country safe.” “The United States is under constant threat from spies who seek to compromise our critical infrastructure and steal our most closely guarded secrets,” Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) said. “Rival countries like China are engaged in sophisticated campaigns to penetrate the government agencies, industries, and research laboratories that power and protect our nation. Technology theft alone costs our nation tens of billions each year. The cost to our security is far higher. Counterintelligence professionals like William Evanina fight every day to protect our nation from foreign spies. Mr. Evanina is a former law-enforcement officer with years of experience in counterintelligence. I’m proud to support his re-nomination to lead the National Counterintelligence and Security Center.”
02.27.2019	02.27.19 Burr Praises House Vote to Save Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. – Legislation to save America’s most successful conservation program, the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), will head to the President’s desk after passing the House late yesterday on a bipartisan, 363-62 vote. The measure to permanently reauthorize LWCF was included in S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act, which passed the Senate earlier this month. “I’m grateful my colleagues in the House voted today to bring us one step closer to making the Land and Water Conservation Fund permanent,” Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said in a statement. “No other government program benefits taxpayers as much and cost them as little as LWCF does. Over the last 50 years, every state in the country has been helped by LWCF in some way, and without it we’d have far fewer parks, forests, historic sites, and hiking trails. This is a program worth preserving, and I look forward to seeing it signed into law.” Background: Permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund has long been a priority for Senator Burr, who has championed the program over the last decade. LWCF has a proven track record of success, contributing to more than 42,000 recreation projects since its founding in 1964. It operates at no cost to taxpayers, instead utilizing royalties earned from offshore oil and gas revenues. Despite strong bipartisan support in the Senate, Congress allowed LWCF to expire on September 30, 2018. In January 2019, Senator Burr led a bipartisan coalition to reintroduce legislation that would permanently reauthorize LWCF. On February 12, the Senate passed S. 47, which included permanent reauthorization for LWCF.
02.14.2019	02.14.19 Sen. Burr Supports Attorney General Barr WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement regarding confirmation of William Barr to be Attorney General of the United States: “Attorney General Barr has my full support as a well-qualified and experienced lawyer who is eminently capable of serving as the head of the Department of Justice. He is one of the most experienced nominees in history, having already served as Attorney General under President George H. W. Bush, with a career spanning various positions at the Justice Department, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the private sector. “Unfortunately, I was unable to cast my vote to confirm Attorney General Barr today because I was attending the funeral of my good friend Congressman Walter Jones in Greenville, N.C. However, I look forward to working with the new Attorney General and feel confident he will serve the country faithfully.” ###
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Senate Votes to Make Land and Water Conservation Fund Permanent WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate voted to make permanent the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), America’s most successful conservation program, on a bipartisan vote of 92-8. The measure passed as part of the Natural Resources Management Act (S.47). Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), who has led the bipartisan fight to save the LWCF over the last decade, issued the following statement: “This victory was a long time in the making, and it is the result of the steadfast efforts of many who care deeply about America’s natural treasures,” said Senator Burr. “By making the Land and Water Conservation Fund a permanent program, we ensure that our country is always able to preserve our magnificent parks and outdoor spaces. Protecting this program is the right thing to do for our children, grandchildren, and countless generations so that they may come to enjoy the great American outdoors as we have. “I’m proud of my colleagues who joined me in this fight, and I look forward to the House passing this legislation soon.”
02.10.2019	02.10.19 North Carolina Mourns Loss of Rep. Walter Jones WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding the passing of Congressman Walter B. Jones, Jr. (NC-03): “Brooke and I were terribly saddened to hear about Walter’s passing. Walter and I came to Washington together in 1995. Having worked alongside him for nearly 25 years, I can tell you without hesitation that he left North Carolina, Congress, and our country better places than he found them. Walter will be remembered as a man of strong principles, willing to take an unpopular stand when necessary. He was a hard-working and faithful public servant, and he will be sorely missed. Our prayers are with his family – may he rest in peace.”
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Sen. Burr Statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union address: “Today, two years into the Trump Administration, our economy is booming, our job market is flourishing, and millions of Americans now get to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks each week. Unemployment is hovering steadily near record lows. Wages are on the rise. There are more open jobs than there are people to fill them. And employers and consumers alike feel confident about the direction we’re heading. “Our economy’s sustained success is largely thanks to this Administration’s efforts to prioritize Republican pro-growth policies. Under President Trump, Congress passed the first major tax overhaul in more than 30 years and enacted commonsense regulatory reform, rolling back needless bureaucratic red tape. “On top of that, we’ve filled a record number of judicial seats, confirmed two extremely qualified Supreme Court justices, taken action to address the opioid crisis, and passed bipartisan budget bills through the long-ignored appropriations process. “None of this guarantees the challenges that lay ahead will be easy or the answers simple. We still have much work to do to protect our borders, rebuild America’s aging infrastructure, improve healthcare affordability, and stand up to hostile foreign powers in an increasingly complex global environment. “By working together, however, we can continue laying the foundation for a bright and promising future. I hope my colleagues across the aisle listen to the President’s call for unity, and join us in focusing on the issues that matter the most to the American people.”
01.31.2019	01.31.19 Bipartisan Group of Senators Renews Push to Save LWCF WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), reintroduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), joined by a bipartisan coalition of members calling for the program’s renewal with increased urgency since its lapse in September 2018. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund may cost taxpayers nothing, but Congress’ failure to renew it would cost us all dearly,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). “Without this program, every state in the country would lose out on valuable outdoor recreation projects, beautiful natural landscapes, and easy access to state and national parks. It’s been four months since LWCF was allowed to expire despite its proven track record of success and overwhelming bipartisan support. It is long past time for Congress do the right thing by renewing America’s most successful conservation program.” “For over 50 years, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped protect Colorado’s iconic landscapes, expand outdoor recreation activities, and boost our local economy,” said Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO). “Failing to reauthorize the LWCF is an affront to future generations who rely on this conservation program to access public lands. We must permanently reauthorize and fully fund the program immediately." “I’ve been a strong supporter of the Land and Water Conservation Fund since day one, and I’m glad to once again introduce this legislation with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle,” said Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO). “LWCF is the crown jewel of conservation programs and protects Colorado’s beautiful public lands for future generations. I’m looking forward to the upcoming vote to permanently reauthorize this program.” “For the last half-century, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped Americans from all walks of life access the natural beauty of our country,” said Senator Angus King (I-ME). “From supporting outdoor recreation programs to preserving public lands, the LWCF transcends partisanship, and it should transcend politics – but far too often, the reauthorization of this vital program is subject to the whims of unrelated debates. It’s time to make a permanent commitment to the American people: that the LWCF will be here for years to come, working to connect our citizens with America’s public lands.” “LWCF is a critical conservation tool in Montana used to secure better access to our public lands,” said Senator Steve Daines (R-MT). “Permanent reauthorization would ensure this program would exist for generations to come. I won’t stop fighting until we get this done.” “LWCF is our country’s most important and successful conservation and outdoor recreation program,” said Senator Susan Collins (R-ME). “LWCF has created outdoor recreation opportunities in every county across the country. Permanent reauthorization of LWCF will strengthen local conservation and recreation efforts in Maine, helping to ensure both current and future generations can enjoy the beauty of its natural resources.” "The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a critical tool that expands public access for folks who hunt, hike and fish on our public lands - at no cost to taxpayers," said Senator Jon Tester (D-MT). "It is time to permanently reauthorize this successful initiative to ensure future generations can continue our Montana outdoor way of life." “I am proud to support the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) as an important tool in protecting South Carolina’s natural resources,” said Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC). “Through LWCF and its partners, South Carolina’s resources will be preserved so future generations can enjoy our great outdoors.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund plays an important role in strengthening the Granite State’s outdoor recreation economy by preserving our most beautiful and popular tourist sites, including the White Mountain National Forest,” said Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). “Permanently reauthorizing this critical program will provide our national and state agencies with the certainty they need to help protect our wildlife, environment and natural resources for generations to come. There is broad bipartisan support in Congress to invest in measures that ensure continued outdoor access for all Americans, and this bill will help us meet that goal.” “West Virginia is full of incredible natural beauty, which is why it’s so important that we maintain and preserve natural resources and destinations across the Mountain State,” said Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). “One way we are able to achieve that is through the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The conservation program has been instrumental in protecting our public lands and maintaining access to outdoor recreation in rural and urban areas in West Virginia and across the country. As a strong and long-time supporter of this program, I was proud to join my colleagues to introduce this legislation to permanently reauthorize LWCF. By doing so, we can provide permanent support to help preserve our public lands so West Virginians and visitors from all over can enjoy them for generations to come.” “LWCF preserves some of Iowa’s most special places, while also growing our local economies and encouraging outdoor recreation,” said Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA). “I am committed to permanently reauthorizing LWCF this Congress, so it can support conservation efforts in Iowa and beyond for generations to come.” A copy of the legislation, S.302, introduced today can be found here. Background: LWCF was last extended in 2015 for only three years after the program’s authorization lapsed, and amidst public outcry, bringing us to the most recent expiration on September 30, 2018. LWCF requires zero taxpayer dollars, instead utilizing royalties earned from offshore oil and gas revenues. Through several grant programs, the fund helps clean up wildlife areas, procure easements to improve access for Americans, takes care of historic parks and battlefields, and much more. Since its inception in 1964, LWCF has preserved and maintained recreational areas in all 50 states and nearly every congressional district. The outdoor economy generates roughly $900 billion in annual economic activity and supports 7.6 million jobs, all of which is benefitted by LWCF. ###
01.28.2019	01.28.19 Burr Statement on Huawei Indictments WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement in response to the indictments announced today against China’s Huawei Technologies and its U.S. affiliates: “I am encouraged by the Justice Department’s actions against Huawei Technologies, which detail the company’s brazen efforts to steal corporate trade secrets, commit fraud, and obstruct justice. Huawei is a global bad actor operating at the behest of the Chinese government and intelligence services. It seeks to undermine legitimate competition for telecom services, while subverting laws and democratic institutions. These indictments should send a clear message that the U.S. will not tolerate pernicious and illegitimate behavior that threatens our economic and national security.”
01.23.2019	01.23.19 Intel Committee to Hold Open Hearing on Worldwide Threats WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced the Committee will hold its annual hearing on worldwide threats on Tuesday, January 29, 2019, at 9:30 a.m. The open hearing will feature testimony from the heads of U.S intelligence agencies on the global security threats currently facing the United States. Following the open session, the hearing will move into a closed session. Hearing Details: Hearing: Annual Worldwide Threats Assessment Witnesses: Daniel Coats, Director of National Intelligence Christopher Wray, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation Gina Haspel, Director, Central Intelligence Agency GEN. Robert Ashley, Director, Defense Intelligence Agency GEN. Paul Nakasone, Director, National Security Agency Robert Cardillo, Director, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency When: Tuesday, January 29, 2019, at 9:30 a.m. Where: Hart Senate Office Building, Room 216 The hearing will be live-streamed on the Committee’s website here. You can find last year’s Worldwide Threats hearing here.
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Defense Secretary Mattis WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense James Mattis’ announced retirement in February: “It has been my great honor to work with Secretary Mattis on some of the most pressing national security challenges facing America. I thank him for his lifetime of service to our great nation, and wish him all the best in his future endeavors.”
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Senate Intel Statement on Treasury Department’s Sanctions on Oleg Deripaska, Companies WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) released the following statement on the Treasury Department’s announcement that it intends to delist companies owned by Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska amid restructuring and corporate governance changes: “Today’s announcement, which comes as a result of negotiated changes to the En+ corporate structure, does not change the fact that Mr. Deripaska, his employees, and his companies work at Vladimir Putin’s behest and operate as de facto representatives of the Russian government - a government that has occupied and intimidated its neighbors, sought to disrupt free and fair elections, violated nuclear treaties, and continued to wage influence campaigns to undermine western democracies, including our own. While the Treasury Department has made great strides in reducing Mr. Deripaska’s ownership state in En+ and making beneficial changes to the corporate governance, this deal will require constant monitoring to ensure that neither Mr. Deripaska nor the Russian government violate the terms of the agreement. The addition of Victor Boyarkin, one of Mr. Deripaska’s key lieutenants, to the sanctions list will help counter some of Russia’s malign influence efforts, and is a welcome step. We will continue monitoring these sanctions’ effects, and to hold accountable those who would violate them.”
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Senate Confirms Vice Adm. Joseph Maguire to National Counterterrorism Center WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the confirmation of Vice Admiral Joseph Maguire, USN (Ret.) to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC): “I am pleased to see Vice Admiral Maguire confirmed to lead the National Counterterrorism Center. Vice Adm. Maguire’s nearly four-decade career in the United States Navy – including commands in the Navy SEALs, the Naval Special Warfare Command, and as Deputy Director for Strategic Operational Planning at NCTC – makes him an excellent choice for this important national security post. I look forward to his continued service to our country and to working with him in the years to come as our Committee assesses growing and evolving threats at home and abroad.”
12.17.2018	12.17.18 New Reports Shed Light on Internet Research Agency’s Social Media Tactics WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, third-party experts released two independent analyses of social media tactics used by Russia’s Internet Research Agency (IRA) in their attempts to influence U.S. political discourse. The reports are the first comprehensive analyses of their kind conducted by entities other than social media companies themselves, and are based in part on data provided by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI). The reports, titled “The Tactics and Tropes of the Internet Research Agency” and “The IRA and Political Polarization in the United States, 2015-2017,” were authored by New Knowledge, and University of Oxford and Graphika, respectively. Statement from Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC): “Increasingly, we’ve seen how social media platforms intended to foster open dialogues can be used by hostile foreign actors seeking to manipulate and subvert public opinion. This newly released data demonstrates how aggressively Russia sought to divide Americans by race, religion and ideology, and how the IRA actively worked to erode trust in our democratic institutions. Most troublingly, it shows that these activities have not stopped. As we work to address these threats, these reports are proof positive that one of the most important things we can do is increase information sharing between the social media companies who can identify disinformation campaigns and the third-party experts who can analyze them.” Statement from Committee Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA): “These reports demonstrate the extent to which the Russians exploited the fault lines of our society to divide Americans in an attempt to undermine and manipulate our democracy. These attacks against our country were much more comprehensive, calculating and widespread than previously revealed. This should stand as a wake up call to us all that none of us are immune from this threat, and it is time to get serious in addressing this challenge. That is going to require some much-needed and long-overdue guardrails when it comes to social media. I hope these reports will spur legislative action in the Congress and provide additional clarity to the American public about Russia’s assault on our democracy.” Background: The third-party reports released today are based in part on data provided by the Committee under its Technical Advisory Group, whose members serve to provide substantive technical and expert advice on topics of importance to ongoing Committee activity and oversight. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions presented within are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Senate Intelligence Committee or its Membership. Separate from the Technical Advisory Group, the Committee is conducting an ongoing investigation into the extent of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. As part of its investigation, the Committee has held several open hearings on the use of social media by foreign influence campaigns, including recent hearings with third-party experts in August 2018 and social media company officials in September 2018. The Committee will release its own report on social media with its findings as an installment of its investigation. To read New Knowledge’s report, “The Tactics and Tropes of the Internet Research Agency,” click here. To read University of Oxford and Graphika’s report, “The IRA and Political Polarization in the United States, 2015-2017,” click here.
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Burr & Tillis Announce BUILD Grants for GoTriangle, City of Hickory, NCDOT WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced they have secured three BUILD Transportation grants totaling more than $60 million for North Carolina: GoTriangle will receive $20 million. The project will construct a new bus facility and structured parking to create a multimodal transit center in downtown Raleigh. The project includes an off-street bus transfer facility, pedestrian bridge, BRT platform and other BRT infrastructure, on-street pedestrian improvements and wayfinding, traffic signal prioritization, and new rolling stock. The City of Hickory will receive $17 million for infrastructure investment and road improvements. The project will develop an approximately 1.7-mile bicycle and pedestrian trail and a bridge over US 321, and construct a 1.2-mile complete streetscape loop in downtown Hickory that will add designated space for bicycles and pedestrians. The North Carolina Department of Transportation will receive $23 million for Growing Rural Economy and Agriculture through Transportation and Technology Enhancement or Replacement in North Carolina (GREATTER-NC). The project will replace approximately 77 bridges in need of repair across 17 rural counties. The project sponsor will also add broadband capabilities for transportation applications to appropriate bridges during construction. Senator Richard Burr: “I am grateful to Secretary Chao and the Department of Transportation for awarding North Carolina these vital grants to strengthen and improve infrastructure across the state. This new funding will help build 77 bridges and expand broadband access in rural communities, create new pedestrian and bike trails in the City of Hickory, and get the GoTriangle project closer to its goal of building a new, modern transportation hub for a fast-growing area.” Senator Thom Tillis: “These grants will be a tremendous help to the Triangle, the City of Hickory, and rural communities across North Carolina, allowing for improvements to our state’s transportation, infrastructure, and safety. I’m thankful to Secretary Chao for recognizing North Carolina’s infrastructure priorities and making a major investment through BUILD grants.” GoTriangle President and CEO Jeff Mann: “This is an exciting day for GoTriangle, the City of Raleigh and our entire region because this facility is an important part of the transit network we are building together. We want to sincerely thank Senators Tillis and Burr as well as Congressman Price for their strong leadership and partnership in helping secure this grant that will enhance bus connectivity and spur new economic, job and housing opportunities for our community.” Hickory Mayor Hank Guess: “The $17 million BUILD grant is a major federal investment that will improve Hickory’s infrastructure and better connect our region. I’m grateful for Senators Tillis and Burr for working directly with the City of Hickory over the last year, their support was instrumental in securing the grant.” N.C. Department of Transportation Secretary James Trogdon: “NCDOT is pleased to have been chosen for a BUILD transportation grant. These funds will replace bridges in many rural communities that depend heavily upon the agriculture industry which is great news.” BUILD Transportation grants are for investments in surface transportation infrastructure and are awarded on a competitive basis for projects that will have a significant local or regional impact. BUILD funding can support roads, bridges, transit, rail, ports or intermodal transportation.
12.01.2018	12.01.18 Senator Burr on the Passing of Former President George H.W. Bush WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the passing of former President George Herbert Walker Bush: “Brooke and I are saddened to hear of the passing of President George H. W. Bush, and our prayers are with the Bush family. President Bush was the last of the Greatest Generation to serve as president, and his legacy reflects the values learned through hardship and war: integrity, humility, and honor. He wore many hats during his long career, including Congressman, Ambassador, and Vice President. He also served with distinction as Director of Central Intelligence. As president, he guided America through a pivotal moment in history at the end of the Cold War and the liberation of Eastern Europe. “But above all he was a proud father, grandfather, and great-grandfather. And for 73 years, he was a devoted husband to his beloved Barbara, with whom he is now reunited. “It is a testament to President Bush’s character that history will remember not only his impressive achievements, but his many kind and compassionate words along the way. ‘Be strong, be kind, be generous of spirit, be understanding and let people know how grateful you are,’ he wrote in his diary the night he lost re-election. ‘Finish with a smile and some gusto and do what’s right and finish strong.’ “He was an example to us all, and his smile and gusto will be sorely missed.”
11.29.2018	11.29.18 Burr Statement on Michael Cohen Guilty Plea WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement: “Michael Cohen’s indictment and guilty plea is once again an example that you cannot lie to Congress without consequences. It should be no surprise that Mr. Cohen has had in his possession for months a letter requesting return visits to the Committee.”
11.28.2018	11.28.18 NC Congressional Delegation Continues Efforts to Secure Hurricane Florence Recovery Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s Congressional delegation received Governor Cooper’s disaster funding request as it continues its work to secure additional Hurricane Florence recovery funding from congressional appropriators to assist in rebuilding efforts in areas affected by the storm. The North Carolina Congressional delegation previously secured more than a billion dollars for the state’s long-term recovery in legislation passed in October. Click HERE to read the letter. “North Carolina suffered wide-spread devastation from Hurricane Florence, causing billions of dollars in damages to communities across our state,” said Senator Tillis. “The effort by Governor Cooper and the North Carolina state government to assess the damages caused by Hurricane Florence and submit a timely disaster funding request compliments the months-long work by the North Carolina Congressional delegation to ensure we receive additional federal relief to recover from this devastating storm.” “I stand with North Carolina’s Congressional delegation in supporting Governor Cooper’s request for additional disaster relief funding to help our fellow North Carolinians still hurting from Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Burr.“This additional funding is critical for helping our state get back on its feet soon and rebuilding after historic destruction. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Tillis, Governor Cooper, and our colleagues in the House to ensure North Carolina gets the Federal support it needs.” “Hurricane Florence was one of the most devastating storms in our state’s history. The disaster funding request letter, submitted by Governor Roy Cooper today, builds upon our delegation’s bipartisan work to deliver critical resources to help communities still struggling in the aftermath of the storm,” said Congressman Rouzer. “I applaud the state’s efforts and look forward to continuing our work, at all levels of the government, to help our state rebuild stronger than ever.” “As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I greatly appreciate Governor Cooper’s leadership in developing a disaster funding request based on sound data and analysis that will help guide our efforts in Washington,” said Congressman Price. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my House and Senate delegation colleagues to secure necessary funding for North Carolina’s full recovery.” “I’ve made it a priority to secure critical funds to help our neighbors impacted by Hurricane Florence and will continue to work in a bipartisan manner with our Governor, our two Senators and our House delegation, said Congressman Hudson.” “I thank Governor Cooper for his steadfast leadership as our state works to rebuild from Hurricane Florence,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield “Today, Governor Cooper provided Congress with a thoughtful and comprehensive request for federal assistance in North Carolina’s Hurricane Florence recovery efforts. In the waning days of the 115th Congress, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to secure vital federal funding needed to help North Carolina recover even stronger than before.” “Hurricane Florence inflicted billions of dollars in damage, caused catastrophic flooding and upended the lives of families across North Carolina,” said Congressman Holding. “Individuals and businesses hurt by the storm are in need of relief. In October, Congress initially authorized a down payment for disaster relief while we awaited a full assessment of the damage. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the Carolinas have the resources needed to rebuild and recover from Hurricane Florence.” “Hurricane Florence was truly devasting to many families throughout North Carolina, ultimately causing billions of dollars in damage,” said Congresswoman Adams. “I thank Governor Cooper for his leadership during the ongoing recovery efforts and I proudly stand by his funding request, which will ensure that our state has the resources needed to make a full recovery.”
11.16.2018	11.16.18 N.C., S.C. Senators to Request Additional Disaster Relief for Hurricane Florence Recovery WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Tim Scott (R-SC) formally requested the next Senate appropriations bill include additional disaster relief for areas struggling in the wake of Hurricane Florence. In a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Vice Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT), the Senators praised the Committee’s quick response following the hurricane, which led to a $1.68 billion down payment passed in October. “Thanks to your assistance, state agencies across the Carolinas are already establishing plans to rebuild the hardest hit communities over the coming months and years,” the letter states. However, the letter adds, in the last two months, “A total of 51 counties have been declared disaster areas in North Carolina, including 34 for individual assistance, and in South Carolina 19 counties have been declared, including 8 for individual assistance. Many of the communities affected by Hurricane Florence were also impacted by other severe flooding events within the last three years, further complicating the recovery and rebuilding efforts. In total, our states suffered combined damage totaling over $20 billion.” “It will take years for many communities to recover, requiring the combined efforts of state and federal agencies,” the letter continues. “In the near future we will provide the Senate Appropriations Committee and relevant subcommittees with funding requests and programmatic changes needed to further recover efforts,” the Senators add. “It is our hope and request that emergency appropriations for states affected by Hurricane Florence be included in the next appropriations bill the Senate considers.” To read the entire letter, click here.
11.16.2018	11.16.18 Senator Burr Leads Bipartisan Tax Relief Effort for Victims of Hurricane Florence, Recent Natural Disasters WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) have introduced S. 3648, the Hurricanes Florence and Michael and California Wildfire Tax Relief Act, to aid victims of recent natural disasters. “The historic hurricanes that hit Florida and the Carolinas this year devastated communities across the Southeast,” said Senator Burr. “Homes were destroyed, businesses swept away and savings wiped out. It is critical that Congress act quickly to provide tax relief for those still struggling to rebuild their lives and livelihoods. This legislation provides several important tax breaks for eligible individuals and businesses that will help lessen the burdens they face and allow them to rebuild their futures. “ “Hurricane Florence had a devastating impact on North Carolina, creating financial hardship for many families across the state,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing bipartisan legislation that would provide much-needed relief for families and small businesses who have been hit by recent natural disasters, including North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Florence.” “Hurricanes Florence and Michael brought unimaginable devastation to South Carolina and surrounding states,” said Senator Graham. “This tax relief package will afford South Carolinians, and other Americans who have been impacted by disaster, greater flexibility in utilizing retirement account assets for immediate disaster-related needs. It’s similar to the legislation we passed to support Texans suffering in the wake of Hurricane Harvey in 2017. I applaud Senator Burr’s leadership on this issue and urge Congress to pass our legislation immediately.” “I’ve been working to ensure that Floridians who were affected by Hurricane Michael receive the support they need from the federal government, and one of the best ways to do that is to provide tax relief so that they can use their money to recover,” said Senator Rubio. “I am proud to work with my colleagues from other states experiencing natural disasters, including Senator Burr, to introduce this bill so that Americans affected by Hurricane Michael can continue rebuilding their lives and communities.” “It’s heartbreaking to see our communities devastated by wildfire and hurricanes,” said Senator Feinstein. “Our bipartisan bill will help families recover by providing them with much-needed tax relief as we begin to rebuild in the aftermath of these natural disasters.” “The wildfires that tore across California this year claimed precious lives, devastated communities, destroyed thousands of homes, and forced hundreds of thousands of Californians to evacuate,” said Senator Harris. “The road to recovery for these communities won’t be easy, and we have a responsibility to give them the federal support they desperately need. Today, I am proud to join with my colleagues to provide these families working to rebuild their lives with much-needed tax relief.” Background The Hurricane Florence and Michael and California Wildfire Tax Relief Act: Allows more taxpayers to claim a deduction for personal casualty losses by removing requirement to itemize; Removes penalties on certain hardship withdrawals from retirement accounts; Encourages employers in hard-hit areas to retain employees; Allows taxpayers to use earned income from the preceding year when claiming Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit; Suspends limits on charitable contributions to disaster relief efforts. Expands Opportunity Zones to hardest-hit areas. You can read a copy of the bill here.
11.15.2018	11.15.18 Sen. Burr Statement on FDA Seeking to Ban Menthol WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) announcement that it will seek to ban menthol cigarettes: “This is not the first time the FDA has tried to ban menthol, but these efforts have been unsuccessful in the past. It is troubling, however, that an Administration that pledges to put America first is targeting legal, American-made products instead of focusing its attention on states that flout federal drug laws. If the United States continues down this path, we will be following in Canada’s footsteps, banning menthol but legalizing recreational drug use. I hope the Administration will choose a better way to protect our children.”
11.11.2018	11.11.18 Senator Burr Statement on 100th Anniversary of Armistice Day WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “Today marks the 100th anniversary of the armistice that ended hostilities in World War I. Nearly ten million troops were killed and millions more were wounded in a conflict of such magnitude it was called ‘the war to end all wars.’ Yet in many ways World War I was the beginning, not the end, of the struggle for freedom and human rights that has shaped the last century. As we remember the courage and the sacrifices of those who fought in World War I, we also take a moment to thank all our nation’s veterans who have helped protect American freedoms. Thank you to the brave men and women who have served our nation in uniform, and God bless the United States of America.”
10.12.2018	10.12.18 Senator Burr Statement on Release of N.C. Pastor Andrew Brunson WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement on the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson, who had been unjustly detained in Turkey for the last two years: “I am incredibly grateful that Pastor Brunson has finally been released from his long and unjust detainment in Turkey. President Trump and his Administration made Pastor Brunson’s unconditional release a top priority, and I want to thank them for their tireless work on his behalf. Because of their efforts and strong pressure from Senators Thom Tillis, James Lankford and other members of Congress, an innocent man will soon be back home. Our prayers are with Pastor Brunson and his family as they celebrate his return and recover from this brutal ordeal.” Pastor Brunson is from Black Mountain, North Carolina. A Presbyterian pastor, he worked peacefully as a Christian missionary in Turkey for 23 years before his arrest and detainment in October 2016.
10.06.2018	10.06.18 Senator Burr Votes to Confirm Brett Kavanaugh to U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate voted 50-48 to confirm Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Justice Kavanaugh has proven himself to be a fair, serious and qualified jurist, who will continue his distinguished record of service on the U.S. Supreme Court. It is deeply disappointing that this confirmation process has been marred by unnecessary delays and bitter personal attacks. The Senate’s constitutional responsibility is to provide advice and consent to the President on his nominee, and today the Senate fulfilled that responsibility.”
10.04.2018	10.04.18 Senate Intel Committee Statement on DOJ Russian Hacking Charges WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) released the following joint statement on the Department of Justice’s indictment of seven Russian GRU officers for international hacking and disinformation operations: “Today’s charges further highlight the illegal and aggressive tactics Russia uses to undermine international institutions and wage disinformation campaigns. In recent years, Russia has reportedly hacked or attempted to hack democratic elections, the Olympics, the power grid in Ukraine, and now the international organization that investigates the illegal use of chemical weapons. As Justice Department officials stated today, these actions are part of a criminal conspiracy and are wholly unacceptable. We commend the Department of Justice and our Dutch and British allies on the steps they’ve taken to hold Russia accountable. Collectively, we will continue to combat Russia’s illegal activities and make clear that this reckless and belligerent behavior will not be tolerated.”
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Florence Disaster Relief Funding Passes Congress as Down Payment for Recovery Washington, DC – Today, Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis of North Carolina released the following statements regarding the passage of the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill, which includes $1.68 billion in disaster relief funding for North and South Carolina following Hurricane Florence: “This funding is an important step on the long road to recovery for the thousands of North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Burr. “With $1.14 billion allocated for North Carolina, and another $540 million for South Carolina, our constituents can start to rebuild their homes, businesses and livelihoods. I look forward to working with Governor Cooper and state and local officials to ensure this money is distributed quickly and efficiently to get North Carolina back on solid ground as soon as possible. This bill also includes a version of legislation I introduced that would require the Secretary of Transportation to develop minimum standards for service and emotional support animals for air travel. I look forward to working with the Transportation Department in order to successfully implement these needed reforms.” “The inclusion of $1.68 billion in disaster belief funding, including our $1.14 billion request for North Carolina, is an important down payment to begin recovering from the devastation left behind from Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Tillis. “Federal assistance will be the key to North Carolina’s recovery over the coming months and years, and I will continue to work with the entire North Carolina Congressional delegation to ensure families have the resources needed to rebuild their homes and businesses and our great state can rebuild our infrastructure. I am also glad this legislation includes reforms to FEMA programs to expedite assistance for recipients of FEMA aid and simplify federal requirements for individuals and state, local, and Indian tribal governments. We must ensure North Carolinians receive assistance as soon as possible, and this legislation is a positive first step in a long road ahead.” Background Information Senators Burr and Tillis, along with the rest of the North Carolina Congressional Delegation, wrote to the president to request an expedited major disaster declaration as Hurricane Florence made landfall near Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina on September 14, 2018. The following week, North and South Carolina’s Senators joined together to write to appropriators to include the necessary funding to begin recovery efforts as soon as possible. North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation letter to President Trump can be found here, and Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Tim Scott’s (R-SC) letter to Senate Appropriations Committee leaders can be found here.
10.02.2018	10.02.18 Burr: The Time is Now to Vote on LWCF WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the passage of S. 569, a bill to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), out of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee: “Today’s affirmative vote in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee is a step toward our goal of permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund with full funding. Although it’s unfortunate that it took LWCF’s expiration to finally spur the Senate to act, I am thankful for my colleagues’ efforts to renew this important program so we can preserve America’s natural treasures for generations to come. I will keep pushing to bring this bill up for a vote in the full Senate as soon as possible.” Background Information The Land and Water Conservation Fund, America’s most successful conservation program, expired on September 30, 2018. This bill would permanently reauthorize the program and mandate funding from federal offshore energy revenues flow into the program each year. A copy of Senator Burr’s statement for the record to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee during the bill’s consideration can be found here.
09.26.2018	09.26.18 Burr, Daines, Gardner Lead LWCF Colloquy on Senate Floor U.S. SENATE — U.S. Senators Steve Daines (Mont.), Cory Gardner (Colo.) and Richard Burr (N.C.) led a colloquy today on the floor of the U.S. Senate on the importance of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Without congressional action, the program is set to expire at the end of the month. Watch HERE Download HERE “As an avid outdoorsman myself, I know first-hand the importance of our public lands… LWCF ensures that our booming outdoor economy can continue to grow. It allows hunters, anglers and others sportsmen to have access to their public land… LWCF is a program that maximizes the value of public lands to the taxpayer, helps boost our outdoor economy and has strong bipartisan support… I know that each of us will continue to fight for LWCF at every opportunity. I again urge my colleagues to listen to the stories you heard today, listen to your constituents, and join us in fighting to reauthorize to Save LWCF...” Daines said. “While public access is usually the focus Land and Water Conservation Fund efforts, today North Carolinians are coping with Hurricane Florence and her aftermath. North Carolina recently experienced a hurricane of epic proportions, with flooding reaching record levels. Although the two might seem unrelated, LWCF helps ensure our natural infrastructure is well positioned to deal with a major influx of water, minimizing its negative effects. If we strategically create green spaces in our cities and in our river basins, we can mitigate some of the very flooding folks are experiencing from Florence. The Land and Water Conservation Fund helps us do just that…” Burr said. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund preserves assets for future generations, not just for 5 or 10 years, but for as long as this great nation exists. It provides land like the Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park, as a place that gives everyone the opportunity to be at one with your thoughts and yourself, where you can plan and hope. That’s what LWCF brings to all of us, because we’re all better people knowing that our most wild and natural places exist in truly wild and natural spaces…” Gardner said.
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Senator Burr Statement on Judge Kavanaugh Nomination WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the status of the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court: “Democrats made it clear they would stop at nothing to block President Trump’s Supreme Court pick before Judge Kavanaugh was even chosen as the nominee. President Trump has every right to nominate the individual of his choosing to the Supreme Court, and the Senate should go through the normal advice and consent process, as it has done for the last 12 weeks. Immediately following the conclusion of Thursday’s hearing, the Senate Judiciary Committee should vote up or down on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination. I intend to support Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination when it comes before the full Senate.”
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Hurricane Florence Disaster Relief and Recovery Information Important Hurricane Florence Information: For Life Threatening Emergencies: Dial 9-1-1 For Non-Life Threatening Situations and the Latest Information on Hurricane Florence: Dial 2-1-1 U.S. Coast Guard Search and Rescue: Dial 1-757-398-6700 Evacuation Orders: Go to NCDPS.Gov/Florence for the latest evacuation updates and check DriveNC.gov for the most recent information on road closures. This information is changing quickly, so please stay safe and up to date. Dialysis Services: Dial 1-800-524-7139 for emergency dialysis services. For Fuel and Gas: Visit GasBuddy.com or download the app. NC Emergency Management: Follow NC Emergency Management on Twitter (@NCEmergency) for updates and statements from state and local officials. Get more updates by downloading the ReadyNC app, available along with more info on ReadyNC.org. American Red Cross: Find hurricane safety and preparedness tips on RedCross.org or follow the group on Twitter (@RedCross) or Facebook (Red Cross). You can find a list of open emergency evacuation shelters here. Disaster Recovery and Relief Information: Disaster Relief: Visit DisasterAssistance.Gov or dial 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should dial 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), dial 1-800-621-3362. The following counties are designated for individual assistance under FEMA’s Major Disaster Declaration: Anson, Beaufort, Bladen, Brunswick, Carteret, Chatham, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Duplin, Durham, Greene, Guilford, Harnett, Hoke, Hyde, Johnson, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Moore, New Hanover, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pender, Pitt, Richmond, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Union, Wayne and Wilson Counties. The following counties are designated for public assistance, under FEMA’S Major Disaster Declaration: Alamance, Alleghany, Anson, Ashe, Bertie, Cabarrus, Chatham, Dare, Davidson, Granville, Madison, Montgomery, Orange, Person, Polk, Randolph, Rowan, Stanly, Union, Tyrell, and Yancey Counties for Public Assistance, including direct Federal Assistance. Beaufort, Bladen, Brunswick, Carteret, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Duplin, Greene, Harnett, Hoke, Hyde, Johnson, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Moore, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, Pender, Pitt, Richmond, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Wayne and Wilson Counties for Public Assistance {Categories C-G] (already designated for debris removal and emergency protective measures [Categories A and B], including direct federal assistance, under the Public Assitance program). North Carolina residents who suffered losses and damage as a result of Hurricane Florence can get information about disaster assistance at Disaster Recovery Centers (DRC). Find the locations through the FEMA app or at http://www.ncdps.gov/disaster-recovery-centers. Certain businesses and individuals living in counties with Individual Assistance designations may qualify for tax filing deadline postponements. For more information click here or contact the IRS disaster hotline at 866-562-5227 Fact Check on Hurricane Florence: For verified information and fact-checking, visit Fema.gov/Florence-rumors to be sure any information you receive is accurate. Please be aware of SCAMS: Federal and state workers never ask for or accept money, and always carry identification badges. There is NO FEE required to apply for or to get disaster assistance from FEMA, the U.S. Small Business Administration or the state. Scam attempts can be made over the phone, by mail or email, text or in person. Anyone who suspects fraud should call FEMA’s Disaster Fraud Hotline at 866-720-5721, or the state’s Attorney General fraud hotline. U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Assistance for Disaster Relief: Check here for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) updated information. U.S. Department of Agriculture Disaster Assistance Discovery Tool: Check here to see if you qualify for disaster relief from USDA. Help with SBA Loans: The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) offers low-interest disaster loans to help homeowners and renters as well as businesses of all sizes and private non-profit organizations to cover the cost of replacing lost or disaster-damaged personal property. These disaster loans cover losses not fully compensated by insurance or other recoveries and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. Contact U.S. Small Business Administration’s Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center by dialing 800-659-2955, or for the deaf and hard-of-hearing, dialing 800-877-8339, emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov, or visiting SBA’s website at www.sba.gov/disaster. North Carolina Assistance Programs COMMUNITY RESOURCES TO HELP WITH RECOVERY United Way North Carolina 2-1-1: www.nc211.org/ Salvation Army: (800) 725-2769 Catholic Charities of Raleigh: (919) 790-8533 Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) disaster resources: 202-708-1112, TTY: 202-708-1455 http://portal.hud.gov EMPLOYMENT HELP Career One Stop: 877-872-5627 or TTY, 877-889-5627, www.careeronestop.org FOOD NEEDS North Carolina Food Services: 919-855-4800 or www.ncdhhs.gov Feeding America: www.feedingamerica.org Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina: www.foodbankcenc.org Albemarle Food Bank: www.afoodbank.org USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline for food safety: 888-674-6854 HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES FOR THOSE IN NEED North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services: 919-855-4800 or www.ncdhhs.gov HELP FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES Helping paying bills for low-income families www.needhelppayingbills.com HOTLINES FOR EMERGENCY HELP If you or someone you know is in immediate danger because of thoughts of suicide Suicide Hotline: 800-784-2433 or 800-273-8255 or www.suicide.org The National Domestic Violence Hotline: 800-799-7233 Alcoholics Anonymous: www.aa.org FARM SERVICES AVAILABLE Farm Service Agency: 919-875-4800 www.fsa.usda.gov/state The N.C. Cooperative Extension Service: 919-515-2813, has offices in all 100 counties www.ces.ncsu.edu FSIS Small Plant Help Desk by phone at 877-374-7435 Farmers who have an agricultural emergency can call 1-866-645-9403, and find additional information at www.ncagr.gov/disaster USDA farm loan fact sheet, click here. USDA Disaster handout, click here. Hurricane Loss Worksheet, click here. HOUSING NEEDS Housing Assistance www.nchousing.org Rural Development Multi-Family Housing Programs: 919-873-2050 Single Family Housing Programs: 919-873-2051 TRANSPORTATION North Carolina Department of Transportation: www.ncdot.gov Department of Motor Vehicles: 919-715-7000 UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE FOR SURVIVORS Department of Labor: 866-487 2365, TTY 877-889-5627 North Carolina Division of Employment Security: 866-487-2365, TTY 877-889-5627, www.ncesc.com TEAR OUT, CLEANOUT, DEBRIS REMOVAL, MOLD REMEDIATION Baptist Men of North Carolina: 800-395-5102 ext. 5605 www.baptistsonmission.org North Carolina Conference United Methodist Church www.nccumc.org, 888-440-9167 VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES www.ncvoad.org Important Resources for Veterans: Veteran Disaster Hotline Number: 1-800-507-4571 Employee Disaster Hotline Number: 1-866-233-0152 VBA Hotline Number: 1-800-827-1000 Pharmacy Customer Care: 1- 866-400-1243 Vet Center/Counseling: 1-877-WAR-VETS North Carolina VA Medical Centers: Durham VA Health Care System Salisbury VA Medical Center Fayetteville VA Medical Center VBA Hotline Number: 1-800-827-1000 VA Benefits Regional Office: Winston-Salem For more updates and contact information visit the Veterans Affairs’ Hurricane Florence website here. Important Contacts for Energy and Power Companies: Duke Energy: Report any power outages by calling 800-228-8485, texting OUT to 57801 or visiting duke-energy.com. You can also monitor updates on Twitter (@DukeEnergy) and Facebook (Duke Energy). NC Electric Cooperatives: Report a power outage in your county on the cooperatives’ website, NCElectricCooperatives.gov. Dominion Energy: Save their web address, DominionEnergy.com, to report any power outages in your area, or call 866-366-4357.
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Carolina Senators Lead Push For Florence Federal Assistance WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Tim Scott (R-SC) applauded the House for granting their request for a $1.68 billion down payment for Hurricane Florence disaster relief in the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. The relief includes $1.14 billion for North Carolina and $540 million for South Carolina. The senators made the formal request for a $1.68 billion down payment in Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program funding in a letter to appropriators earlier this week. The CDBG-DR grants would support a variety of disaster recovery activities in North Carolina and South Carolina, including housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, and infrastructure repair. View the senators’ letter to appropriators here. “This has been a truly Team Carolina effort, beginning before Florence even made landfall. We have had productive meetings and conversations with Congressional leaders to secure disaster relief and an initial down payment,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I’m pleased our $1.68 billion request, including $1.14 billion of relief for North Carolina, was included in the House bill, and we’ll continue to work together with Senate leadership to see through that a major down payment is included in the final legislation. This is only the beginning of our efforts to ensure North and South Carolina have federal resources to recover from the devastation caused by Florence and that hardworking families, small businesses, and farmers have the assistance they need to rebuild and get back on their feet.” “The $1.68 billion in disaster relief we’ve secured will allow tens of thousands of North Carolinians who lost their homes and businesses to begin rebuilding their lives,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Because the funding comes through Community Development Block Grants, we will be able to better transition from an emergency response to long-term recovery efforts, knowing the path ahead of us is long and arduous. Throughout this process, I’ve been impressed by the coordination and rapid response from Local, State and Federal officials. I am grateful we’ve secured funding to continue this vital work.” “As South Carolina and North Carolina continue to deal with the aftermath of this historic hurricane, we understand that it will take a team effort to rebuild,” said Senator Lindsey Graham. “We face a long, tough road ahead. Those efforts have already begun and we are committed to ensuring our states have the tools they need to recover from this terrible storm. I want to thank my colleagues from the Carolina’s and look forward to our continued partnership.” “As rivers are still rising in South Carolina, I want to thank Team Carolina for coming together and working to ensure our states receive the resources they need from the federal level,” said Senator Tim Scott. “Disaster recovery is truly a team effort, and I know we will keep working to aid our families, farmers, small businesses and all those affected by Hurricane Florence.” ###
09.19.2018	09.19.18 Burr and Tillis Join President Trump in North Carolina WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr joined President Trump during his visit to North Carolina to assess the damage caused by Hurricane Florence. “We are now moving towards the next step, which is getting the initial funding for recovery. We’ve made a request, and we’ll be moving forward and working with Governor Cooper with trying to get the money in place for some of the initial recovery,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank all the volunteers as well who have come together, this is when North Carolina and America is at its best.” “I’ve been doing disasters in North Carolina as an elected representative for now 25 years, and I’ve never seen the preparation, the coordination, the collaboration between the federal, state, and local government like I’ve seen prior to this event,” said Senator Burr. “I am grateful for the federal component as well as the state emergency management folks and first responders, their collaboration is what is so great about this state.” Click HERE to watch their remarks.
09.18.2018	09.18.18 IRS Issues Tax Relief for Hurricane Florence Victims WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has extended tax filing deadlines for North Carolina victims of Hurricane Florence, following the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Major Disaster Declaration. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statements in response: “As North Carolinians deal with Hurricane Florence’s devastating impact, it’s critical they have fast access to the Federal assistance they need and are entitled to,” said Senator Burr in a statement. “Providing tax relief for families and businesses in hard-hit areas, as the IRS did after Hurricane Matthew, is the right thing to do. And because the IRS is automatically applying the extensions to individuals in eligible areas, there won’t be another paperwork burden placed on folks who are struggling. I appreciate the swift response from the president, FEMA and the IRS.” “I want to thank the IRS for extending upcoming deadlines and providing tax relief to those affected by Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Tillis. “North Carolinians face a long road ahead as we work to recover from this storm, and authorizing filing and payment relief for residents and businesses will eliminate an unneeded stress during this difficult time.” Under the president’s Major Disaster Declaration, Hurricane Florence victims will have until January 31, 2019 to file some individual and business tax returns and payments. The IRS tax relief applies to individuals who have an IRS address in the following counties, which have been designated for individual assistance: Beaufort, Bladen, Brunswick, Carteret, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Duplin, Harnett, Jones, Lenoir, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, Pender, Robeson, Sampson and Wayne Counties. The IRS is continuing to monitor affected areas and may extend relief to additional counties. You can learn more about the tax filing extensions and eligibility here. You can find information about additional Federal aid and assistance at DisasterAssistance.gov or call 1-800-621-3362. You can find a list of State and Federal assistance options here.
09.18.2018	09.18.18 Senator Burr Commends Presidential Action on Biodefense WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Donald J. Trump released a National Security Presidential Memorandum directing the implementation of a National Biodefense Strategy to better protect Americans from biological threats. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “Biological threats, whether manmade or naturally occurring, pose a grave risk to our public health and our national security. I’m pleased to see the President take action to coordinate the federal government’s vast resources to prepare for and respond to potential biological threats, and I am confident Secretary Azar will work with his counterparts across the federal government to organize an effective team to do so. The efforts announced today will help take stock, look ahead, and unify our biodefense initiatives into a strong, nimble, and organized effort. I look forward to working with Secretary Azar to protect Americans some of nature’s most frightening weapons.” You can review the National Biodefense Strategy in full here. As a leader on biodefense policy, Senator Burr has also introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018. Read more about the bill here.
09.17.2018	09.17.18 Burr Applauds Senate Passage of Landmark Bill to Fight Opioid Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and the Senate Finance Committee, released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of H.R. 6, the Opioid Treatment and Recovery Act: “Today marks a significant step forward in the fight against the opioid crisis that has devastated families and communities across the country. Over the past seventeen years, more than 12,000 North Carolinians have died from an opioid overdose; in just the last year, overdose-related deaths increased by 13 percent. We must do more to reverse this deeply troubling trend. This bill supports key policies and programs within the Department of Health and Human Services to find new ways to treat and prevent addiction, strengthen existing efforts and further crack down on illicit trafficking. I want to thank each Chairman for their leadership on this critical public health issue, and I look forward to bringing this legislation to the president’s desk as soon as possible.”
09.14.2018	09.14.18 NC Congressional Delegation Requests Expedited Approval of Hurricane Florence Major Disaster Declaration WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s entire Congressional delegation, led by Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, sent a letter to President Trump requesting that the administration swiftly approve Governor Cooper’s request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration as Hurricane Florence brings historic flooding and destruction to counties across North Carolina. “The severity of damage and number of areas impacted is rapidly increasing and is forecast to worsen drastically in the coming days,” the members wrote. “Accordingly, we sincerely appreciate your timely consideration of this expedited Major Disaster Declaration request.” “Although the totality of devastation will continue to unfold, it is imperative that North Carolina has the resources now to begin the recovery process,” the members continued. “We again respectfully request you approve this Major Disaster Declaration consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act to allow our local and state officials, in coordination with federal partners, to begin rebuilding our great state.” Full text of the letter to the President is below. September 14, 2018 Dear Mr. President, As Members of Congress representing the people of North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Cooper's request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act for events occurring since September 14, 2018, and which are still occurring. The expedited Major Disaster Declaration is for both individual assistance and public assistance, including direct federal assistance for counties across North Carolina. Hurricane Florence has only begun to make landfall and has already inflicted tremendous damage across North Carolina’s coastal counties. The severity of damage and number of areas impacted is rapidly increasing and is forecast to worsen drastically in the coming days. Accordingly, we sincerely appreciate your timely consideration of this expedited Major Disaster Declaration request. Currently 76 counties have declared local states of emergency, 22 counties are under a hurricane warning with an additional 23 counties under tropical storm warnings. Due to evacuations, the state has already opened 131 shelters, housing over 6,900 residents. Additionally, 2,800 National Guardsmen have been activated and numerous search/rescue and high water rescue teams have been deployed. Although the totality of devastation will continue to unfold, it is imperative that North Carolina has the resources now to begin the recovery process. We thank you for granting our advanced emergency declaration request on September 10, 2018, and we commend your administration for its diligence and assistance thus far. We again respectfully request you approve this Major Disaster Declaration consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act to allow our local and state officials, in coordination with federal partners, to begin rebuilding our great state. Sincerely, Richard Burr Thom Tillis George Holding Richard Hudson Walter B. Jones David Rouzer Virginia Foxx David E. Price Mark Walker Alma Adams G.K. Butterfield Ted Budd Mark Meadows Patrick McHenry Robert Pittenger
09.12.2018	09.12.18 Burr: Executive Order Strengthens Response to Foreign Meddling in U.S. Elections WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement in response to President Trump signing an Executive Order authorizing sanctions against entities and individuals determined to have interfered in a U.S. election: “The Executive Order signed today by President Trump strengthens our ability to quickly and appropriately hold responsible anyone who interferes in our elections. It also sends a clear message that America can and will respond swiftly and decisively to Russia, Iran and any others who seek to undermine our free, fair and open elections.” In May, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released the first installment of its ongoing Russia investigation, which included recommendations for strengthening election security. You can read the recommendations here.
09.11.2018	09.11.18 Sen. Burr Urges North Carolinians to Take Hurricane Florence Threat Seriously WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today released the following statement on Hurricane Florence, which is expected to make landfall in North Carolina this week as a Category 4 hurricane: “Hurricane Florence threatens to be a serious and dangerous weather event for North Carolina. Our state has seen devastating natural disasters in recent years, and many communities are still recovering from previous storms. I want to thank President Trump for approving Governor Cooper’s request for an Emergency Declaration, which will help mobilize Federal assistance to support state and local response efforts. “Now is the time to prepare for the coming hurricane. Make sure you have emergency supplies in your home, including bottled water, battery-powered flashlights, phone chargers and extra cash. Have an emergency communications plan with your family, and know what the evacuation route is in your area. If a mandatory evacuation has been issued for your town, please comply and listen to local officials. “I urge all North Carolinians to take this threat seriously, and to stay safe over the coming week.” Background: Yesterday, Senator Burr, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and the entire North Carolina delegation sent a letter to President Trump urging him to approve the governor’s request for Emergency Declaration as the state prepares for the storm. “Hurricane Florence poses an imminent and dangerous threat to North Carolina and its approach necessitates the state to once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources,” the letter stated. “An Emergency Declaration will provide the needed assistance to the state and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Florence.” Last night, the president approved the request, declaring a state of emergency and authorizing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to coordinate disaster relief. North Carolinians can find a list of resources here. The list include links to the latest updates from state officials, weather forecasts, emergency preparedness checklists, shelter locations and how to report power outages.
09.10.2018	09.10.18 Hurricane Florence Resources and Updates for North Carolina Residents As Hurricane Florence approaches landfall as a Category 4 hurricane, a state of emergency has been declared for North Carolina. We encourage all residents to follow the advice of local officials, and comply with any evacuation recommendations and mandates. Additionally, you can find the Red Cross’ hurricane preparedness tips here. The following resources are available for statewide updates on the storm and emergency preparedness: NC Emergency Management: Follow NC Emergency Management on Twitter (@NCEmergency) for updates and statements from state and local officials. Get more updates by downloading the ReadyNC app, available along with more info on ReadyNC.org. FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency is monitoring the situation and providing information resources for residents on Twitter (@FEMARegion4) and on their website, FEMA.gov. They have shared a hurricane preparedness toolkit that you can find here. NOAA: The National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration is providing regional and county-specific weather updates at Weather.gov. On NOAA’s interactive map, click on your area to find the latest forecasts and advisories. The latest briefing information on the storm can be found here. American Red Cross: Find hurricane safety and preparedness tips on RedCross.org or follow the group on Twitter (@RedCross) or Facebook (Red Cross). You can find a list of open emergency evacuation shelters here. Duke Energy: Report any power outages by calling 800-228-8485, texting OUT to 57801 or vising duke-energy.com. You can also monitor updates on Twitter (@DukeEnergy) and Facebook (Duke Energy). NC Electric Cooperatives: Report a power outage in your county on the cooperatives’ website, NCElectricCooperatives.gov. Dominion Energy: Save their web address, DominionEnergy.com, to report any power outages in your area, or call 866-366-4357. We will continue updating with available resources as the storm progresses.
08.29.2018	08.29.18 ADVISORY: Senate Intel to Hold Open Hearing with Social Media Executives WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, announced the Committee will hold an open hearing on Wednesday, September 5, 2018 to examine social media companies’ responses to foreign influence operations on social media platforms. The hearing follows an August 1 open hearing that featured testimony from third-party social media experts. Hearing Details What: “Foreign Influence Operations and Their Use of Social Media Platforms” Witnesses: Mr. Jack Dorsey, Chief Executive Officer, Twitter Inc. Ms. Sheryl Sandberg, Chief Operating Officer, Facebook Mr. Larry Page, Chief Executive Office, Alphabet (Invited) When: Wednesday, September 5, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 50
08.25.2018	08.25.18 Senator Burr Statement on the Passing of Senator John McCain WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain (R-AZ): “I am deeply saddened by the passing of my friend and colleague, John McCain. John was a true patriot, who placed his duty to his family and his country above all else. He faced this battle, which would be his last, with the courage that defined his career and the grace that comes from a life well-lived. He will be remembered as he hoped to be remembered: as a man who served his country with honor. Brooke and I are grateful for his service, and send our prayers to Cindy and the entire McCain family.”
08.22.2018	08.22.18 Senator Burr Continues Call for Senate to Save the Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) upheld his promise to keep pressing the Senate to save the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Speaking on the Senate floor, he called for unanimous consent to open debate and vote on an amendment permanently reauthorizing the successful conservation program before it expires next month. “Today we are only 39 days out until the September 30th expiration, and I’m more committed than ever to getting LWCF reauthorization across the finish line,” Senator Burr said. “In 2015, it took expiration of LWCF before Congress got serious about reauthorizing the program and allowing these vital conservation efforts to continue. I am putting this body on notice that I will not allow that expiration to happen again.” In July, Senator Burr offered a similar amendment to an appropriations package and vowed to continue raising the issue until the Senate acted. The bill offered today included a bipartisan compromise that gives Congress the opportunity every three years to hold a vote of disapproval that would end authorization if passed. The programmatic reforms to LWCF offered in the bill were part of the bipartisan North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2016, which previously passed the Senate on a vote of 85-12. “I want to make a promise to all my [fellow] members: if I have to come down here and do this morning and afternoon, day after day after day, I’ll do it,” Senator Burr continued on the floor. “I’ve got enough iterations of the bill that I can accommodate anybody’s concerns that they have and find a way to get permanent authorization - not because I want it. It’s because the American people want it. It’s because the next generation deserves for us to do this. And for some unknown reason a small number of people won’t even allow a vote to happen.” WATCH: Senator Burr Speaks on the LWCF on Senate Floor
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Senate Intel Committee Statement on Testimony of Michael Cohen WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) released the following statement: “We have obviously followed today’s reporting about Michael Cohen with great interest. He appears to be pleading guilty to very serious charges, however, we have no insight into any agreements he and his legal team have allegedly reached with prosecutors in New York. “What we can say is that we recently reengaged with Mr. Cohen and his team following press reports that suggested he had advance knowledge of the June 2016 meeting between campaign officials and Russian lawyers at Trump Tower. Mr. Cohen had testified before the Committee that he was not aware of the meeting prior to its disclosure in the press last summer. As such, the Committee inquired of Mr. Cohen’s legal team as to whether Mr. Cohen stood by his testimony. They responded that he did stand by his testimony. “We hope that today’s developments and Mr. Cohen’s plea agreement will not preclude his appearance before our Committee as needed for our ongoing investigation.”
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Burr Statement on Facebook’s Identification of Additional Political Influence Pages WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement in response to Facebook’s announcement that it has identified and removed additional accounts involved in a coordinated political influence campaign: “This announcement reinforces what the Committee established in our recent, bipartisan hearing on the issue. Namely, that the goal of these foreign social media campaigns is to sow discord, that Russia is not the only hostile foreign actor developing this capability, and that addressing this threat requires technology companies, law enforcement, Congress, and the Intelligence Community working together. There is still much that needs to be done and I look forward to discussing it further at the Committee’s September 5th hearing.”
08.16.2018	08.16.18 Statement from Senate Intel Chairman Richard Burr on Comments by Former CIA Director John Brennan WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement on comments made in The New York Times by former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) John Brennan: “Director Brennan’s recent statements purport to know as fact that the Trump campaign colluded with a foreign power. If Director Brennan’s statement is based on intelligence he received while still leading the CIA, why didn’t he include it in the Intelligence Community Assessment released in 2017? If his statement is based on intelligence he has seen since leaving office, it constitutes an intelligence breach. If he has some other personal knowledge of or evidence of collusion, it should be disclosed to the Special Counsel, not The New York Times. “If, however, Director Brennan’s statement is purely political and based on conjecture, the president has full authority to revoke his security clearance as head of the Executive Branch.”
08.02.2018	08.02.18 Burr Leads Bipartisan Group Urging Senate Leadership to Reauthorize LWCF WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) led a bipartisan group of Senators in a letter urging the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) before its expiration on September 30, 2018. “The LWCF is one of the country’s best conservation programs, preserving public lands and ensuring access to outdoor recreation in rural and urban areas,” the letter states. “For the last half century, it has protected lands, historic sites, national parks, wilderness areas, and urban parks in every state… It is critical that this program be reauthorized before its expiration on September 30, 2018.” The LWCF has supported more than 42,000 state and local projects in communities across the country. The program is funded by a portion of federal oil and gas royalties, operating without any taxpayer funding. However, according to the letter, since its founding in 1965 more than $21 billion has been diverted from the LWCF trust fund to other purposes. “For the economy, sportsmen, veterans, wildlife, and our kids and grandkids, we must permanently reauthorize LWCF,” the letter continues. “We also strongly request that you include mandatory full funding in any LWCF reauthorization package. We look forward to working with you to resolve this pressing issue.” The following Senators signed on to the letter, which you can view here: Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) Senator Tom Udall (D-UT) Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN) Senator Angus King (I-ME) Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM) ###
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Burr Votes in Favor of Service Members, North Carolina Bases in Bipartisan Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement regarding the Senate’s passage by a vote of 87-10 of the Conference Report on the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019, H.R. 5515: “The National Defense Authorization Act ensures those who volunteer to defend our nation have the tools and resources necessary to do their jobs and I’m pleased to vote in favor of this critical funding measure,” said Senator Burr. “I was glad to see this bill included a provision I introduced with Senator Murray to begin a pilot program for Special Operations Command (SOCOM) medics to become Physician Assistants in their post-military career more easily. The SOCOM medic pilot program will use operational experience of special operators, along with academic partnerships across the nation, to shorten the certification time from two years to five months. This bill also authorizes several hundred million dollars for multiple North Carolina military installations such as Fort Bragg, Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point and New River. I look forward to seeing the NDAA signed into law soon.”
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Statement from Senators Burr, Warner Following Senate Intel Social Media Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) convened an open hearing on foreign influence operations and their use of social media platforms, featuring the testimony of third-party social media experts. “Today, we learned that foreign campaigns to sow discord and disinformation through social media began well before the 2016 U.S. elections and continue to this day,” said Senator Burr following the hearing. “The Kremlin began testing this capability in Russia years before using it against the United States and our allies. Their aim is to use American freedoms, values and rights against our society and to undermine faith in our democratic process. Their mistake is believing our rights are a weakness, when in fact they are our strength. The task before us is preserving those rights, including the right to free speech, while defending them against a hostile foreign power. The Senate Intelligence Committee is uniquely positioned to foster this critical conversation between the intelligence community, Congress and technology leaders, and we will continue pursuing this question over the coming months.” “Russian information warfare in the 2016 election has helped to reveal the dark underbelly of social media,” said Senator Warner. “The same tools that so successfully spread disinformation in 2016 can be used to negatively affect our lives in countless ways. This Committee’s investigation and actions to date have helped pressure the social media companies to admit the problem and begin to take steps to address the threat on their platforms; however, as we heard today, they still have a lot of work to do. I hope the leadership from Google, Facebook, and Twitter will take this seriously and come prepared with ideas for how they will better protect our democratic processes moving forward.” Today’s expert panel was comprised of Dr. Todd Helmus, Senior Behavioral Scientist at RAND Corporation, Renee DiResta, Director of Research at New Knowledge, Dr. John Kelly, Founder and CEO of Graphika, Laura Rosenberger, Director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy at The German Marshall Fund of the United States and Philip Howard, Director of the Oxford Internet Institute. You can watch the hearing here. You can view the exhibits shared by the Committee during the hearing here.
07.31.2018	07.31.18 Burr Statement on Facebook’s Identification of Political Influence Campaign WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement in response to Facebook’s announcement that it has identified and removed accounts involved in a political influence campaign: “I am glad to see that Facebook is taking a much-needed step toward limiting the use of their platform by foreign influence campaigns. The goal of these operations is to sow discord, distrust, and division in an attempt to undermine public faith in our institutions and our political system. The Russians want a weak America. There is still much that needs to be done to prevent and counter foreign interference on social media, however, and I look forward to discussing the issue further at tomorrow’s Senate Intelligence Committee hearing.” Tomorrow, Wednesday, August 1st at 9:30 a.m., the Committee will hold an open hearing titled, “Foreign Influence on Social Media Platforms: Perspectives from Third-Party Social Media Experts.” The hearing will be livestreamed here.
07.27.2018	07.27.18 ADVISORY: Senate Intel Announces Open Hearing with Social Media Experts on Foreign Influence Operations WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, announced the Committee will hold an open hearing on Wednesday, August 1, 2018, to examine foreign influence operations and their use of social media platforms. The Committee will hear testimony from third-party social media experts (additional witnesses may be added). Hearing Details What: “Foreign Influence on Social Media Platforms: Perspectives from Third-Party Social Media Experts” Witnesses: · Ms. Renee DiResta, Director of Research, New Knowledge · Dr. Philip Howard, Director, Oxford Internet Institute · Ms. Laura Rosenberger, Director, Alliance for Securing Democracy at The German Marshall Fund of the United States Mr. John Kelly, Founder and CEO, Graphika Dr. Todd Helmus, Senior Behavioral Scientist, RAND Corporation When: Wednesday, August 1, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
07.27.2018	07.27.18 Senator Burr Honors Life of Former UNC President C.D. “Dick” Spangler WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor to remember and honor the life of Clemmie Dixon “Dick” Spangler, Jr., native North Carolinian and the beloved former President of the University of North Carolina system: “I rise today to honor and to celebrate the life of C.D. ‘Dick' Spangler, a great North Carolinian who passed away this week. The true mark of a great man, a great contributor to our society is the fact that there's several acts in that individual's life. There's no one single attribute to which to ascribe the contribution and Dick Spangler was such a man. In that first act, Dick built an impressive wealth at the time making him one of the wealthiest individuals in this country. “The family construction business, the real estate business, the son of a Charlotte contractor and real estate investor. Dick attended Woodbury Forest, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill and the Harvard Business School. After serving two years in the Army, he moved back to his native North Carolina to work at the family business, C.D. Spangler construction. 1973 while continuing to serve in the family's construction company, Dick became the chairman of a little bank at the time, the Bank of North Carolina. Subsequently elected a Director of NCNB, which would eventually be sold to Bank of America. “Although he was a brilliant businessman, in my mind Dick Spangler will best be remembered in our state for his commitment to education and what it means for lifting individuals out of poverty, giving them a path for learning, and expressing their individuality. He did this by advocating for a return to the emphasis on teaching the basics, higher salaries for teachers, programs for training high school principals for a very challenging job. “The second act in the energies and personal contributions he made to it are what made Dick the remarkable man he was. During his time as President of the University of North Carolina system, a position he held for over a decade, Dick was laser focused on keeping North Carolina’s public university system affordable and low cost for all seeking post-secondary education. “It's because of his dedication so many years ago to low-cost tuition in the UNC system, a mission he pursued without a paycheck during his time as President, that current North Carolinians today receive an affordable great university education. “Dick Spangler once said and I quote, ‘low tuition is not a gift. It's an investment in these students and they go to work and they pay that back over a lifetime.’ The number of individuals who have chosen to do just that by making North Carolina their home after graduating from one of the UNC system's great schools is a testament to that effort. “He viewed leading the UNC system as one of the truly great jobs anyone could have. On the eve of his departure, he said when talking about the UNC system, ‘We're on the side of angels, spending time with our students. To be with them is one of the great joys a person could experience. I live in a community that is vibrant, not asleep. It's wide awake and there's always turmoil because people are bright with viewpoints sometimes in conflict.’ “But for those who know the Spangler family and Dick's commitment to the state, I’ll always remember Dick for his philanthropy and the commitment to bettering our state through his personal efforts and his personal giving. The C.D. Spangler foundation dedicated hundreds of millions of dollars over the past several decades to better public education in our state. “Through this work over 120 distinguished professorships, proposed towards improving instruction in our public education were funded, providing generations of North Carolinians with the benefit of quality education. For those unfamiliar with the racial history of North Carolina schools, Dick Spangler was prompted by Swain v. Charlotte Mecklenburg schools, that seminal supreme court decision which said it wasn't enough to simply say desegregation of public schools was the law of the land, towns needed to commit to it and follow through on educating minorities next to their white peers. “It's no exaggeration to say without Dick's leadership in Charlotte during the 1970's and 1980's, racial desegregation of Charlotte schools might not have happened the way that it did. Serving as a national model for other communities grappling with racial tensions in their schools. “Dick was so adamant about the fact that he decided not just to put his tremendous personal wealth to work but he put his time on earth to work as well. He ran to become vice chairman of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg schools in an effort to ease the racial tensions that existed at the time in Charlotte, North Carolina. “Although he could have afforded to send his children to private school, he chose to lead by example and sent them to Charlotte Public Schools to prove what is obvious to us now but was seemingly so controversial at the time. “Madam President, when I hear Dick Spangler’s name, there's words I think of. Honest. He was never questioned about his honesty. Passion. Dick Spangler was committed to every effort that he joined into and he never sold it short. Opinionated. He made you listen, whether you wanted to hear it or not. Fair. He never let his wealth influence his outcome. Daring. He took on things that other people ran the opposite way from. “Demanding. I'm not sure that I’ve been in many meeting with an individual that controlled your attention like Dick Spangler did, because he saw time as a precious thing, and he knew that we were limited on the amount that we would be here to use it. Dick Spangler used every minute of his life to make our state and this country better. “Last one -- Dick Spangler was committed. He was committed to this country, he was committed to the state. He loved his UNC Tar Heels. And, more importantly, he loved his family. His leading by example rather than simply words will remain in my mind as we mourn and celebrate the loss of a great man. “Today I would like to extend my condolences and deep appreciation to his wife of 58 years, Meredith, to Abigail, to Anna, to Tom, to the extended family. Their loss is not only our state's loss, but our country's loss. I can feel confident, as I think Dick Spangler does today in heaven, that Dick did everything he could to set the example for every generation to come that you have to invest something to get something. And I, for one, am moved, inspired, and committed to live on that commitment.” You can watch Senator Burr’s remarks here.
07.26.2018	07.26.18 Senators Honor Intelligence Professionals for Service to Nation WASHINGTON – The Senate Intelligence Committee is honoring the courage and dedication of the men and women of the U.S. intelligence community by introducing a bipartisan resolution designating today, July 26, 2018, as “United States Intelligence Professionals Day.” A Senate resolution thanking intelligence officers, past and present, for their service and professionalism in protecting the United States was introduced by U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and co-sponsored by every member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. Today is the 71st anniversary of President Truman signing the National Security Act of 1947, which laid the foundation for today’s intelligence community and continues to govern its activities. “As Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I have had the opportunity to meet many of the brave men and women of the United States Intelligence Community, and understand the enormous sacrifice they make on behalf of our nation. Every day, intelligence professionals risk their lives to keep our homeland safe. They do so without public acknowledgment, credit, or thanks, but with the knowledge that their work is vital for America’s national security,” said Chairman Burr. “While much of their work must always go unrecognized, today we thank them for their service and express our support for their efforts.” “The men and women of the Intelligence Community work tirelessly and quietly, often risking their lives in defense of our nation. We rarely hear about their successes or their sacrifices, but the Senate Intelligence Committee sees the results of their hard work firsthand,” said Vice Chairman Warner. “Today is a rare opportunity to recognize these quiet heroes, and thank them for their sacrifice. They deserve not only our respect, but our gratitude.” “I’ve served on the Intelligence Committee since 2001, a position that has allowed me to foster a deep sense of respect and appreciation for the work done by all the men and women of the intelligence community. These individuals are often nameless and faceless, but the work they do and the dedication they exhibit helps keep us safe, and for that I thank them,” Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) said. “The country does not know much about our intelligence community’s activities, by necessity, of course, but we all owe them a debt of gratitude for their work defending our national security and all Americans,” said Senator Jim Risch (R-ID). “I join my colleagues today in pausing to recognize these patriots.” “Every day, across our nation and around the world, the hard working men and women serving in the Intelligence Community make countless sacrifices to ensure the safety of our country and our citizens. I am consistently impressed by the high level of professionalism, patriotism, and courage that our intelligence professionals exhibit,” Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) said. “Our resolution will ensure that these Americans, who must operate in the shadows, receive well-deserved recognition for their public service.” “Our nation's intelligence professionals are dedicated, patriotic men and women who make real sacrifices to help keep our country safe and free. I am proud to recognize them for their public service,” said Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM). “Intelligence professionals provide the critical information decision makers rely on to keep Americans safe,” said Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO). “We’ll always be grateful for their dedication and the sacrifices they make every day to protect our country.” “We live in a dangerous world, and America’s intelligence professionals are our first line of defense. These men and women are patriots who don’t serve any party or any individual – they serve the people of the United States of America. Their hard work and commitment to protecting our citizens deserves nothing less than our utmost gratitude,” said Senator Angus King (I-ME). “Our intelligence community works tirelessly every day to keep America safe. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I recognize the commitment of our intelligence professionals. Most of them work in anonymity, so this is a small way for us to publically recognize them and the critical work they do to protect all of us,” said Senator James Lankford (R-OK). “The brave men and women in our intelligence community selflessly serve our country in the shadows, most of the time with little recognition. This resolution aims to make up for that fact and recognize their service and commitment to protecting our country and our interests abroad. Their work is essential to the safety of the United States and has prevented tragedies, protected individuals and executed missions with the utmost professionalism and we all thank them for their sacrifice,” Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) said. “The work our intelligence professionals do to help us understand the threats we face as a nation is essential. Theirs can often be a thankless job, and today we recognize them for their service and patriotism,” Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) said. “The brave men and women of our Intelligence Community do important work critical to keep our nation safe and secure often without any recognition or acknowledgment,” said Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA). “Their service, sacrifice and utmost professionalism must never be taken for granted, and so I’m proud to honor their work today and the contributions they make to our nation.” The full text of the resolution is available here. ###
07.26.2018	07.26.18 Senator Burr Calls on Senate to Allow LWCF Reauthorization Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) urged the Senate to allow a vote on the permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), and pledged to continue bringing the issue up for consideration. “I’ve tried since the beginning of this Congress to bring this legislation up,” Senator Burr said in a floor speech. “I’ve only asked for an up or down vote at a 60 vote threshold. I’m not trying to short the process in the United States Senate by one vote. I’m not trying to piggyback and hide behind something. I just want the members of the United State Senate to actually have an opportunity to debate this, and to have a vote.” The LWCF is America’s most successful conservation program, and is funded at no expense to taxpayers. An amendment with bipartisan support was introduced this week to reauthorize the LWCF before it expires on September 30, 2018, and Senator Burr has previously introduced S. 896 to permanently reauthorize the popular program. WATCH: Senator Burr Speaks on the LWCF on Senate Floor Excerpt from Senator Burr’s speech: “Here’s the only promise I can make to my colleagues today: you’re going to have an opportunity to vote on this time, and time, and time again. “As long as the Senate goes into session, if we intend to move legislation, you will have an opportunity to vote on Land and Water Fund Conservation reauthorization. When this floor opens, I will come down here. And I will not encumber the appropriations chairman in every case; I’ll probably pull every chairman into this. “… Because sometimes we get [more] hung up on the power of one person in this institution than we do about the importance of what it is we’re doing. Well, if that’s what we’re doing to do, I’ll come down as one person, and I’ll ask unanimous consent that we consider the reauthorization. “And I’m sure that somebody will stand up and object - they always do. But they’re objecting to what the American people want us to do. They’re objecting to a program that has a proven track record of success, and requires zero, not a dime of taxpayer money. “If there is ever a thing that we have presented to the American people that we should be applauded on, and that doesn’t happen often, this is one of them. But because we’ve chosen convenience over debate, because we’re trying to fit this in a real small box, let me suggest to my colleagues [that] we’re making a foolish mistake for long-term in this institution. “This is an institution that was created for this moment. It was an institution that was created so we could come to this floor and we could debate.”
07.20.2018	07.20.18 ADVISORY: Senate Intel to Hold Open Confirmation Hearing on Two Key Intel Positions WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) announced today that the Committee will hold an open confirmation hearing on Wednesday, July 25th on the nominations of two officials to key intelligence positions in the Administration. Vice Admiral Joseph Maguire, USN (Ret.) has been nominated to serve as the Director of the National Counterterrorism Center and Ellen E. McCarthy has been nominated to serve as an Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research. Hearing Details What: “Nominations of Vice Admiral Joseph Maguire, USN (Ret.) to the National Counterterrorism Center and Ellen E. McCarthy to the U.S. Department of State” Witnesses: Vice Admiral Joseph Maguire, USN (Ret.) Ellen E. McCarthy When: Wednesday, July 25, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
07.18.2018	07.18.18 Senator Burr Introduces N.C. Advocate at Hearing on Self-Sufficiency for Americans with Disabilities WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced Benjamin Wright, a father, small business owner and advocate from Wilmington, N.C, at a Senate Aging Committee hearing titled, “Supporting Economic Stability and Self-Sufficiency as Americans with Disabilities and their Families Age.” Ben and his wife, Amy, opened Bitty & Beau’s Coffee in 2016, named after their two youngest children who have Down syndrome. Today, Bitty & Beau’s employs more than 70 adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities across three locations. Mr. and Mrs. Wright were named one of CNN’s Top 10 Heroes of the Year in 2017. Mr. Wright spoke to the Committee about the importance of reducing the stigma that prevents employers from hiring Americans with disabilities. Senator Burr was the lead author of the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, signed into law in 2014, which allows families who have a child with a disability to save for their long-term care through tax-preferred savings accounts. In December 2017, several provisions were included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to improve upon the ABLE Act. These improvements allow disabled Americans who work and earn income to contribute more to their ABLE account and allow savings in 529 college saving plans to be rolled over into ABLE accounts. WATCH: Senator Burr Introduces Bitty & Beau’s Coffee Owner Ben Wright Excerpts from Senator Burr’s Introduction: “Some have called the ABLE Act the most significant piece of legislation affecting the disabled since the passage of the American Disability Act almost 30 years ago. Senator [Bob] Casey and I got involved in an effort to pass ABLE over 10 years ago. This has been one of the toughest pieces of legislation that made the most common sense of anything I have tackled in the time I have been here. “The amount of families that are impacted - not just parents; grandparents, relatives - who can now have the comfort of knowing that a child that has a fruitful life in front of them also has the security, the nest egg, to make sure they have whatever they need regardless of what they run into. “…Ben continues to raise awareness and educate families on the benefits of opening an [ABLE] account. I think it’s safe to say that the ABLE Act has begun to change the way we think of federal benefits for Americans with disabilities, just as Ben and his wife have begun to change the way people view Americans with disabilities.” Excerpts from Senator Burr’s Questioning: “I think we’ve learned a lot today. We’ve learned the majority of those with disabilities really want to work, but for decades for some of them they’ve been penalized to do it. But now we’re beginning to change that stigma. “…It’s amazing to me that with a high school counselor every student graduating knows about the student loan program, but every disabled student in that school probably isn’t told about an ABLE account. “… When I leave this institution and am asked what was the most important legislation you did in your congressional career, I don’t think there’s any question, in my case it would be the ABLE Act… It affects the folks that had the least amount of voice, and it’s the community really that can be benefitted for life in what we do.”
07.16.2018	07.16.18 Senate Intel Chairman Richard Burr on Trump-Putin Summit WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today released the following statement: “The Senate Intelligence Committee has reviewed the 2017 IC assessment and found no reason to doubt its conclusion that President Putin ordered an influence campaign aimed at the 2016 U.S. elections with the goal of undermining faith in our democratic process. Russia has conducted a coordinated cyberattack on state election systems, and hacked critical infrastructure. They have used social media to sow chaos and discord in our society. They have beaten and harassed U.S. diplomats and violated anti-proliferation treaties. Any statement by Vladimir Putin contrary to these facts is a lie and should be recognized as one by the President. “Vladimir Putin is not our friend and never has been. Nor does he want to be our friend. His regime’s actions prove it. We must make clear that the United States will not tolerate hostile Russian activities against us or our allies.”
07.12.2018	07.12.18 Burr, Republican Senators Reintroduce Bill to Hold Senior IRS Officials Accountable WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the IRS Accountability Act of 2018, which gives the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner clear authority to fire senior officials for misconduct or poor performance. This legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Dean Heller (R-IV), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Tim Scott (R-SC) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). In a statement, Senator Burr said, “In most workplaces in America, failing to do your job means you lose your job - plain and simple. However, that isn’t always the case in the federal government, where misconduct is protected by lines of red tape. This bill allows the IRS Commissioner to hold high-level employees in the Senior Executive Service (SES) accountable by clarifying that the Commissioner has the ability to fire officials for failure in their performance or for committing serious misconduct. After egregious scandals, like the inappropriate targeting of conservatives by the IRS, holding top officials responsible for their job performance is long overdue. With this bill, we can begin to restore the public’s trust in the competence and conduct of the federal workforce.” “Accountability is key for a well-functioning and responsible federal government,” said Senator Grassley. “When federal employees engage in wrongdoing, cannot meet professional expectations or fail to fulfill the responsibilities of their job, taxpayers should not be on the hook financially. This bill is a signal to the American people that Congress takes its oversight responsibilities seriously and is working on their behalf, rather than working to protect unelected bureaucrats.” “Nevadans work hard for their paychecks and they deserve to know that Washington D.C. bureaucrats will be held accountable if they’re not doing their jobs,” said Senator Heller. “In order to increase transparency and restore the public’s trust that was lost under the previous Administration, it is important that senior IRS officials are held responsible for their job performance and serious misconduct. Our legislation makes sure of it, and I will work with my colleagues to send it to the President’s desk.” “It is important that we can hold employees of the IRS accountable for their actions no matter how high up the chain of command they are. Misconduct is misconduct, and having the status of senior executive should not allow anyone to escape responsibility,” Senator Enzi said. “This legislation is about helping provide accountability and restoring trust in the IRS to the American people.” “As a former small business owner, I know employees across the country give their all every day to support their families, and the same should certainly be expected in the federal government,” said Senator Scott. “The IRS Accountability Act, of which I am an original cosponsor, ensures that the IRS functions like the rest of American offices—if you fail to properly execute your duties, you’re out. Furthermore, it allows the IRS Commissioner to discharge any and all high-level employees, including Senior Executive Service (SES), when they don’t meet expectations. We need to rebuild the trust Americans have lost in the their government.” “The best thing we can do across our federal government is root out the abusive or corrosive behavior of bureaucrats who know how to game the system. Congress is taking on obstructionist bureaucracy and addressing the problems we’ve seen at the IRS,” said Senator Isakson. “I’m in favor of any steps we can take to reduce waste, fraud and abuse and hold bad government employees accountable for their misdeeds. This commonsense measure will begin to fix a problem that should never have been allowed.” Background: The IRS Accountability Act of 2018 clarifies that the IRS Commissioner has the power to fire senior executives who have failed in their performance or committed serious misconduct. It is based on a law Congress passed in 2014 with broad bipartisan support that gave the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the authority to fire senior executives for misconduct. The provision applies to the highest ranking IRS employees in the Senior Executive Service (SES), and allows the Commissioner to terminate employees for misconduct already deemed severable offenses under the IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998. Such offenses include threatening to audit someone for personal gain, conducting a seizure without approval, assaulting, harassing or violating the civil rights of a taxpayer or a coworker, lying under oath, falsifying or destroying records, concealing information from Congress, underreporting income and failing to file a tax return on time. Text of the bill can be found here.
07.09.2018	07.09.18 Burr Statement on President Trump’s Nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today released the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court of the United States: “In nominating Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, President Trump has put forth a highly qualified and respected candidate committed to the rule of law. Judge Kavanaugh’s credentials are impeccable, and as a judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit he has considered many of the most pressing legal questions of our time. The Senate’s Constitutional charge is to provide its advice and consent to the President on his nominee to fill this vacancy. I am confident we will fulfill that responsibility fairly and promptly to ensure a complete and qualified Supreme Court.”
07.03.2018	07.03.18 Intel Committee Releases Unclassified Summary of Initial Findings on 2017 Intelligence Community Assessment WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) released the Committee’s unclassified summary of its initial findings on the Intelligence Community Assessment (ICA) on Russian activities in the 2016 U.S. elections. The Committee finds that the overall judgments issued in the ICA were well-supported and the tradecraft was strong. The course of the Committee’s investigation has shown that the Russian cyber operations were more extensive than the hack of the Democratic National Committee and continued well through the 2016 election. “The Committee has spent the last 16 months reviewing the sources, tradecraft and analytic work underpinning the Intelligence Community Assessment and sees no reason to dispute the conclusions,” said Chairman Burr. “The Committee continues its investigation and I am hopeful that this installment of the Committee’s work will soon be followed by additional summaries providing the American people with clarity around Russia’s activities regarding U.S. elections.” “Our investigation thoroughly reviewed all aspects of the January 2017 ICA, which assessed that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign to target our presidential election and to destabilize our democratic institutions,” said Vice Chairman Warner. “As numerous intelligence and national security officials in the Trump administration have since unanimously re-affirmed, the ICA findings were accurate and on point. The Russian effort was extensive and sophisticated, and its goals were to undermine public faith in the democratic process, to hurt Secretary Clinton and to help Donald Trump. While our investigation remains ongoing, we have to learn from 2016 and do more to protect ourselves from attacks in 2018 and beyond.” The summary is the second unclassified installment in the Committee’s report on Russian election activities. The Committee held a closed door hearing in May to review the ICA on “Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections.” Members heard testimony from former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency John Brennan and former Director of the National Security Agency Mike Rogers, which informed the Committee’s report. You can read a copy of the unclassified summary here. ###
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Bipartisan Senators Introduce Law to Improve Intercountry Adoption Information Reporting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced the Intercountry Adoption Information Act of 2018 which would help remove information barriers Americans frequently face while seeking to adopt children from other countries. The bipartisan legislation is co-sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH). “American families trying to adopt a child from abroad should have robust and relevant information needed to navigate the adoption landscape,” said Senator Burr in a statement. “This bill will help remove some of the frequent informational challenges families face when trying to learn the status of intercountry adoption policies. It will also shine a light on unnecessary and detrimental barriers some countries have put up to thwart adoptions, and require the State Department to provide information on what they are doing to address those barriers. I hope the Senate will work to pass this commonsense legislation as soon as possible.” “It’s disappointing that certain countries have enacted restrictive adoption policies that deny children the opportunity to grow up in a safe, loving home,” said Senator Blunt. “By providing parents with information on the status of adoption policies, they’ll have an important resource to help them navigate the complicated process of intercountry adoption. In addition, the information required will aid our ability in Congress to support diplomatic efforts and help assist families. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and, as co-chair of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, I’ll continue working to promote policies that make it easier for families to open their homes to a child in need.” “Over the years I have heard from numerous Maryland families and adoption groups who rightly complain that the lack or quality of access to information on foreign adoptions adds confusion and frustration to what should be a deeply personal and meaningful process,” Senator Cardin said. “We should be making it easier, not more difficult, for Americans to receive all the necessary information to make a real difference in a child’s life and enrich their families in the process. I’m proud to cosponsor this bipartisan legislation.” “Families adopting children from abroad display the generosity, compassion, and heart of the American people,” Senator Wicker said. “I am proud to join my Senate colleagues on this meaningful legislation, which would make it easier for these families to navigate the international adoption process and welcome children in need into a forever home.” “We need to make sure Ohioans have access to all the information they need to build their families and provide loving, stable homes for children,” Senator Brown said. “I urge my colleagues in Congress to support this legislation to help people navigate this complicated process.” Background: Currently, the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000 (IAA), requires the U.S. State Department to provide an annual report on intercountry adoptions, delivered to the House Committees on International Relations, Ways and Means and Judiciary, as well as the Senate Committees on Foreign Relations, Finance and Judiciary. A copy is also made publicly available online. The report includes information on topics such as the number of intercountry adoptions involving immigration to the United States and the country from which each child immigrates, the time required for completion of an adoption and information on adoption agencies. The Intercountry Adoption Information Act would amend the IAA to require the State Department provide additional information on: All countries that have enacted policies to prevent or prohibit adoptions to the United States; Actions the State Department has taken which have prevented adoptions to the United States; How the State Department has worked to encourage the resuming of adoption in both cases. This information is critical for American families looking to adopt from countries that have established barriers to adoption, such as Russia or Ethiopia, or areas where the State Department has suspended intercountry adoption, as of abandoned children in Nepal. Text of the bill can be found here.
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Sen. Burr Statement on Retirement of Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today released the following statement on the retirement of Justice Anthony Kennedy from the U.S. Supreme Court: “As the longest serving member of the current Supreme Court, Justice Kennedy has played a defining role in shaping our modern legal framework. I want to thank him for his 43 years of service on the federal bench, and wish him and his family a long and happy retirement. “The Senate will now do its job by considering and voting to confirm the President’s nominee to fill this vacancy. It is imperative that we maintain a Supreme Court committed to upholding the Constitution and to interpreting our laws as they are written.”
06.26.2018	06.26.18 Senate Intel Committee Passes 2019 Intelligence Authorization Act Unanimously WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) announced the Committee approved the Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act (IAA) for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019 by a unanimous bipartisan vote of 15-0. The bill authorizes funding, provides appropriate legal authorities and enhances Congressional oversight for the U.S. Intelligence Community. It is named after Matt Pollard, a dedicated Committee staffer who passed away in April. “The 2019 Intelligence Authorization Act represents a bipartisan effort to enhance America’s national security and increase government efficiency,” said Chairman Burr. “With ever-increasing threats from China, Russia, Iran and North Korea, we recognize that the Intelligence Community (IC) must have the resources, authorities and personnel necessary to keep America safe, while still remaining accountable to Congress for their efforts and expenditures. New security clearance reforms included in this bill will help deter insider threats, protect classified information and ensure the IC has a capable, agile workforce. Lastly, in the wake of foreign efforts to interfere with the 2016 U.S. elections, which this Committee continues to investigate, I am pleased to see this bill contains comprehensive measures to enhance our election security. It is vital that we ensure our voting process remains fair and free from undue influence.” “It is important that the full Senate take up and pass this bipartisan legislation, so that the men and women of the Intelligence Community (IC) have the resources they need to do their jobs and keep us safe,” said Vice Chairman Warner. “This legislation includes a number of important provisions to modernize our antiquated security clearance process and reduce the 700,000-person security clearance backlog. It also includes my provision requiring the Director of National Intelligence to report on the IC’s outreach to U.S. businesses and other nongovernment entities on efforts by adversaries such as China to acquire technology, intellectual property and R&D. The bill continues initiatives this Committee has undertaken on a bipartisan basis to push the IC to foster innovation in its approach to overhead satellite systems. Finally, as we approach the 2018 elections, the bill includes important measures to protect U.S. federal and state election systems – including from Russian threats – and to improve information sharing with states to ensure the integrity of the election process.” Background: The 2019 IAA includes provisions that will help: Deter and counter aggression from foreign state actors, such as Russia and China, both at home and abroad; Protect the U.S. government’s supply chain from sabotage and counterintelligence threats; Improve our security clearance process to make the Intelligence Community more robust, skilled, and agile; Institute reforms for science, technology, engineering or mathematic (STEM) recruitment and retention in Intelligence Community positions, such as cybersecurity experts; and Enhance election security to protect our voting process from foreign intelligence threats and efforts to influence the election process. In May 2018, the Committee released the first installment in its Russia report, which provided recommendations to improve U.S. election security in the face of interference from foreign actors. Among the Committee’s recommendations to address ongoing vulnerabilities were creating effective deterrence, improving information sharing on threats and securing election-related systems. A summary of the Committee’s findings can be found here. Last week, the Committee held a hearing to examine the policy response to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. Michael Daniel, former Special Assistant to the President and Cyber Security Coordinator under President Obama, testified that it is “highly likely” Russian actors scanned election systems in all 50 states for vulnerabilities. He also told the Committee that the U.S. should expect and be prepared to combat continued attempts at election interference. You can watch the hearing here.
06.26.2018	06.26.18 Senate Education Panel Approves Career & Technical Education Bill Renewal WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today released the following statement regarding the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee’s unanimous vote to reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act: “Our economy is enjoying a record high number of available jobs and record low unemployment. Americans should have the tools and training they need to take advantage of these new opportunities. The Perkins Act historically partners with states and local educational authorities to train people preparing for their careers or transitioning into new, high-growth industries that drive our economy. I’m encouraged to see this reauthorization includes a provision I’ve championed to eliminate an unfair funding formula that punishes high-growth population states, like North Carolina. This bill fixes the formula to properly reflect the needs of states that have recently experienced a massive population shift. It also encourages state and local authorities to assume more responsibility and offer more input, so we’re providing training and teaching that meets real needs on the ground. I look forward to the Senate’s passage of this important legislation as soon as possible.” The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act is the primary federal program that supports career and technical skill development in our nation’s high schools, colleges and universities. The program provides roughly $1.2 billion in grant assistance to career and technical training curriculums. ###
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Burr Statement on Family Separations at the U.S. Border WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “The president is enforcing a longstanding law that requires adults crossing the border illegally face criminal penalties. The previous Administration ignored the law, and as a result family border crossings increased by 400 percent in President Obama’s last three years in office. The fact is that any changes to current law must be made by Congress. I am open and willing to consider any legislative proposals with bipartisan support that resolve the issue of family separation while securing our border.”
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Burr Statement on H.R. 3, the Rescissions Package WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today issued the following statement: “Today’s vote was about keeping our promises. Funded exclusively by royalties, the Land and Water Conservation Fund costs taxpayers nothing and benefits them entirely. It was never meant to be a piggy bank. “I urge my colleagues to support the great work carried out by the LWCF - not just for Americans today, but for future generations.” Background: The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) is one of the nation’s oldest and most successful conservation programs, which operates with no taxpayer funding. This vital program expires on September 30, 2018. The rescissions package, H.R. 3, would have cut $16 million already promised to specific LWCF programs. Sen. Burr introduced an amendment to strike the provision and protect existing LWCF funding. Earlier today, Sen. Burr joined a bipartisan group of Senators and conservation leaders at a press conference to urge Congress to permanently reauthorize the LWCF. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Cory Gardener (R-CO) and Jon Tester (D-MT) also participated in the press conference. Sen. Burr has introduced S. 896, a bill to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and Representative Raul Grijalva (D-AZ-3) has introduced similar legislation in the House.
06.18.2018	06.18.18 Burr Praises North Carolina Commitments in Annual Defense Spending Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement regarding the Senate’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2019, H.R. 5515: “Today, I voted in favor of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, which makes sure our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to protect our national defense. This bill authorizes $367 million in funding for several North Carolina military installations, including Fort Bragg, Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point and New River. I was also glad to see this bill includes a provision I introduced with Senator Murray to expand an already successful military medic program between the Army’s Special Operations Command, the Carolinas Healthcare System, and Wake Forest University. The SOCOM Medic Program effectively shortens the time of post-military Physician Assistants’ certification from 2 years to 5 months, using their operational experience and an academic fellowship while still on active duty. The provision passed today will expand the program nationwide to states with a special operations command presence and appropriate medical schools and healthcare systems.”
06.18.2018	06.18.18 ADVISORY: Bipartisan Congressional, Conservation Leaders to Launch 100-Day #SaveLWCF Campaign WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Michael Bennett (D-CO) and Jon Tester (D-MT) announced today that they would hold a press conference on Wednesday, June 20th at 9:30 a.m. to mark 100 days until the authorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund expires. Press Conference Details What: Bipartisan press conference to urge Congress to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Who: Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Jon Tester (D-MT), the Nature Conservancy, the Southern Appalachian Highlands Conservancy and other groups to highlight the successes of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. When: Wednesday, June 20th at 9:30 a.m. Where: Senate Swamp Background: The Land and Water Conservation Fund is one of the nation’s oldest and most successful conservation programs, which operates with no taxpayer funding. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) has introduced S. 896, a bill to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and Representative Raul Grijalva (D-AZ-3) has introduced similar legislation in the House. This vital program expires on September 30, 2018.
06.15.2018	06.15.18 Advisory: Senate Intel to Hold Open Hearing on Policy Response to Russian Election Interference WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced the Committee will hold an open hearing on Wednesday, June 20, 2018. This hearing will be the first to examine the policy response to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. The Committee will move into a closed session immediately following the open hearing. Hearing Details What: “Policy Response to Russian Interference in the 2016 U.S. Elections” Witnesses: Ambassador Victoria Nuland, former Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs at the United States Department of State Mr. Michael Daniel, former White House Cybersecurity Coordinator and Special Assistant to President Obama When: Wednesday, June 20, 2018 at 10:00 a.m. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 ###
06.05.2018	06.05.18 Burr, Tillis Announce $147 Million Infrastructure Grant for Eastern North Carolina WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will award a $147 million grant for key infrastructure projects across Eastern North Carolina’s highway corridors. The grant, which will be the largest infrastructure project in the state, will help widen up to 25 miles of road along I-95 and upgrade the remaining sections of U.S. 70 to interstate grade, allowing the freeway to become I-42. “I am pleased that North Carolina will receive the resources we need to continue updating our crucial highway corridors,” said Senator Burr. “These projects will modernize our roads and decrease congestion in areas that have become overburdened by traffic and delays. They will also improve our emergency preparedness in the event of a natural disaster and will establish reliable access to four vital military bases. In the process, this work and development will help boost economic growth in local communities. I am proud of Senator Tillis’ work and the strong, bipartisan support North Carolina’s delegation has shown on this important issue.” “Today’s decision by the Department of Transportation to provide resources to widen I-95 and allow U.S. 70 to become I-42 is great news that will produce long-lasting benefits in Eastern North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “These improvements will result in reduced traffic congestion, improved access to military bases, and increased investments in our state’s economy. I want to thank Secretary Chao for this grant to make these important infrastructure improvements and Senator Burr for his partnership advocating for these projects.” Background: - The grant is part of Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) funding and will be distributed to the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT). - In 2015, the Senate passed H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which included provisions introduced by Senators Burr and Tillis to designate portions of U.S. 70 as a high priority corridor and future interstate. The INFRA grant will help connect U.S. 70 from I-40 to the Port in Morehead City. The project will improve access along I-95 and U.S. 70 for four military bases: Fort Bragg, Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, Camp Lejeune Marine Base, and Cherry Point Marine Air Station. - In addition to expanding highway access, the project will provide 300 miles of broadband backbone to connect Eastern North Carolina to telecom access
05.23.2018	05.23.18 HELP Committee Approves Critical Law to Prepare for and Respond to Bioterror Attacks and Pandemics, Moves to Full Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate Health Committee approved the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act, legislation authored by Senators Burr, Casey, Alexander, and Murray to ensure our country is prepared for the threats we are facing, both naturally occurring like pandemic influenza and man-made, such as a bioterror attack. The Senators released the following statements regarding the Committee’s passage of the legislation: “I’m pleased by the Committee’s passage of this important legislation,” said Senator Richard Burr. “This is a great step in supporting the programs and policies we have in place to prepare for and respond to worst-case scenarios, like pandemic influenza or a deliberate attack on our country. This legislation builds upon the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act to ensure we are ready for constantly evolving threats and encourages the development of innovative technologies to better protect Americans from the threats we may face today and in the future. I look forward to the Senate’s swift consideration and approval to put these improvements in place.” “The HELP Committee has taken an important step forward in advancing this legislation,” said Senator Bob Casey. “This reauthorization bill makes important improvements to our public health and health care preparedness programs, and will help strengthen our communities’ ability to respond to the full range of public health threats. I urge my Senate colleagues to support this measure so it can be signed into law.” “Tennesseans want to know we are better prepared to face public health threats—whether that’s outbreaks of infectious diseases like Ebola, Zika, or the flu; natural disasters, such as hurricanes and the wildfires that swept across East Tennessee in 2016; or deliberate attacks with dangerous agents, like anthrax or nuclear weapons,” said Senator Lamar Alexander. “This bipartisan legislation takes the next step toward ensuring we are able to better protect Tennesseans and all Americans from 21st century threats by strengthening our preparedness and response capabilities. I’m grateful to Senator Burr and Senator Casey for their leadership on this bill and I’m hopeful that the full Senate will pass it before many of the programs expire at the end of September.” “While we don’t know what the next public health emergency will be or when it will occur, we do know the threats are real, present, and deserving of serious attention—which is why this bill is so important,” said Senator Patty Murray. “This strong reauthorization builds on our past efforts to protect our communities with new steps to ensure we are working to prepare for every scenario, and for every family and their unique needs. The passage of this bill is a testament to the bipartisan agreement on the importance of making investments and making plans to keep our families safe and healthy when public health emergencies strike.” You can find the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018 here. You can find a section-by-section of the legislation here.
05.22.2018	05.22.18 Senate Intel Unanimously Approves Evanina to Continue as NCSC Director, Nomination Moves to Full Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee has reported the nomination of William R. Evanina to be Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The Chairman and the Vice Chairman released the following statements regarding the Committee’s favorable vote: “I’m pleased to see Director Evanina confirmed today by the Committee to continue to lead the National Counterintelligence and Security Center,” said Chairman Burr. “Having served as the Chief of CIA’s Counterespionage Group and beginning his service as NCSC Director in 2014, before this position required Senate confirmation, Bill brings a wealth of counterintelligence knowledge and expertise to the DNI every day. I thank him and his family for allowing him to serve his country for so many years, and look forward to working with him in the future.” “At a time of numerous intelligence and security threats to our country, including Russia’s interference in our elections and China’s ‘whole of society’ effort to acquire sensitive U.S. technology, it is imperative that the Senate confirm Bill Evanina as the Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center,” said Vice Chairman Warner. “As the DNI’s point person on security clearance reform, it is also critical that he use this position to undertake a comprehensive plan to revamp, revitalize, and modernize our broken and outdated security clearance and background investigation system, and to make tangible progress – soon – on the unacceptable backlog of investigations.”
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Applauds Confirmation of CIA Director Gina Haspel WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today released the following statement regarding the confirmation of Gina Haspel to be the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency: “I’m pleased to see Gina Haspel confirmed today to be the Director of CIA,” said Chairman Richard Burr. “Perhaps the most qualified individual ever nominated for this role, Ms. Haspel has earned the respect of her peers, predecessors, and members of Congress from both sides of the aisle. She is the right person to lead the brave men and women of the CIA, has a clear-eyed vision for the future of the Agency, and I look forward to working with Ms. Haspel in the years to come to keep our country safe.”
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Senate HELP Committee Leaders Introduce Legislation to Combat Bioterrorism and Pandemics WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bob Casey (D-PA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Patty Murray (D-WA) released the following statements regarding the introduction of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018, a bill to reauthorize the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act: “This legislation holds true to the spirit of our initial law, supporting a nimble, flexible, and fast approach to the threats we are facing, whether they are naturally occurring or the result of a deliberate attack on our country,” said Senator Burr. “I am proud to introduce bipartisan legislation that underscores the daily urgency needed to prepare for and respond to these threats, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this critical piece of legislation through the Senate.” “This reauthorization bill makes important improvements to our public health and health care preparedness programs, and will help strengthen our communities’ ability to respond to the full range of public health threats,” Senator Casey said. “I am pleased to work in a bipartisan manner again on this legislation to support our nation’s preparedness and response capabilities, and I look forward to swift action in the Senate on this vital bill.” “After a deadly hurricane season, Americans want to know we are better prepared to face public health threats—whether that’s natural disasters, flu outbreaks, or bioterror attacks,” said Senator Alexander. “This bipartisan proposal, led by Senators Burr and Casey, takes the next step toward ensuring we are able to better protect Americans from 21st century threats by strengthening our preparedness and response capabilities to ensure we are ready for the full range of public health threats we may face. The Senate health committee will consider and seek to approve this bill next Wednesday, so the full Senate can consider it before many programs expire at the end of September.” “In order to respond effectively to keep families safe from pandemics and other public health threats when they strike, we need to have a strong national framework prepared and ready well before they strike.” said Senator Murray. “I’m glad this bipartisan bill builds on our past efforts to do just that, and includes additional steps to help us prepare against emerging threats by bolstering critical work to combat antimicrobial resistance and ensuring that we are doing as much as we can to keep all families safe. This is an important bill to protect our communities against serious health threats, and I’m going to keep working with my colleagues across the aisle to make sure we get this done.” Background Information: The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA) was enacted in 2006 and reauthorized in 2013 to establish and build upon a framework for responses to public health threats that may result in a public health emergency. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act (PAHPAI) includes policies to build on the existing PAHPA framework, updating these programs to address 21st century threats by: Updating the National Health Security Strategy to ensure our planning for public health emergencies remains focused on the full range of threats we face. Strengthening our emergency response workforce. Encouraging a regionalized approach to our healthcare response, so that communities across the country are able to utilize their local resources in an organized and effective fashion in the event of an outbreak or attack. Advancing situational awareness and biosurveillance capabilities to better monitor potential threats that could result in a public health emergency. Updating and aligning the term “at-risk individual” across the PAHPA framework to ensure consistency in considerations for all members of our communities. Strengthening the PAHPA framework to encourage the consideration of children prior to, during, and after a public health emergency. Ensuring a threat-based focus for the medical countermeasures (MCMs) purchased under the Strategic National Stockpile. Fostering innovation in MCM advanced research and development. Providing greater certainty and predictability across the MCM enterprise to encourage MCM development to address 21st Century threats. You can find a section-by-section of the legislation here.
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Senate Intel Completes Review of Intelligence Community Assessment on Russian Activities in the 2016 U.S. Elections WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today held a closed hearing to complete its review of the Intelligence Community Assessment (ICA) on “Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections.” The testimony of former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, former Director of CIA John Brennan, and former Director of NSA Mike Rogers will inform the Committee’s final report on this “chapter” of its Russia inquiry. Chairman Burr said, “The first task in our inquiry was to evaluate the Intelligence Community’s work on this important piece of analysis. Committee staff have spent 14 months reviewing the sources, tradecraft, and analytic work, and we see no reason to dispute the conclusions. There is no doubt that Russia undertook an unprecedented effort to interfere with our 2016 elections. I look forward to completing the Committee’s inquiry and issuing our findings and recommendations to the American people.” “Despite the short time frame they had to prepare it, the intelligence community did a very good job with the ICA,” said Vice Chairman Warner. “After a thorough review, our staff concluded that the ICA conclusions were accurate and on point. The Russian effort was extensive, sophisticated, and ordered by President Putin himself for the purpose of helping Donald Trump and hurting Hillary Clinton. In order to protect our democracy from future threats, we must understand what happened in 2016. And while our Committee’s investigation remains ongoing, one thing is already abundantly clear – we have to do a better job in the future if we want to protect our elections from foreign interference.” Today’s closed hearing is a bookend to the hearing the Committee held in January 10, 2017, on Russian Active Measures. Staff will finalize this chapter of the report on the Intelligence Community’s work and submit it for a classification review.
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Senate Intelligence Committee Leaders Announce Favorable Committee Vote for Acting CIA Director Haspel WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced Acting Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Gina Haspel, was favorably reported out of the Committee by a vote of 10-5 to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. “Gina Haspel is the most qualified person the President could choose to lead the CIA and the most prepared nominee in the 70 year history of the Agency,” said Chairman Richard Burr. “She has acted morally, ethically, and legally, over a distinguished 30-year career and is the right person to lead the Agency into an uncertain and challenging future. I’m pleased to see the Committee favorably report her nomination to the full Senate, and I look forward to her swift confirmation.” “As Director of the CIA, Gina Haspel will be the first operations officer in more than five decades to lead the Agency. I believe that she will be a strong advocate for the Agency’s workforce, and an independent voice who can and will stand up on behalf of our nation’s intelligence community,” said Vice Chairman Mark Warner. “Most importantly, I believe she is someone who can and will stand up to the President if ordered to do something illegal or immoral – like a return to torture.”
05.11.2018	05.11.18 Senate Intel to Hold Open Hearing to Consider Nomination of William R. Evanina to be Director of National Counterintelligence and Security Center WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing to consider the nomination of William R. Evanina to be Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Details: Hearing: Nomination of William R. Evanina to be Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence When: Tuesday, May 15th, 2018 at 9:30 A.M. Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106
05.11.2018	05.11.18 Senate Intel to Hold CLOSED Hearing Evaluating the January 2017 Intelligence Community Assessment on “Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent Elections” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a closed hearing on the January 2017 Intelligence Community Assessment (ICA) “Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections.” The hearing will evaluate the work the intelligence community did to research and write the ICA, furthering the Committee’s inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Details: Hearing: Evaluating the January 2017 Intelligence Community Assessment on “Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent Elections Witnesses: Former Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper Former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, John Brennan Former Director of the National Security Agency, Admiral Mike Rogers Former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James Comey (invited) When: Wednesday, May 16th, 2018 at 9:30 am Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 219
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Senators Burr and Tillis Announce NC Disaster Declaration Following Guilford, Rockingham Tornadoes WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the administration’s Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina: “I’m pleased to see President Trump grant North Carolina this critical declaration to help our citizens recover from the recent tornadoes in Guilford and Rockingham County,” said Senator Burr. “This assistance will help families get back on their feet and make their communities whole again.” “Last month’s tornadoes affected hundreds of residents in Guilford and Rockingham County, and caused damage to homes, businesses, and local schools,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank President Trump for approving the disaster declaration so North Carolinians can receive federal assistance as they recover.” Important Information: Individuals in Guilford and Rockingham Counties can register with FEMA and apply online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Constituents may also call the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. Background Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, and Representatives G.K. Butterfield, George Holding, Walter Jones, David Price, Virginia Foxx, Mark Walker, David Rouzer, Richard Hudson, Robert Pittenger, Patrick McHenry, Mark Meadows, Alma Adams, and Ted Budd wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long to support North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s request that the President declare a major disaster for the State of North Carolina, under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act, as a result of severe weather that effected Guilford and Rockingham counties on April 15, 2018. The full letter can be found here.
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Burr Statement on U.S. Withdrawal from Iran Deal WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), otherwise known as the Iran Deal, and re-impose sanctions: “I agree with President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the JCPOA. This deal, which was not ratified by the United States Senate under the Constitution’s requirements for treaties, was based on the naive hope by the previous administration that the world’s number one state sponsor of terror would change its bad behavior in exchange for terms, including sanctions relief. This deal was also weakened by the inclusion of a sunset provision, a condition that only delayed Iran’s nuclear ambitions, and did not stop them. We owe it to the American people and our allies in the region to chart a more effective course to more effectively deny Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear weapon.”
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Senate Intel Committee Releases Unclassified 1st Installment in Russia Report, Updated Recommendations on Election Security WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and James Lankford (R-OK), members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the Committee’s unclassified summary of the first installment of the Committee’s Russia Report, including updated recommendations on election security and findings regarding Russian targeting of election infrastructure. In parallel, the Committee has prepared a comprehensive, classified report on threats to election infrastructure. The classified report will be submitted for declassification review, and the Committee anticipates releasing it to the public when that process is completed. “I’m pleased to be able to release this summary of our findings and recommendations on election security to the American public,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Today’s primaries are the next step toward the 2018 midterms and another reminder of the urgency of securing our election systems. Our investigation has been a bipartisan effort from day one, and I look forward to completing the Committee’s work and releasing as much of it as possible. We are working tirelessly to give Americans a complete accounting of what happened in 2016 and to prevent any future interference with our democratic process.” “Elections at all levels are central to our democracy, to our institutions, and to our government's legitimacy, and I remain concerned that we as a country are still not fully prepared for the 2018 midterm elections. That’s one reason why we, as a Committee, have decided that it is important to get out as much information as possible about the threat, so that governments at every level take it seriously and take the necessary steps to defend ourselves,” said Senator Mark Warner. “I am proud of the bipartisan work our Committee members have done on this issue, and I look forward to continuing in a bipartisan way to investigate what happened in 2016, and prevent future interference in our elections.” “While our investigation remains ongoing, one conclusion is clear: the Russians were relentless in attempting to meddle in the 2016 election, and they will continue their efforts,” said Senator Susan Collins. “The findings and recommendations we are releasing today are a major step forward in our effort to thwart any attempt to meddle in our elections. With the 2018 election fast approaching, the need to act now is urgent. We must provide states the assistance they need to strengthen the security of their voting systems.” “Our democracy hinges on Americans' ability to fairly choose our own leaders. With primary elections underway, and as we approach the midterm elections and the next presidential election cycle, we need to act quickly to protect the integrity of our voting process,” said Senator Martin Heinrich. “I am proud of how our whole Committee, under the leadership of Chairman Burr and Vice Chairman Warner, has taken on the task of getting to the bottom of Russia's interference in our election. Until we set up stronger protections of our election systems and take the necessary steps to prevent future foreign intervention, our nation's democratic institutions will remain vulnerable to attack.” “During the 2016 election, Russian entities targeted presidential campaign accounts, launched cyber-attacks against at least 21 state election systems, and hacked a US voting systems software company,” said Senator James Lankford. “We must proactively work to ensure the security of our election infrastructure for the possibility of interference from not just Russia, but possibly another adversary like Iran or North Korea or a hacktivist group. After 18 months of investigations and interviews, this bipartisan report underscores the importance of efforts to protect our democracy from foreign attacks on our elections.” The Committee’s unclassified summary of this chapter of the Russia Report – Election Security Findings and Recommendations are embedded below and available here: Russian Targeting of Election Infrastructure During the 2016 Election: Summary of Initial Findings and Recommendations May 8, 2018 Overview In 2016, cyber actors affiliated with the Russian Government conducted an unprecedented, coordinated cyber campaign against state election infrastructure. Russian actors scanned databases for vulnerabilities, attempted intrusions, and in a small number of cases successfully penetrated a voter registration database. This activity was part of a larger campaign to prepare to undermine confidence in the voting process. The Committee has not seen any evidence that vote tallies were manipulated or that voter registration information was deleted or modified. The Committee has limited information about whether, and to what extent, state and local officials carried out forensic or other examination of election infrastructure systems in order to confirm whether election-related systems were compromised. It is possible that additional activity occurred and has not yet been uncovered. Summary of Initial Findings Cyber actors affiliated with the Russian government scanned state systems extensively throughout the 2016 election cycle. These cyber actors made attempts to access numerous state election systems, and in a small number of cases accessed voter registration databases. At least 18 states had election systems targeted by Russian-affiliated cyber actors in some fashion.[1] Elements of the IC have varying levels of confidence about three additional states, for a possible total of at least 21. In addition, other states saw suspicious or malicious behavior the IC has been unable to attribute to Russia. Almost all of the states that were targeted observed vulnerability scanning directed at their Secretary of State websites or voter registration infrastructure. Other scans were broader or less specific in their target. In at least six states, the Russian-affiliated cyber actors went beyond scanning and conducted malicious access attempts on voting-related websites.[2] In a small number of states, Russian-affiliated cyber actors were able to gain access to restricted elements of election infrastructure. In a small number of states, these cyber actors were in a position to, at a minimum, alter or delete voter registration data; however, they did not appear to be in a position to manipulate individual votes or aggregate vote totals. The Committee found that in addition to the cyber activity directed at state election infrastructure, Russia undertook a wide variety of intelligence-related activities targeting the U.S. voting process. These activities began at least as early as 2014, continued through Election Day 2016, and included traditional information gathering efforts as well as operations likely aimed at preparing to discredit the integrity of the U.S. voting process and election results. The Committee’s assessments, as well as the assessments of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), are based on self-reporting by the states. DHS has been clear in its representations to the Committee that the Department did not have perfect insight into these cyber activities. It is possible that more states were attacked, but the activity was not detected. In light of the technical challenges associated with cyber forensic analysis, it is also possible that states may have overlooked some indicators of compromise. The Committee saw no evidence that votes were changed and found that, on balance, the diversity of our voting infrastructure is a strength. Because of the variety of systems and equipment, changing votes on a large scale would require an extensive, complex, and state or country-level campaign. However, the Committee notes that a small number of districts in key states can have a significant impact in a national election. [1] These numbers only account for state or local government targets. DHS did not include states which may have witnessed attacks on political parties, political organizations, or NGOs. In addition, the numbers do not include any potential attacks on third-party vendors. 2 In the majority of these instances, Russian government-affiliated cyber actors used Structure Query Language (SQL) injection - a well-known technique for cyberattacks on public-facing websites. Actors and Motive The Committee concurs with the IC that Russian government-affiliated actors were behind the cyber activity directed against state election infrastructure. While the full scope of Russian activity against the states remains unclear because of collection gaps, the Committee found ample evidence to conclude that the Russian government was developing capabilities to undermine confidence in our election infrastructure, including voter processes. The Committee does not know whether the Russian government-affiliated actors intended to exploit vulnerabilities during the 2016 elections and decided against taking action, or whether they were merely gathering information and testing capabilities for a future attack. Regardless, the Committee believes the activity indicates an intent to go beyond traditional intelligence collection. DHS Efforts to Bolster Election Security The Committee found that DHS’s initial response was inadequate to counter the threat. In the summer of 2016, as the threat to the election infrastructure emerged, DHS attempted outreach to the states, seeking to highlight the threat for information technology (IT) directors without divulging classified information. By the fall of 2016, as the threat became clearer, DHS attempted a more extensive outreach to the states with limited success. At the outset, DHS was not well-positioned to provide effective support to states confronting a hostile nation-state cyber actor. In addition, members of the Obama administration were concerned that, by raising the alarm, they would create the very impression they were trying to avoid––calling into question the integrity of election systems. DHS and FBI alerts to the states in the summer and fall of 2016 were limited in substance and distribution. Although DHS provided warning to IT staff in the fall of 2016, notifications to state elections officials were delayed by nearly a year. Therefore, states understood that there was a cyber threat, but did not appreciate the scope, seriousness, or implications of the particular threat they were facing. Many state election officials reported hearing for the first time about the Russian attempts to scan and penetrate state systems from the press or from the public Committee hearing on June 21, 2017. DHS’s notifications in the summer of 2016 and the public statement by DHS and the ODNI in October 2016 were not sufficient warning. It was not until September of 2017, and only under significant pressure from this Committee and others, that DHS reached out directly to chief election officials in the targeted states to alert the appropriate election officials about the scanning activity and other attacks and the actor behind them. (However, the Committee notes that in the small number of cases where election-related systems had been compromised, the federal government was in contact with senior election officials at the time the intrusion was discovered.) The Committee found that DHS is engaging state election officials more effectively now than in the summer of 2016. Although early interactions between state election officials and DHS were strained, states now largely give DHS credit for making tremendous progress over the last six months. States have signed up for many of the resources that DHS has to offer, and DHS has hosted meetings of the Government Coordinating Council and Sector Coordinating Council, as required under the critical infrastructure designation. Those interactions have begun to increase trust and communication between federal and state entities. DHS hosted a classified briefing for state chief election officials and is working through providing security clearances for those officials. An Election Infrastructure Information Sharing and Analysis Center has been established, focused on sharing network defense information with state and local election officials. Ongoing Vulnerabilities Despite the progress on communication and improvements to the security of our election process, the Committee remains concerned about a number of potential vulnerabilities in election infrastructure. Voting systems across the United States are outdated, and many do not have a paper record of votes as a backup counting system that can be reliably audited, should there be allegations of machine manipulation. In addition, the number of vendors selling machines is shrinking, raising concerns about supply chain vulnerability. Paperless Direct Recording Electronic (DRE) voting machines––machines with electronic interfaces that electronically store votes (as opposed to paper ballots or optical scanners)––are used in jurisdictions in 30 states and are at highest risk for security flaws. Five states use DREs exclusively. Many aspects of election infrastructure systems are connected to and can be accessed over the internet. Furthermore, systems that are not connected to the internet, such as voting machines, may still be updated via software downloaded from the internet. These potentially vulnerable systems include some of the core components of U.S. election infrastructure, including systems affiliated with voter registration databases, electronic poll books, vote casting, vote tallying, and unofficial election night reporting to the general public and the media. Risk-limiting audits are a best practice to mitigate risk. Vendors of election software and equipment play a critical role in the U.S. election system, and the Committee continues to be concerned that vendors represent an enticing target for malicious cyber actors. State local, territorial, tribal, and federal government authorities have very little insight into the cyber security practices of many of these vendors, and while the Election Assistance Commission issues guidelines for security, abiding by those guidelines is currently voluntary. Summary of SSCI Recommendations The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has examined evidence of Russian attempts to target election infrastructure during the 2016 U.S. elections. The Committee has reviewed the steps state and local election officials have taken to ensure the integrity of our elections and agrees that U.S. election infrastructure is fundamentally resilient. The Department of Homeland Security, the Election Assistance Commission, state and local governments, and other groups have already taken beneficial steps toward addressing the vulnerabilities exposed during the 2016 election cycle, including some of the measures listed below, but more needs to be done. The Committee recommends the following steps to better defend against a hostile nation-state who may seek to undermine our democracy: 1. Reinforce States’ Primacy in Running Elections States should remain firmly in the lead on running elections, and the Federal government should ensure they receive the necessary resources and information. 2. Build a Stronger Defense, Part I: Create Effective Deterrence The U.S. Government should clearly communicate to adversaries that an attack on our election infrastructure is a hostile act, and we will respond accordingly. The Federal government, in particular the State Department and Defense Department, should engage allies and partners to establish new international cyber norms. 3. Build a Stronger Defense, Part II: Improve Information Sharing on Threats The Intelligence Community should put a high priority on attributing cyberattacks both quickly and accurately. Similarly, policymakers should make plans to operate prior to attribution. DHS must create clear channels of communication between the Federal government and appropriate officials at the state and local levels. We recommend that state and local governments reciprocate that communication. Election experts, security officials, cybersecurity experts, and the media should develop a common set of precise and well-defined election security terms to improve communication. DHS should expedite security clearances for appropriate state and local officials. The Intelligence Community should work to declassify information quickly, whenever possible, to provide warning to appropriate state and local officials. 4. Build a Stronger Defense, Part III: Secure Election-Related Systems Cybersecurity should be a high priority for those managing election systems. The Committee recommends State and Local officials prioritize the following: Institute two-factor authentication for state databases. Install monitoring sensors on state systems. One option is to further expand DHS’s ALBERT network. Identify the weak points in the network, including any under-resourced localities, and prioritize assistance towards those entities. Update software in voter registration systems. Create backups, including paper copies, of state voter registration databases. Include voter registration database recovery in state continuity of operations plans. Consider a voter education program to ensure voters check registration well prior to an election. Undertake intensive security audits of state and local voter registration systems, ideally utilizing an outside entity. Perform risk assessments for any current or potential third-party vendors to ensure they are meeting the necessary cyber security standards in protecting their election systems. The Committee recommends DHS take the following steps: Working closely with election experts, develop a risk management framework that can be used in engagements with state and local election infrastructure owners to document and mitigate risks to all components of the electoral process. Create voluntary guidelines on cybersecurity best practices and a public awareness campaign to promote election security awareness, working through the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC), the National Association of Secretaries of State (NASS), and the National Association of State Election Directors (NASED). Maintain and more aggressively promote the catalog of services DHS has available for states to help secure their systems, and update the catalog as DHS refines their understanding of what states need. Expand capacity to reduce wait times for DHS cybersecurity services. Work with GSA to establish a list of credible private sector vendors who can provide services similar to those provided by DHS. 5. Build a Stronger Defense, Part IV: Take Steps to Secure the Vote Itself States should rapidly replace outdated and vulnerable voting systems. At a minimum, any machine purchased going forward should have a voter-verified paper trail and no WiFi capability. If use of paper ballots becomes more widespread, election officials should re-examine current practices for securing the chain of custody of all paper ballots and verify no opportunities exist for the introduction of fraudulent votes. States should consider implementing more widespread, statistically sound audits of election results. Risk-limiting audits, in particular, can be a cost-effective way to ensure that votes cast are votes counted. DHS should work with vendors to educate them about the potential vulnerabilities of both voting machines and the supply chains. 6. Assistance for the States States should use federal grant funds to improve cybersecurity by hiring additional Information Technology staff, updating software, and contracting vendors to provide cybersecurity services, among other steps. Funds should also be available to defray the costs of instituting audits
04.27.2018	04.27.18 North Carolina Congressional Delegation Requests FEMA Assistance for Tornado Disaster Relief WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, and Representatives G.K. Butterfield, George Holding, Walter Jones, David Price, Virginia Foxx, Mark Walker, David Rouzer, Richard Hudson, Robert Pittenger, Patrick McHenry, Mark Meadows, Alma Adams, and Ted Budd wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long to support North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s request that the President declare a major disaster for the State of North Carolina, under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act, as a result of severe weather that effected Guilford and Rockingham counties on April 15, 2018. In part, the letter reads: “Since the storms, state, county, and FEMA officials have undertaken preliminary damage assessments (PDA) for Individual Assistance (IA). The findings underscore the devastation that was brought upon these communities by the EF2 tornado. In Guilford County, the PDA found that 36 homes or businesses were destroyed, 180 homes suffered major damage, 289 homes incurred minor damage, and 316 properties were affected Further, three elementary schools in Guilford County will remain closed for the remainder of the school year due to damage inflicted on the buildings. In Rockingham County, the PDA found five homes or businesses destroyed, seven with major damages, 21 with minor damages, and 19 properties affected.” “…To that end, we urge the President to approve this request for a major disaster declaration, consistent with the intended purposes of FEMA and the federal Stafford Act, in order to provide Individual Assistance as soon as possible to assist the citizens of these two counties. “ The full letter can be found here.
04.27.2018	04.27.18 Senators Burr and Tillis Applaud Confirmation of Steven Gladden to be U.S. Marshal for North Carolina’s Middle District WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the confirmation of Steven L. Gladden to be the United States Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina: “I’m pleased to see the Senate confirm Steven Gladden to be North Carolina’s Middle District U.S. Marshal,” said Senator Burr. “Central North Carolina will be lucky to have someone with Steve’s extensive background in the U.S. Marshals Service at the helm, and I look forward to working with him in the years to come.” “I applaud the Senate for confirming Steven Gladden to be the U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “Steven brings an incredible wealth of experience from his years in the U.S. Marshals Service, and he will serve the people of North Carolina well.” Background Information Hailing from Mount Gilead, North Carolina, Mr. Gladden last served in the U.S. Department of Treasury as the Intermittent Economic Crimes Advisor in the Office of Technical Assistance. Previously, he served in the U.S. Marshals Service for 26 years, part of which as the Assistant Chief Inspector of the Asset Forfeiture Division. Mr. Gladden graduated from the Carolina School of Broadcasting.
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Burr: Proud to Have Pompeo Represent America as Nation’s Top Diplomat WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement on Director Mike Pompeo’s confirmation to be Secretary of State: “The United States should be proud to see Director Pompeo confirmed to serve as our nation’s next top diplomat. I can think of few people more qualified or prepared to represent our country as we promote democracy and freedom around the world, and I look forward to working with him in the years to come.”
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Senate HELP Committee Members Release Bipartisan Discussion Draft to Combat Bioterrorism and Pandemics WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Burr, Casey, Alexander, and Murray released a bipartisan discussion draft to reauthorize the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA), making targeted improvements to the tools at our nation’s disposal to prepare for and respond to the threats that we face, whether naturally occurring like pandemic flu, or as a result of a deliberate attack on our country. PAHPA was enacted in 2006 and reauthorized in 2013 to establish and build upon an all-hazards framework for responses to public health threats that may result in a public health emergency. Ebola, Zika, and a destructive hurricane season have all made clear that these threats are constantly evolving, requiring further work to protect our communities. The draft Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act (PAHPAI) focuses on improvements to programs within the PAHPA framework to address these 21st century threats. “We must be vigilant in our efforts to prepare for and respond to the very real threats our nation faces,” said Senator Burr. “Fostering and leveraging innovative technologies to improve our preparedness and response capabilities will encourage a nimble and flexible response to new and changing public health threats affecting our national security. These policies will improve existing tools and encourage new technologies to better protect the American people. I look forward to feedback on this draft.” “Our nation faces increasingly complex threats from a range of naturally-occurring and manmade threats to public health,” said Senator Casey. “We must continue our efforts to strengthen core public health preparedness capabilities to ensure that our communities are able to respond to any public health threat that arises, and ensure that we are investing in the countermeasures and products we need to protect people in a public health emergency. I look forward to hearing back from interested stakeholders with their comments.” “After a deadly hurricane season, Americans want to know we are better prepared to face public health threats – whether that’s natural disasters, flu outbreaks, or bioterror attacks,” said Senator Alexander. “This bipartisan proposal, led by Senators Burr and Casey, takes the next step toward ensuring we are able to protect Americans from 21st century threats by strengthening our capabilities to be prepared for and able to respond to the full range of public health threats.” “Protecting our families against the health threats of tomorrow means taking steps to be prepared today, which is why this legislation is so important,” said Senator Murray. “I’m glad we could put together a bipartisan bill that reinforces our vigilance against emerging disease outbreaks, pandemics, and other threats—including by bolstering critical work to combat antimicrobial resistance, and focusing on the diverse needs of everyone jeopardized by a public health threat. I will keep working with my colleagues to build on this discussion draft and get this bill signed into law, to make sure we are always preparing for crises with foresight rather than simply learning from tragedies in hindsight.” The PAHPAI discussion draft can be found here. Comments are due by May 4, 2018, to PAHPA2018@help.senate.gov A Section by Section is available here.
04.25.2018	04.25.18 Senate Intelligence Committee Statement on the Passing of Matt Pollard WASHINGTON – The bipartisan membership of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence made the following statement on the death of Committee staffer Matt Pollard: “It is with deep sadness that we announce the loss of Committee staff member Matt Pollard. Matt lost his life on Monday at the age of 52. Matt is survived by his mother, his three sisters, and his beloved son Bradley. Matt was a member of the Army National Guard, a valued staff member, and a wonderful father. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family and his friends across the United States Senate, the Armed Forces, and the Intelligence Community. We will miss his expertise, his infectious sense of humor, and, most importantly, his friendship.”
04.24.2018	04.24.18 Senator Burr Introduces Bill to Strengthen Airline Service Animal Procedures WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr introduced legislation to align the definition of a “service animal” under the Air Carriers Access Act (ACAA) with the definition under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), establish a criminal penalty for making misrepresentations about a service animal, and require federal agencies to establish a standard of service animal behavior training for animals who will be working on an aircraft. “Today, I’m proud to introduce legislation that will protect the ability of individuals and veterans with disabilities to travel with their trained service animals,” said Senator Burr. “One doesn’t have to look far to find rampant cases of abuse where even emotional support kangaroos have been allowed to fly on planes to the detriment of fellow travelers and handlers of trained service animals. This bill will help clearly define what is a ‘service animal’ and will establish penalties for those fraudulently claiming disability needs.” Background Information: The ACAA (49 USC 41705) prohibits discrimination on a commercial aircraft against anyone with a “physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.” Enacting regulation for the ACAA (14 CFR 382.117) allows the use of an “emotional support or psychiatric service animal” under certain conditions. However, under the Americans with Disability Act (ADA) the definition of “service animal” (28 CFR 36.104/302) does not require accommodation for dogs whose sole function is to provide comfort or emotional support, as those animals do not qualify under the ADA. The legislation would amend the ACAA by defining “service animal” in statute using the current definition under the ADA. By aligning the two statutes using the ADA definition of service animal, it would bar animals not currently recognized by the ADA, would not allow animals whose sole function is to provide comfort or emotional support, and would require that in order to qualify as a service animal a dog must be individually trained to do work or perform tasks for people with disabilities. The legislation would also make it illegal for an individual to knowingly and willfully make a false statement for the purpose of seeking accommodation involving an animal from a commercial air carrier. Specifically, the proposal would prohibit false statements or representations regarding whether an animal is a service animal trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability. Finally, the legislation would require the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, commercial air carriers, and private industry, to establish a standard of service animal behavior training for individuals seeking accommodation under the ACAA. Support: This bill has garnered the support of Airlines for America, the American Legion, the Association of Flight Attendants – CWA, the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, K9s for Warriors, the Association of Service Dog Providers for Military Veterans, and numerous other airlines.
04.19.2018	04.19.18 Advisory: Senate Intel Committee to Hold Confirmation Hearing for Gina Haspel to Head CIA WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open confirmation hearing on the nomination of Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Gina Haspel, to become Director of the CIA on Wednesday, May 9th, 2018. The hearing will begin in open session and may move to closed session later in the day. Details: Hearing: Nomination of Gina Haspel to be Director of CIA When: Wednesday, May 9th, 2018 at 9:30 am. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
04.17.2018	04.17.18 Senators Burr, Heitkamp, and Tillis Introduce Resolution Recognizing April 26, 2018, as ‘Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day’ WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr, Heidi Heitkamp, and Thom Tillis introduced Senate Resolution 464 recognizing April 26, 2018, as “Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day.” The resolution, marking the 25th Anniversary of the program, encourages parents across the country to bring their children to work to empower and inspire them through the example they set in their professional workplaces: “The key to every child’s bright future is in their education. ‘Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day’ exemplifies the tangible results of a good education, and shows each child what they’re working towards,” said Senator Burr. “I couldn’t be more proud that the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Foundation calls Elizabeth City, North Carolina home. With 40 million kids involved annually, I know this program will only grow and continue to help show each child his or her full potential.” “For decades, the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work program has given thousands of children across the country the valuable opportunity to learn firsthand from their parents about potential jobs and career paths. Not only has the program exposed children to the workforce, but it has reinforced the importance of supporting working parents and creating workplaces that prioritize a fair and respectful work-life balance,” said Senator Heitkamp. “ I’m proud to support this critical program as it works to recognize the hard work of parents and mentors to support their families. And by allowing students to explore a variety of occupations, we are boosting our long-term economic security and underscoring the time-tested value of hard work.” “Bringing children to work can be an invaluable experience that can help shape the child’s work and educational goals,” said Senator Tillis. “The Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Foundation based out of Elizabeth City, North Carolina has developed into a great program that has impacted kids all across the country, and I am proud to co-introduce this legislation with Senators Burr and Heitkamp to recognize the participants of this important initiative.” Text of the Resolution: Whereas the Take Our Daughters To Work program was created in New York City as a response to research that showed that, by the 8th grade, many girls were dropping out of school, had low self-esteem, and lacked confidence; Whereas, in 2003, the name of the program was changed to “Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work” so that boys who face many of the same challenges as girls could also be involved in the program; Whereas, in 2018, the mission of the program, to develop “innovative strategies that empower girls and boys to overcome societal barriers to reach their full potential”, fully reflects the addition of boys; Whereas the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Foundation, a nonprofit organization, has grown to be one of the largest public awareness campaigns, with more than 40,000,000 participants annually in more than 3,500,000 organizations and workplaces representing each State; Whereas, in 2007, the Take Our Daughters To Work program transitioned to Elizabeth City, North Carolina, became known as the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Foundation, and received national recognition for its dedication to future generations; Whereas, every year, mayors, governors, and other private and public officials sign proclamations and lend support to Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day; Whereas the fame of the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work program has spread overseas, with requests and inquiries being made from around the world on how to operate the program; Whereas 2018 marks the 25th anniversary of the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work program; Whereas Take Our Daughters And Sons to Work Day will be observed on Thursday, April 26, 2018; and Whereas, by offering opportunities for children to experience activities and events, Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day is intended to continue helping millions of girls and boys on an annual basis to examine their opportunities and strive to reach their fullest potential: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) recognizes the goals of introducing our daughters and sons to the workplace; and (2) commends all participants of Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day for the— (A) ongoing contributions that the participants make to education; and (B) vital role that the participants play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the United States.
04.12.2018	04.12.18 Burr and Murray Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Expand Successful Military Medic Program Nationwide WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced a bill to require the Department of Defense (DoD) to partner with medical schools and healthcare systems in states with a Special Operations Command (SOCOM) presence such as Washington, Florida, California, and North Carolina, to allow military medics to transfer their experience into credit for a Master’s Degree to become Physician Assistants (PAs). The SOCOM Medic Pilot Program expands upon a successful public-private partnership between the U.S. Army Special Operations Command, the Carolinas Healthcare System, and Wake Forest University, which effectively shortens the time of post-military Physician Assistants’ certification from 2 years to 5 months for military medics. “Medics in the field have substantial experience in saving lives,” said Sen. Burr. “Of course, doctors and hospitals across the country would benefit from the skills medics already have from their service. With this bill, medics can get their certification to become a physician’ assistants in one quarter the time under current law. This pilot program is successful in my state, and the universities and medical professionals agree. Rolling this out nationwide is a great solution and I look forward to Senate passage of this bill.” “One of the most important commitments we make to our servicemembers is to help them more easily transition back to civilian life, including finding a career when they return home,” said Sen. Murray. “In addition to increasing investments and improving access to additional training and education, we should absolutely recognize the invaluable skills and experience these men and women earned while serving, and count that experience toward a new career. I’m glad this program is working in Senator Burr’s home state, and I’m proud to introduce this legislation to expand this program to communities in Washington state and around the country.” Additional Info: Currently, a public-private-partnership exists between U.S. Army Special Operations Command, the Carolinas Healthcare System, and Wake Forest University, which effectively shortens the time of post-military PA certification from 2 years to 5 months for military medics. The SOCOM Medic Pilot Program seeks to institute this model formally with special operations, requiring the Department of Defense (DoD) to partner with institutions of higher education and healthcare systems, as determined by the Secretary, to allow SOCOM medics to earn a year of academic credit and civilian-equivalent training towards a Master’s PA degree for military operational work. The Secretary would be required to provide two reports to Congress, upon implementation and before completion of the program, respectively, outlining the feasibility and advisability of permanently extending DoD this authority under 10 U.S.C. Section 107. The Secretary has the ability to utilize the 1-3 service payback model outlined in DoD instruction 1322.10 (PME), minimizing or eliminating the cost of the program. The SOCOM Medic Pilot Program would enhance SOCOM medics’ technical and critical-thinking skills, strengthen recruiting, improve retention, and increase mission capabilities.
04.10.2018	04.10.18 Senators Burr and Tillis Applaud Nomination of Kenneth D. Bell to be District Judge for Western North Carolina WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Kenneth D. Bell to fill the United States District Court vacancy for the Western District of North Carolina. “I am very pleased to support Kenneth D. Bell to serve as a judge in the Western District of North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “Ken’s nearly fifteen years in private practice, and nearly twenty years in public service in the Western District’s U.S. Attorney’s office will serve him well. As a fellow Demon Deacon, I know the Western District of North Carolina will be in good hands.” “I want to thank President Trump for his intent to nominate Mr. Bell to be District Judge for Western North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “Mr. Bell’s previous work in the private sector and public service in the U.S. Attorney’s office of Western North Carolina makes him a great choice for this vacancy, and I look forward to supporting his nomination in the Judiciary Committee.” Background Mr. Bell is currently a partner with McGuireWoods, LLP in Charlotte, North Carolina, where he has recently served as the federally appointed receiver of the largest Ponzi scheme in history. Before McGuireWoods, Mr. Bell was also a partner at the law firms of Hunton & Williams, LLP and Mayer Brown, LLP. He was awarded the Attorney General’s John Marshall Award for Trial of Litigation in 2003. Ken has also previously served the state of North Carolina as the first assistant U.S. Attorney and an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. He received undergraduate and law degrees from Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
04.06.2018	04.06.18 Senator Burr Statement on the 3rd Marine Air Wing CH-53E Crash WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the death of four U.S. Marines in a CH-53E helicopter crash on Tuesday, April 3, 2018: “I’m terribly saddened to hear of the accident that took First Lt. Samuel D. Phillips’ life, along with three other brave Marines, this Tuesday. It’s always a tragedy to lose one of North Carolina’s native sons, especially when he was so young. My deepest condolences are with the family of First Lt. Phillips, as well as the families of the three other Marines who lost their lives in service to their country.”
03.20.2018	03.20.18 Senate Intel Committee’s Initial Recommendations on Election Security for 2018 Election Cycle WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, in advance of today’s press conference with Committee members, made available the Committee’s initial recommendations on election security after investigating Russian attempts to target election infrastructure during the 2016 U.S. elections. The Committee will hold an open hearing on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, on the threats to election infrastructure. The hearing will cover attempted attacks on state election infrastructure in 2016, DHS and FBI efforts to improve election security, and the view from the states on their cybersecurity posture. The Committee’s initial recommendations are embedded below and available here. RUSSIAN TARGETING OF ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE DURING THE 2016 ELECTION SUMMARY OF DRAFT SSCI RECOMMENDATIONS The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has examined evidence of Russian attempts to target election infrastructure during the 2016 U.S. elections. The Committee has reviewed the steps state and local election officials take to ensure the integrity of our elections and agrees that U.S. election infrastructure is fundamentally resilient. The Department of Homeland Security, the Election Assistance Commission, state and local governments, and other groups have already taken beneficial steps toward addressing the vulnerabilities exposed during the 2016 election cycle, including some of the measures listed below, but more needs to be done. The Committee recommends the following steps to better defend against a hostile nation-state who may seek to undermine our democracy: 1. Reinforce States’ Primacy in Running Elections States should remain firmly in the lead on running elections, and the Federal government should ensure they receive the necessary resources and information. 2. Build a Stronger Defense, Part I: Create Effective Deterrence The U.S. Government should clearly communicate to adversaries that an attack on our election infrastructure is a hostile act, and we will respond accordingly. The Federal government, in particular the State Department and Defense Department, should engage allies and partners to establish new international cyber norms. 3. Build a Stronger Defense, Part II: Improve Information Sharing on Threats The Intelligence Community should put a high priority on attributing cyber-attacks both quickly and accurately. Similarly, policymakers should make plans to operate prior to attribution. DHS must create clear channels of communication between the Federal government and appropriate officials at the state and local levels. We recommend that state and local governments reciprocate that communication. Election experts, security officials, cybersecurity experts, and the media should develop a common set of precise and well-defined election security terms to improve communication. DHS should expedite security clearances for appropriate state and local officials. The Intelligence Community should work to declassify information quickly, whenever possible, to provide warning to appropriate state and local officials. 4. Build a Stronger Defense, Part III: Secure Election-Related Systems Cybersecurity should be a high priority for those managing election-related systems. Basic but crucial security steps like two-factor authentication for those logging into voter databases can improve the overall election security posture. States and localities should also take advantage of DHS offerings, to include DHS’s network monitoring capabilities. The Committee recommends DHS take the following steps: Working closely with election experts, develop a risk management framework that can be used in engagements with state and local election infrastructure owners to document and mitigate risks to all components of the electoral process. Create voluntary guidelines on cybersecurity best practices and a public awareness campaign to promote election security awareness, working through the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC), the National Association of Secretaries of State (NASS), and the National Association of State Election Directors (NASED). Expand capacity to reduce wait times for DHS cybersecurity services. Work with GSA to establish a list of credible private sector vendors who can provide services similar to those provided by DHS. 5. Build a Stronger Defense, Part IV: Take Steps to Secure the Vote Itself States should rapidly replace outdated and vulnerable voting systems. At a minimum, any machine purchased going forward should have a voter-verified paper trail and no WiFi capability. If use of paper ballots becomes more widespread, election officials should re-examine current practices for securing the chain of custody of all paper ballots and verify no opportunities exist for the introduction of fraudulent votes. States should consider implementing more widespread, statistically sound audits of election results. DHS should work with vendors to educate them about the vulnerabilities of both the machines and the supply chains. 6. Assistance for the States The Committee recommends Congress urgently pass legislation increasing assistance and establishing a voluntary grant program for the states. States should use grant funds to improve cybersecurity by hiring additional Information Technology staff, updating software, and contracting vendors to provide cybersecurity services, among other steps. Funds should also be available to defray the costs of instituting audits.
03.19.2018	03.19.18 Advisory: Senate Intel Committee Members to Hold Press Conference Tuesday to Preview Election Security Findings WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a press conference in the Capitol on Tuesday, March 20, 2018, to preview the Committee’s findings and recommendations on threats to election infrastructure. The Committee will hold a previously announced hearing the next day which will cover attempted attacks on state election infrastructure in 2016, DHS efforts to improve election security, and the view from the states on their cybersecurity posture. Details Press Conference to Preview Committee’s Election Security Findings Members to Speak: Senate Intel Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) Senate Intel Committee Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM) Senator James Lankford (R-OK) Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) Other Members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence When: Tuesday, March 20, 2018 at 12:15 pm Where: Senate Radio/TV Gallery Studio (S.325, U.S. Capitol)
03.19.2018	03.19.18 Advisory: Senate Intel to Hold Open Hearing on Election Security WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, on the threats to election infrastructure. The hearing will cover attempted attacks on state election infrastructure in 2016, DHS and FBI efforts to improve election security, and the view from the states on their cybersecurity posture. Details Hearing: Open Hearing on Election Security Panel 1: Secretary of DHS Kirstjen Nielsen Former Secretary of DHS Jeh Johnson Panel 2: Representatives from: National Protection and Programs Directorate, Office of Cyber Security and Communications, DHS Election Assistance Commission Panel 3: Representatives from: National Association of Secretaries of State National Association of State Election Directors Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs When: Wednesday, March 21, 2018 at 9:30 am. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
03.15.2018	03.15.18 Joint Statement: Senate Intel Committee Leaders on Russian Nerve Agent Attack on British Soil WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement on Russia’s culpability in the nerve agent attack in England: “We stand with our British allies and the rest of the civilized world in denouncing the brazen and brutal chemical attack carried out against the United Kingdom. It has become clear that Russia is behind this effort to kill innocent civilians with a banned nerve agent. This reckless and hostile act violates every international and diplomatic norm. The Kremlin may deny it and spread misinformation through its propaganda machine, but we know the truth. We must come together as a global community and stand against Russia and the malicious actions of the Putin regime.”
03.15.2018	03.15.18 More Relief for Main Street: Senator Burr Applauds Passage of Dodd-Frank Reform Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement on the passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act: “I’m pleased the Senate passed bipartisan legislation today to promote economic growth and address many of the shortfalls of the Dodd-Frank Act. For years North Carolinians have shared with me that Dodd-Frank hobbled our local economies with excessive and ill-conceived red tape, particularly in small towns and rural communities across our state. This bill addresses those flaws by reducing unnecessary and time-consuming regulations in order to provide small businesses and families with the access to capital they need to grow their business or purchase a home. I look forward to this legislation’s swift passage in the House.”
03.13.2018	03.13.18 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Gina Haspel to be Director of CIA WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement on the President’s decision to nominate current Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Gina Haspel to be Director of the CIA: “I know Gina personally and she has the right skill set, experience, and judgment to lead one of our nation’s most critical agencies. I’m proud of her work, and know that my committee will continue its positive relationship with the Central Intelligence Agency under her leadership. I look forward to supporting her nomination, ensuring its consideration without delay.”
03.09.2018	03.09.18 Advisory: Senate Intel to Hold Confirmation Hearing on Lieutenant General Nakasone to be Director of the National Security Agency WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open confirmation hearing on Thursday, March 15, 2018, on the nomination of Lieutenant General Paul M. Nakasone to be the Director of the National Security Agency. The Committee may move into closed session following conclusion of the open session. Details Hearing: Open hearing on the Nomination of Lieutenant General Paul M. Nakasone to be the Director of the National Security Agency Witnesses: Lieutenant General Paul M. Nakasone When: Thursday, March 15, 2018 at 10:00 am. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Senators Burr and Tillis Applaud Nomination of Gregory Forest to be U.S. Marshal for North Carolina’s Western District WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the nomination of Gregory Allyn Forest to be the United States Marshal for the Western District of North Carolina: “Mr. Forest is an excellent choice for North Carolina’s Western District U.S. Marshal, having served in the same role under President George W. Bush,” said Senator Burr. “With nine years in the Charlotte Police Department and more than twenty years with the Western District of North Carolina in various law enforcement roles, he is well–prepared to serve the people of North Carolina.” “I applaud the nomination of Gregory Forest to be the Western District Marshal in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “I recommended Mr. Forest to President Trump because he has extensive law enforcement experience in Western North Carolina, including previously serving in the same role under President George W. Bush, and I look forward to supporting his nomination in the U.S. Senate.” Background Information Mr. Forest is currently the Deputy Director of International Trade Compliance for IOMAX, USA in Mooresville, North Carolina. Upon earning his Criminal Justice degree from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Greg served in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department until 1995. He then worked for the U.S. Probation Office in the Western District of North Carolina, eventually becoming a Senior Officer and Drug and Alcohol Treatment Specialist. He was appointed in 2002 by President George W. Bush to serve as North Carolina’s Western District U.S. Marshal, serving for two years before returning to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial office. He was N.C.’s Western District Chief Probation Officer until his retirement three years ago.
03.05.2018	03.05.18 ADVISORY: Senate Intel Committee to Hold Security Clearance Reform Hearing This Week WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing on security clearance reform on March 7, 2018 at 9:30 am. This hearing will address the complexities in the security clearance process for both government and industry alike and further inform the Committee as it continues its oversight of the intelligence community. The hearing will have two panels: both industry and Executive Branch officials will testify in open session. Details Hearing: Security Clearance Reform Witness Panel One: Mr. Kevin Phillips, President and CEO, ManTech Ms. Jane Chappell, Vice President, Intelligence, Information, and Services, Raytheon Ms. Brenda Farrell, Government Accountability Office Mr. David Berteau, President, Professional Services Council Witness Panel Two: Mr. Charlie Phalen, Director, National Background Investigation Bureau (NBIB) Mr. Brian Dunbar, Assistant Director for Security, National Counterintelligence and Security Center (NCSC) Mr. Garry Reid, Director for Defense Intelligence and Security, Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence (USDI) Mr. Dan Payne, Director, Defense Security Service (DSS), Department of Defense When: Wednesday, March 7, 2018 at 9:30 am Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106 The hearing will be streamed live at intelligence.senate.gov
02.28.2018	02.28.18 Senators Burr and Tillis Pass Resolution to Honor Life of Reverend Billy Graham WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis released the following statement on the passage of Senate Joint Resolution 53, honoring the life of Reverend William “Billy” F. Graham, Jr.: “I’m honored to be able to pass this resolution on behalf of Rev. Graham’s family and the millions of people across the world whose lives and faith were made stronger by Rev. Graham,” said Senator Burr. “His was a life fully lived, bringing so many people closer to God. Our hearts are with the late Reverend’s family. May he rest in everlasting peace.” “Reverend Billy Graham was a proud North Carolinian whose devotion to faith and the Gospel bettered our country and the world,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud to introduce this resolution to celebrate his life and legacy as America’s Pastor.” Background Information Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis were joined by Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS), Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR), Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), Senator Steve Daines (R-MT), Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE), Senator Cory Gardener (R-CO), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Senator Dean Heller (R-NV), Senator John Hoeven (R-ND), Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI), Senator John Kennedy (R-LA), Senator James Lankford (R-OK), Senator Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), Senator Rand Paul (R-KY), Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Senator Rob Portman (R-OH), Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Senator Tim Scott (R-SC), Senator John Thune (R-SD), Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA), Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), and Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS). Senators Burr and Tillis jointly introduced Senate Joint Resolution 53, honoring the life of William “Billy” F. Graham Jr. The text of the resolution reads as follows: JOINT RESOLUTION Honoring the life of William ‘‘Billy’’ F. Graham, Jr. Whereas William ‘‘Billy’’ F. Graham, Jr., was born on November 7, 1918, in Charlotte, North Carolina; Whereas, in 1939, Reverend Graham was ordained by Peniel Baptist Church in Florida; Whereas Reverend Graham studied at Florida Bible Institute and graduated from Wheaton College in Wheaton, Illinois, in 1943; Whereas Reverend Graham married his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth McCue Bell, in 1943; Whereas Reverend Graham had 3 daughters, 2 sons, 19 grandchildren, and numerous great grandchildren; Whereas, in 1950, Reverend Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, which is based in Charlotte, North Carolina; Whereas Reverend Graham preached to nearly 215,000,000 individuals in more than 185 countries and territories on 6 continents; Whereas Reverend Graham provided spiritual counsel for every President since Harry Truman; Whereas Reverend Graham prayed with members of the Armed Forces in combat zones in South Korea and Vietnam; Whereas Reverend Graham spoke against the communist Soviet Union, saying, ‘‘Communism has decided against God, against Christ, against the Bible, and against all religion.’’; Whereas Reverend Graham— (1) fought for racial integration; (2) invited Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., to preach with him in New York City in 1957; and (3) bailed Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., out of jail when Dr. King was arrested for protesting segregation; Whereas, following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, Reverend Graham spoke words of hope and comfort to the people of the United States at the Washington National Cathedral; Whereas Reverend Graham authored 34 books, including the bestselling autobiography, ‘‘Just as I Am’’, which began by discussing his early days on a dairy farm in North Carolina and continued through his career as a preacher and evangelist; and Whereas Reverend Graham received numerous honors, including— (1) the North Carolina Award for Public Service; (2) the Presidential Medal of Freedom; (3) the Ronald Reagan Freedom Award; and (4) the Congressional Gold Medal: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress— (1) extends its sympathies to the family of William ‘‘Billy’’ F. Graham, Jr.; and (2) honors— (A) the life and ministry of Reverend Graham; and (B) the contributions of Reverend Graham to— (i) the State of North Carolina; (ii) the United States of America; and (iii) the moral and religious lives of millions of individuals.
02.22.2018	02.22.18 Senator Burr Statement on Rev. Graham Lying in Honor in U.S. Capitol Rotunda WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding Reverend Billy Graham lying in honor in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda: “I’m extremely pleased that Reverend Billy Graham will lie in honor in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda from Wednesday, February 28 until Thursday, March 1. This is among the highest honors that can be bestowed upon an American upon their death. It is only fitting that Reverend Graham be memorialized at the heart of our nation’s Capital and among the great presidents and leaders he counseled.”
02.21.2018	02.21.18 Senator Burr Statement on Passing of Reverend Graham WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the passing of North Carolina’s Reverend Billy Graham: “I was incredibly saddened to hear of the passing of Reverend Billy Graham this morning. America’s Pastor was an inspiration to millions of Christians in our country and across the world. While his humility, faith, and booming voice will be sorely missed, today, he is at peace with God.”
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Senators Burr and Tillis Applaud Nomination of Steven Gladden to be U.S. Marshal for North Carolina’s Middle District WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the nomination of Steven L. Gladden to be the United States Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina: “I’m glad to see the President nominate such a qualified and seasoned individual in Mr. Gladden,” said Senator Burr. “Bringing more than a quarter-century of U.S. Marshals Service experience to the job, Steven will undoubtedly serve the Middle District of North Carolina with honor and distinction. I look forward to his speedy confirmation by the United States Senate.” “Mr. Gladden is an outstanding choice to be Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina, bringing a wealth of experience from his dedicated service in the U.S. Marshals Service,” said Senator Tillis. “As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to supporting his nomination.” Background Information Hailing from Mount Gilead, North Carolina, Mr. Gladden currently serves in the U.S. Department of Treasury as the Intermittent Economic Crimes Advisor in the Office of Technical Assistance. Previously, he served in the U.S. Marshals Service for 26 years, part of which as the Assistant Chief Inspector of the Asset Forfeiture Division. Mr. Gladden graduated from the Carolina School of Broadcasting.
02.07.2018	02.07.18 ADVISORY: Senate Intel Committee to Hold Worldwide Threats Hearing Next Week Open hearing with Intelligence Community Directors Coats, Pompeo, Rogers, Wray, Ashley, and Cardillo to testify WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold the Committee's annual Worldwide Threats hearing on February 13, 2018 at 9:30 am. DNI Coats, CIA Director Pompeo, NSA Director Rogers, FBI Director Wray, DIA Director Ashley, and NGA Director Cardillo will all testify in open session. The hearing will move into closed session following the open session. Details Hearing: World Wide Threats Witnesses: Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats Central Intelligence Agency Director Mike Pompeo National Security Agency Director Michael Rogers Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Christopher Wray Defense Intelligence Agency Director Robert Ashley National Geospatial Intelligence Agency Director Robert Cardillo When: Tuesday, February 13, 2018 at 9:30 am Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 The hearing will be streamed lived at intelligence.senate.gov
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Senator Burr Statement Following State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement following the State of the Union address from President Trump: “A little over one year ago, the American people voted for a change. Following eight years of abdicated global leadership and the slowest economic recovery in history, the new administration has delivered that change in spades. Our stock markets are setting records on a daily basis, ISIS is on the run, and unemployment rates are at record lows. The new president and this Congress have worked together to put first those who were left behind in recent years and, in doing so, helped the millions of Americans who needed it most. “We confirmed a well-qualified Supreme Court Justice and a record number of Circuit Court judges. We revoked hundreds of unnecessary regulations that wasted thousands of hours of paperwork better spent on further developing businesses. We repealed the burdensome Individual Mandate from Obamacare. And we passed the most sweeping tax reform in more than thirty years, putting more of your hard earned money back in your pockets. “You would be hard pressed to find someone who hasn’t seen the benefits from all that’s been done in just the first year of this administration. I look forward to continuing to work together with the president and my colleagues in Congress to accomplish even more for the American people in 2018.”
01.24.2018	01.24.18 Senator Burr Kicks Off Push to Renew Pandemic and Bioterror Defense Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Over the last several weeks, Senator Richard Burr, a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, chaired multiple hearings on the reauthorization of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA). As the original sponsor of the 2006 PAHPA legislation, Senator Burr has been one of the foremost leaders in preparing our country for the public health threats we face, both naturally occurring like pandemic flu and those that may be the result of a deliberate attack. In the first hearing, witnesses included the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at HHS, the FDA Commissioner, and the Director of Public Health Preparedness and Response at CDC. The second hearing included testimony from the Director of the Center for Health Security at Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, the Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations at Sequirus (an influenza vaccine company), the Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Health, and the Head of Pediatric Emergency Medicine at the Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago. Hearing from members of the administration, state officials, health care practitioners, and the private sector has been invaluable to informing Senator Burr as he begins work to authorize this critical law. Below is an excerpt from yesterday’s hearing regarding the importance of innovation in medical countermeasures with Mr. MacGregor of Sequirus: Senator Burr, “You mentioned BARDA (Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority), BARDA’s known for its work to advance new and innovative technologies to better combat public health threats, and has been extremely successful in innovative approaches to the development of medical countermeasures such as platform technologies. What do you see as the greatest challenges to bringing these new and innovative technologies through the medical countermeasure pipeline?” Mr. MacGregor, “Well I think one example of what you mentioned, Senator Burr, is new and innovative platform technologies, and the plant in Holly Springs [North Carolina] is an example of this. This is cell-based technology in Holly Springs, it’s not the more conventional egg-based, to which I think more people are aware. And the interaction with BARDA has been very strong, and not only allowed us to continue to advance the effectiveness of cell-based technology, most recently through efforts to improve the yields of cell-based technology that not only benefit in a pandemic setting, but also potentially benefit in a seasonal setting as well, and the benefit that ideally will come will not only be hopefully in vaccines coming sooner to market, but the other promise we hope with cell-based technology, as an example of a platform technology that is invested in by the government, is that it offers the potential for providing a better match in the event of a mismatch season, as we’re experiencing this year.”
01.19.2018	01.19.18 Advisory: Senator Burr to Chair 2nd HELP Committee Hearing Tuesday on Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, will lead the second in a series of HELP Committee hearings to examine our nation’s preparedness and response capabilities in combatting 21st Century public health threats next Tuesday, January 23rd at 10:00am. Details Hearing: ‘Facing 21st Century Public Health Threats: Our Nation’s Preparedness and Response Capabilities, Part 2’ Witnesses: Tom Inglesby, MD, Director, Center for Health Security, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD John J. Dreyzehner, MD, MPH, FACOEM, Commissioner, Tennessee Department of Health, Nashville, TN Brent MacGregor, Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations, Seqirus, Co-Chair, Alliance for Biosecurity, Summit, NJ Steven Krug, MD, FAAP, Head, Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago, Professor of Pediatrics, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chair, Disaster Preparedness Advisory Council, American Academy of Pediatrics, Chicago, IL When: Tuesday, January 23rd, 2018 at 10:00am. Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 430 and streamed LIVE on the HELP Committee’s site.
01.18.2018	01.18.18 Senate Intelligence Chairman Burr on Senate Passage of Crucial FISA Sec. 702 Reauthorization WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement regarding the passage of S.139, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act: “Today, the Senate took this important step in reauthorizing what I believe is our single most important national security tool. This bill will help us to fulfill our most important duty as Senators: keeping Americans safe. Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act has been reviewed time and again by both the Courts and Congress, and has been found to be not just constitutional, but vital to our country’s defense. I look forward to the President signing this legislation without delay.”
01.17.2018	01.17.18 Intel Chairman Burr: “702 Is the Single Most Important National Security Tool We Have” WASHINGTON – Today, the Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following remarks on the Senate floor in support of the successful vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the House amendment to accompany S.139, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act: “Let me be clear: this (Section 702 of FISA) has been tested in the courts and the courts have ruled that this program is lawful and constitutional. So any claim outside of that is not a claim from the judiciary, which we trust -- it is a claim from an individual -- and I believe in this case that we should trust the courts. Let me say here that Congress recognized the constitutionality of section 702 when it reauthorized the bill in 2012.” He continues: “702 is the single most important national security tool that we have in the United States.” WATCH Chairman Burr deliver remarks here
01.16.2018	01.16.18 Advisory: Senator Burr to Chair HELP Committee Hearing Tomorrow on Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, will lead a HELP Committee hearing to examine our nation’s preparedness and response capabilities in combatting 21st Century public health threats tomorrow, Wednesday, January 17th at 10:00am. Details Hearing: ‘Facing 21st Century Public Health Threats: Our Nation’s Preparedness and Response Capabilities, Part I’ Witnesses: Dr. Robert Kadlec, the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the Department of Health and Human Services Dr. Scott Gottlieb, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration Dr. Stephen C. Redd, Director of the Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention When: Wednesday, January 17th, 2018 at 10:00am Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 430 and streamed LIVE on the HELP Committee’s site.
01.12.2018	01.12.18 Advisory: Senate Intel to Hold Confirmation Hearing for Intel Watchdog, DNI’s General Counsel WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a confirmation hearing on the nomination of Michael Atkinson to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community and Jason Klitenic to be General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence on Wednesday, January 17, 2018. Details Hearing: Open hearing on the Nomination of Michael Atkinson to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community and Jason Klitenic to be General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence Witnesses: Michael Atkinson to be Inspector General of the Intelligence Community Jason Klitenic to be General Counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence When: Wednesday, January 17, 2018 from 11:30 am – 1:30 pm Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
01.11.2018	01.11.18 Senate Intelligence Chairman Burr on House Passage of FISA Section 702 Reauthorization WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement after the House voted 256-164 to reauthorize Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act: “I am pleased by the House passage of legislation to reauthorize Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. These authorities are critical to the Intelligence Community’s understanding of terrorists, cyber criminals, and foreign intelligence services. I look forward to Senate consideration of this important legislation.”
12.22.2017	12.22.17 Senate Passes Bill to Assist in Locating Missing Autism, Alzheimer’s Patients WASHINGTON – Last night, the Senate passed Kevin and Avonte's Law of 2017 (S.2070) by unanimous consent. Kevin and Avonte’s Law of 2017 helps families locate missing relatives with Autism, Alzheimer’s disease and other related conditions. The bill reauthorizes the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program and authorizes funding also to be used for the purchase of tracking technology that helps the families of a child with developmental disabilities recover their child in the event they become separated. Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a co-sponsor of the legislation, made the following statement on the passage: “Kevin and Avonte’s Law can make a significant difference for families faced with frightening scenarios where their loved ones stray from their homes. Sadly, there have been tragic cases of special needs children and adults wandering away from their caregivers. This law will give law enforcement the tools they need to help families reunite and help prevent new tragedies from occurring.” Kevin and Avonte’s Law has been endorsed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the Alzheimer’s Association, American Society on Aging, Autism Speaks, The Arc, National Autism Association, Safe Minds, and other organizations.
12.20.2017	12.20.17 Sen. Burr on Historic Tax Reform: Let’s Get the Government out of Your Pockets WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Senate’s passage of historic tax reform legislation: “Today, we voted to jump-start our economy and save the average American family thousands each year. For far too long, our tax system has been a burden to the millions of middle-class class citizens that make up a majority of this country. This tax overhaul starts to get the government out of your pockets, and puts Main Street in the driver’s seat of the economy, not Washington. Included in the final bill are a doubling of the standard deduction, the child tax credit, and a repeal of Obamacare’s Individual Mandate tax that was crippling the lower- and middle-class. These historic tax cuts also include a number of provisions that I fought hard for, including the ABLE to Work Act, which allows individuals with disabilities to work and save their hard earned money in an ABLE account without risking the loss of their benefits. For most Americans, it also repeals the Individual Alternative Minimum Tax, a parallel tax system that adds layers of complexity to the current code. This reform is long overdue, and I look forward to the President signing the tax reform legislation and getting our economy moving again.”
12.19.2017	12.19.17 Sen. Burr on House Passage of Tax Reform, Including ABLE Act Enhancements WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senior Member of the Finance Committee, made the following statement on the House passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which included the ABLE to Work Act and the ABLE Financial Planning Act: “It has been three years to the day since the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act was signed into law and I’m incredibly proud that the ABLE to Work Act and the ABLE Financial Planning Act are included in the historic, soon-to-be passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. These provisions will enhance the immensely popular ABLE Act by allowing disabled Americans the opportunity to work and save more money tax-free, without losing their needed benefits. They will also allow for savings in 529 college savings plans to be rolled over into ABLE accounts tax-free if an individual becomes disabled after a family has already started saving for college. Families and individuals with disabilities across the country will benefit tremendously from these provisions, and I’m pleased to see them included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that passed the House earlier today, and will soon pass the Senate.”
12.18.2017	12.18.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr’s Statement on President’s National Security Speech WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on President Trump’s national security speech: “Today, President Trump spoke to the threats facing the United States, including a growing extremist threat and ongoing competition from Russia and China. The threats against our country and our citizens include not only acts of violence but also insidious cyber-attacks that undermine our democracy and ongoing economic espionage that damages our economy. The President today committed to maintaining America as the world’s only superpower and reassured our allies that the previous administration’s ‘lead from behind’ era of American leadership is over.”
12.14.2017	12.14.17 Senators Burr, Tillis Introduce Blue Ridge National Heritage Area Reauthorization Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis released the following statements regarding the introduction of S. 2225, the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area Reauthorization Act of 2017: “I’m excited today to take a critical step forward in extending the authorization for the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area,” said Senator Burr. “This program has boosted the tourism economy in our state by billions with only a fraction of that coming from federal coffers. By extending this authorization for an additional four years, millions more will be able to enjoy the beautiful landscapes and culture of western North Carolina for a long time to come.” “The Blue Ridge National Heritage Area plays a vital role in the Western North Carolina tourism industry, creating thousands of jobs and contributing billions of dollars to the local economy” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to partner with Senator Burr to introduce legislation extending this important program so we can continue to preserve the unique culture and natural beauty of our great state.” Background Information: The Blue Ridge National Heritage Area (BRNHA) was established in 2003 to preserve and develop the distinctive culture of Western North Carolina and South Appalachia. It spans 25 counties across the western portion of North Carolina, including the Blue Ridge Parkway and Great Smoky Mountains National Park, two of the most visited National Parks in the country. In the last 15 years, this National Heritage Area (NHA) has provided more than 154 grants totaling $2.1 million, with more than double that leveraged in local and private investment. In all, the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area supports more than 30,000 jobs and boasts an annual economic impact of $2.39 billion. The BRNHA also provides support to the Blue Ridge Parkway Visitor Center near Asheville, NC, which hosts more than 100,000 annual visitors. Blue Ridge Parkway, Asheville, NC Newfound Gap Road, Great Smoky Mountains National Park, NC Mount Mitchell, Blue Ridge Parkway, NC
12.05.2017	12.05.17 Burr Praises Nielsen Confirmation to be Secretary of Homeland Security WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the confirmation of Kirstjen Nielsen to be the Secretary of Homeland Security: “I’m very encouraged to see Kirstjen Nielsen, who is eminently qualified to lead the Department of Homeland Security, confirmed by the Senate today. Her prior experience under President George W. Bush at the White House Homeland Security Council, the Transportation Security Administration, and more recently, DHS, have prepared her well to take over this critical role in protecting our nation. I look forward to working with her in the coming years to keep America and her citizens safe as we face an increasingly large and troubling range of threats.”
12.02.2017	12.02.17 Sen. Burr Applauds Senate Passage of Historic Tax Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the Senate’s passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “I’m incredibly pleased to see the Senate’s passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act this morning. This bill is an historic opportunity to reform a broken tax code that hasn’t worked for the people of this country in years. We have a responsibility to get our economy moving and put more money back in the pockets of the hard-working Americans who earned it in the first place. I look forward to the next steps in getting this critical legislation to the President’s desk for his signature.”
11.28.2017	11.28.17 Sens. Burr, Harris, Klobuchar and Rep. Speier Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Protect Against Online Exploitation of Private Images WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), alongside Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) today introduced the Ending Nonconsensual Online User Graphic Harassment (ENOUGH) Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that will address the malicious exploitation of private, explicit images, such as “revenge porn” and “sextortion.” Rep. Speier previously introduced a version of this bill in the 114th Congress, the Intimate Privacy Protection Act of 2016. “It’s time to update the law and ensure that individuals who maliciously exploit the private information and images of their victims are held accountable under criminal statute. New technologies can make our lives better, but they also open a new platform for abuse and exploitation. Congress needs to help our laws adapt to this new era and this bill will provide the tools needed to stop these acts,” said Senator Burr. “Perpetrators of exploitation who seek to humiliate and shame their victims must be held accountable. It is long past time for the federal government to take action to give law enforcement the tools they need to crack down on these crimes,” said Senator Harris. “For victims of nonconsensual pornography, technology today makes it possible to destroy a person’s life with the click of a button or a tap on a cell phone. The damage caused by these attacks can crush careers, tear apart families, and, in the worst cases, has led to suicide,” Congresswoman Speier said. “What makes these acts even more despicable is that many predators have gleefully acknowledged that the vast majority of their victims have no way to fight back. Even in states that have laws on the books, the average person can’t afford to take on these predators in civil courts. Worse are the numerous victims who have mustered the courage and strength to pursue criminal charges, only to learn there is no law that protects them. The ENOUGH Act will fix this gaping hole in our legal system.” “As a former prosecutor, I know the importance of a victim-centered approach in the fight against online exploitation. Our bipartisan legislation ensures that we put the needs of victims of nonconsensual online exploitation first and provide law enforcement with resources to help bring perpetrators of these crimes to justice,” said Senator Klobuchar. “In a world where smart phones and devises are used to record and transmit every moment in life, it is becoming increasingly important to protect against malicious sharing of private, explicit images. These online privacy violations exponentially and disproportionately target women and minors. While 35 states have enacted statutes in this area, federal intervention is necessary to provide complete and consistent coverage across state lines. This important bill would narrowly establish federal criminal liability for individuals who share private, explicit images without consent, while including civil liberty safeguards to ensure that only those who share with malicious intent are liable,” said William Johnson, Executive Director of National Association of Police Organizations. "We are grateful to the ENOUGH Act's bipartisan, bicameral supporters for protecting the victims of 'revenge porn,' ‘sextortion’ and other online crimes. With sexual predators increasingly turning to the Internet to do harm, we need effective tools for addressing these serious privacy violations. We look forward to working with Congress to help pass this bill," said Rebecca O’Connor, Vice President of Public Policy, Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network. The ENOUGH Act would: Ensure that the Department of Justice has an appropriate and effective tool for address these serious privacy violations Narrowly establish federal criminal liability for individuals who share private, explicit images without consent. Strike an effective balance between protecting the victims of these serious privacy violations and ensuring that vibrant online speech is not burdened. A prosecution under the ENOUGH Act would require proving that the defendant was aware of a substantial risk that the victim expected the image would remain private and that the sharing could cause harm to the victim. A prosecution would also have to prove that no reasonable person would consider the shared image to touch on a matter of public concern A copy of the bill text is available HERE In addition to Rep. Speier, the ENOUGH Act is cosponsored in the House of Representatives by Reps. Ryan Costello (R-PA), Trey Gowdy (R-SC), Pat Meehan (R-PA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Tom Rooney (R-FL), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), and Walter Jones (R-NC). The ENOUGH Act has received support from over a dozen leading organizations from the law enforcement, women’s rights and family issues, and technology community including National Association of Assistant United States Attorneys, National District Attorneys Association, National Organization for Women, Feminist Majority, Facebook, and Twitter. A full list is available HERE. As Attorney General of California, Senator Harris led the prosecution of operators of "revenge porn" websites, believed to be the first prosecutions of their kind in the nation. Harris also launched a Cyber Exploitation Task Force, which built new online resources for victims, developed new tools and training for law enforcement officers, and partnered with the technology sector and leading researchers to counter these privacy violations. The Senator also additionally sponsored state legislation that gives law enforcement the ability to search for and seize nonconsensual intimate images pursuant to a warrant, as well as enables prosecutors to bring charges in the county where a victim resides. ###
11.20.2017	11.20.17 Burr, McCaskill Aim to Close Health Care Law Loophole with Bipartisan Bill WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Richard Burr of North Carolina and Claire McCaskill of Missouri are teaming up on the bipartisan Hospital Payment Fairness Act to fix a problematic provision in the Affordable Care Act that causes the majority of states, like Missouri and North Carolina, to unfairly subsidize high wages at a handful of hospitals through Medicare reimbursements. “I’m pleased to work with my colleague from Missouri to repeal this problematic provision of Obamacare. Today, this policy benefits a handful of states at the expense of others, pulling millions of dollars away from North Carolina’s health care providers,” Burr said. “With this repeal, states would be required to take responsibility for their own costs. I hope to see this bill garner even more bipartisan support and bring relief to negatively impacted states across the country.” “I’m the first to admit our healthcare law isn’t perfect, and that it’s in need of changes that’ll make it more fair and affordable for Missourians,” McCaskill said. “This bipartisan bill does exactly that and tips the scales back in favor of fairness for Missouri’s hospitals and the Medicare payments that help make the care they provide possible.” Medicare rules stipulate that a state’s urban hospitals must be reimbursed for wages paid to doctors and staff at least as much as rural hospitals in that state are reimbursed. A section of the Affordable Care Act required Medicare reimbursements for hospital wages be drawn from a national pool of money, instead of from each state’s allocation. As a result, any increase for one particular state means a decrease for other states. This provision has proved problematic for many states since Massachusetts has only one rural hospital—Nantucket Cottage—which sets the floor for wage reimbursements in the state. While rural hospitals typically have lower wages than urban ones, wages at Nantucket Cottage are high because of the hospital's remote location and high cost of living. Therefore, the rural wage floor established on Nantucket has become a boon for hospitals in the rest of Massachusetts. Nantucket Cottage's rural designation has allowed the state's dozens of other hospitals to collectively reap hundreds of millions of dollars in Medicare reimbursements at the expense of other states, like Missouri and North Carolina. The Hospital Payment Fairness Act will sunset this section of the Affordable Care Act, meaning states like Massachusetts will be responsible for bearing the burden of their own increased rural wage floor costs, instead of tapping the resources of other states. Roughly 40 states lose money under the current system, with Massachusetts receiving the lion’s share of redistributed revenue of the states that have been positively affected. ###
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Sen. Burr Statement on Finance Committee Approval of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Historic Opportunity WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the Senate Finance Committee approved the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, a historic bill to overhaul the nation’s tax code. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), as a senior member of the Committee, made the following statement: “Americans need a break. Our sluggish economy over the last fifteen years has meant that their paychecks aren’t increasing as fast as they should be, and too many jobs have left their communities to set up shop in other countries where their tax code is less complicated. This scenario very much applies to North Carolina, where jobs have left our state and large portions of the state’s economy have stagnated as a result. This bill is a great opportunity for our state and country. Let’s put more money back into the pockets of Americans.” Via @SenatorBurr Additionally, Senator Burr spoke in the Committee in favor of the bill. You can watch his remarks here:
11.16.2017	11.16.17 Burr, Alexander: Senate Unanimously Passes Legislation to Help FDA Better Equip Warfighters with Lifesaving Treatments WASHINGTON – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) made the following statements after the Senate today sent to the president legislation that would speed safe drugs and devices for use in battlefield emergencies: Burr said: “With final passage of today’s legislation, we can better protect our troops by improving emergency access to drugs that will help save and enhance lives of those who serve. Ultimately, this bill will encourage and expedite the development and approval of new remedies to commonly seen injuries on the battlefield, getting safe, effective and potentially lifesaving drugs and treatments to the military personnel that need them the most. I thank Senators McCain and Alexander for their work on this important legislation.” Alexander said: “There was a problem and this legislation is going to give FDA the tools to solve that problem by getting safe and effective medicines more rapidly to warfighters on the battlefield. Chairman McCain and FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb deserve great credit for their work on this important bill.” The legislation, H.R. 4374, which will accompany the National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report, was unanimously passed by the House of Representatives yesterday. WASHINGTON, Nov. 16, 2017 – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) made the following statements after the Senate today sent to the president legislation that would speed safe drugs and devices for use in battlefield emergencies: Burr said: “With final passage of today’s legislation, we can better protect our troops by improving emergency access to drugs that will help save and enhance lives of those who serve. Ultimately, this bill will encourage and expedite the development and approval of new remedies to commonly seen injuries on the battlefield, getting safe, effective and potentially lifesaving drugs and treatments to the military personnel that need them the most. I thank Senators McCain and Alexander for their work on this important legislation.” Alexander said: “There was a problem and this legislation is going to give FDA the tools to solve that problem by getting safe and effective medicines more rapidly to warfighters on the battlefield. Chairman McCain and FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb deserve great credit for their work on this important bill.” The legislation, H.R. 4374, which will accompany the National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report, was unanimously passed by the House of Representatives yesterday.
11.16.2017	11.16.17 Burr Praises Unanimous Passage of National Defense Authorization Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act: “Today, the Senate unanimously passed the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, which authorized $692.1 billion to start rebuilding our military that was decimated by the previous administration. This legislation includes $293 million for Military Construction in North Carolina, including a new Water Treatment Plant at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, a vertical lift-fan test facility for 94 incoming F-35B’s at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, and several projects at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base for 12 incoming KC-46 Tankers. Furthermore, this bill delivers a long overdue 2.4% pay increase to our troops, begins the process of improving collaboration between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs’ healthcare systems, and expands healthcare eligibility for the Guardsman and Reservists of our Armed Forces. I urge the President to quickly sign this bill into law so that our military has the tools it needs to defend our country across the globe.”
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Retirement of NCTC Director Rasmussen WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the announced retirement of the Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Nick Rasmussen: “I thank Nick Rasmussen for his almost thirty years of dedicated and honorable service to our nation. Nick led the National Counterterrorism Center ably during a challenging period and worked tirelessly to keep us safe from terrorist threats at home and abroad. I congratulate him on his retirement and wish him the best in his future endeavors.”
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Burr Applauds Finance Committee Tax Reform Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the Senate Finance Committee’s draft tax reform proposal: “I’m very excited by this promising blueprint for reforming our broken tax code in the Senate. This bill will update and simplify our incredibly complex tax system so that every-day, middle-class Americans can keep more of their hard-earned dollars. For instance, the typical family of four making the median family income will save nearly $1,500. The standard deduction also nearly doubles for individuals and families, and the child tax credit is significantly expanded. By bringing money back from overseas and encouraging entrepreneurship and small business again, we will finally be able to unleash our economy and get the country back on track. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate Finance Committee, as well as the House Ways and Means Committee, to put together a bill through an open process that will bring much-needed relief to millions of Americans.”
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Burr, Tillis Welcome Appointment of Two North Carolina USDA Positions WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, President Trump appointed Len McBride to lead the North Carolina Farm Service Agency (NC FSA) and Bob Chandler, Jr. to lead the North Carolina Rural Development office. Len McBride is currently an Agricultural Supervisory District Director with the NC FSA and is a long time employee of the Agency. He has significant experience working with farmers on the agricultural programs available through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). "Mr. McBride is an excellent choice to serve as North Carolina's USDA Farm Service Agency State Director," said Senator Richard Burr. "Len's nearly thirty years' experience working in the Farm Service Agency as a County and District Director will serve him and the people of North Carolina well. I look forward to confirming Mr. McBride as soon as possible." “With nearly 50,000 farming operations in the state, Mr. McBride’s long history in the agricultural community makes him well qualified to lead the NC FSA and I believe he will be a tremendous asset to North Carolina’s producers,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “His extensive knowledge with both direct and guaranteed loans will be invaluable as the agricultural industry deals with low commodity prices, and I look forward to working with him to make the FSA experience an efficient and friendly process for our North Carolina farmers.” Bob Chandler, Jr. is a former USDA Rural Development employee. He currently works with farmers to navigate USDA regulations and their interactions with the Department. "Mr. Chandler's more than thirty years of experience working for and with USDA will be invaluable for this position," said Senator Richard Burr. "As North Carolina's USDA Rural Development State Director, Bob will be able to serve the people of North Carolina with knowledge and expertise that is unrivaled. I look forward to his consideration and confirmation by the U.S. Senate." “Mr. Chandler has a proven record of increasing loan and grant production and building relationships between Rural Development and communities,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud President Trump for appointing Bob to lead the North Carolina Rural Development office, and I look forward to working with him on economic development opportunities to assist our rural areas with water, electric, and communications infrastructure.”
11.08.2017	11.08.17 Burr, Alexander, Walden Request Bicameral Leadership Delay Signing of NDAA Conference Report WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Select Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC), Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) released the following statement regarding a provision within the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that could endanger U.S. military personnel by exposing them to treatments without the critical oversight of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA): “The men and women who serve in our armed forces deserve the best medical care available, including timely and safe treatments for the wounds they may suffer on the battlefield. However, a new provision in the NDAA, though well-intentioned, could jeopardize the FDA’s rigorous and science-based process to ensure the availability of safe treatments and therapies, which may ultimately create more harm than good for those who have risked their lives to defend our nation. We have been and will continue to be committed to working with our counterparts in Congress and the administration to craft language that would ensure the swift delivery of treatments without forgoing safety. Based on these discussions, it is our understanding that the White House shares our concerns and supports our efforts to find a workable solution. In the spirit of these good-faith negotiations, we ask House and Senate leadership to delay signing of the NDAA conference report to allow us to reach a compromise that puts the safety of our warfighters first."
11.07.2017	11.07.17 Burr Decries Partisan Stalling on Qualified Nominees after Today’s Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the confirmation of John Gibson to be the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense: “Senate Democrats, still reeling from their 2016 election loss, are forcing roll call votes on qualified nominees like Gibson, who was confirmed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote. Since this position was created, the Senate has approved this position by prompt voice vote but that is not the case this year. The longer our Defense Department has to wait for a full staff, the more our military suffers. Senate Democrats should be ashamed. Let’s move the President’s nominations along so that our government can fully function.”
10.27.2017	10.27.17 Advisory: Senate Intel to Hold Confirmation Hearing for Justice Dept’s Assistant Attorney General, National Security Division WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a confirmation hearing on the nomination of John C. Demers to be Assistant Attorney General for the National Security Division at the U.S. Department of Justice on Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 9:30 am. Details Hearing: Hearing on the Nomination of John C. Demers to be Assistant Attorney General for the National Security Division at the U.S. Department of Justice Witnesses: John C. Demers When: Tuesday, October 31, 2017, at 9:30 am. Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building 106
10.25.2017	10.25.17 Advisory: Senate Intel Committee to Hold Open Hearing with Social Media Companies Next Week WASHINGTON - Senate Intelligence Committee will hear testimony from Facebook, Twitter, and Google in open session on Wednesday November 1, 2017. This hearing is the latest in a series of hearings that focus on Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. The witnesses will address social media influence in the 2016 U.S. elections and what steps they are taking to mitigate foreign interference in the 2018 election cycle and beyond. Details: What: Social Media Influence in the 2016 U.S. Elections Who: Colin Stretch, Vice President and General Counsel, Facebook Inc. Sean Edgett, General Counsel, Twitter Inc. Kent Walker, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Google Inc. Location: SH-216 Time: Wednesday November 1st at 9:30 am
10.25.2017	10.25.17 Sen. Burr Statement on Disaster Relief Funding Passing Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the Senate’s passage of H.R. 2266 for additional disaster relief funds: “I’m pleased today to see the Senate pass this crucial funding to help our fellow Americans across the country. We owe it to those who have lost their homes to the recent devastating wildfires and hurricanes to help them restore their lives. While the danger has passed, the work to rebuild is far from over, and I thank the first responders and emergency personnel who continue to go above and beyond to serve those in need.”
10.24.2017	10.24.17 Senate Intel Committee Advances FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act WASHINGTON - Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) today announced that the Committee voted 12-3 to approve the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017. Senator Burr: “This bill reauthorizes our nation’s most valuable intelligence collection authorities and ensures that the men and women of the Intelligence Community and our law enforcement agencies have the tools and authorities they need to keep us safe. It represents the collective effort of the Committee’s membership and is the result of extensive discussion and debate that began with an open hearing this past summer. The bill not only enhances national security but also includes provisions that increase the privacy protections of American citizens, increases the penalties for leakers of classified information, and strengthens the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. It is a bill this Committee can be proud of and I look forward to its passing the Senate without delay.” Senator Warner: “Today's bill approved by the intelligence committee on a bipartisan basis makes substantial improvements in strengthening judicial and congressional oversight of the government's queries of lawfully collected U.S. person data. It is a good compromise bill that addresses privacy and civil liberties concerns while maintaining a critical tool essential for our intelligence and law enforcement professionals to protect the nation.” About the Bill: The bill extends the sunset of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to December 31, 2025. It also: Provides additional privacy protections for US Persons; Requires additional transparency into Section 702 targets through reporting to Congress; Enhances penalties against leakers; Strengthens the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board and its ability to hire and deliberate; Enables the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to more effectively leverage impartial advisers (Amicus Curiae) and technical support.
10.20.2017	10.20.17 Senate Intel Leaders Postpone Open Hearing with Michael Cohen WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement: “The Committee’s public hearing with Michael Cohen has been postponed, and will be rescheduled at a later date. The Committee appreciates Mr. Cohen’s cooperation as its investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections continues to make progress.”
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Burr on Senate Budget Vote: It’s Time to Simplify the Tax Code WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the Senate’s passage of the FY 2018 Budget Resolution, to begin the tax reform process: “I’m very pleased to take the first steps in the Senate towards reforming our country’s broken tax code. It’s been far too long since there has been a serious overhaul of our tax system, and the time to act is now. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, we are on our way to starting the legislative process to simplify the code, encourage companies to bring money back home from overseas, and put hard-earned dollars back in the pockets of millions of North Carolinians and Americans who need it most.”
10.12.2017	10.12.17 Senate Intel to Hold Confirmation Hearing Next Week for CIA Inspector General Nominee Christopher Sharpley WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a confirmation hearing next week on the nomination of Christopher Sharpley to be the Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency on Tuesday, October 17 at 2:30pm. Details Hearing: Hearing on the Nomination of Christopher Sharpley Witness: Christopher Sharpley to be Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency When: Tuesday, October 17, 2017 at 2:30pm Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
10.12.2017	10.12.17 Burr Statement on Caitlin Coleman and Family WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding Caitlin Coleman, Joshua Boyle, and their three children: “I am pleased to hear reports that Caitlin Coleman, Joshua Boyle, and their three children are no longer in captivity. My heartfelt thanks goes out to all those involved in their safe recovery.”
10.03.2017	10.03.17 ADVISORY: Senators Burr, Cantwell, Daines, Udall and Gardner Announce Press Conference on Permanent Reauthorization of Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Tom Udall (D-NM) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that they will hold a press conference for permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund on Thursday, October 5th at 9:30am. Details Press Conference: Senators Burr, Cantwell, Daines, Udall and Gardner, the Nature Conservancy, the Southern Appalachian Highlands Conservancy, and other groups to highlight the successes of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. When: Thursday, October 5th, 2017 at 9:30am Where: Senate Swamp Background: The Land and Water Conservation Fund is one of the nation’s oldest and most successful conservation programs, which operates with no taxpayer funding. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) has introduced S. 896, a bill to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and Representative Raul Grijalva (D-AZ-3) has introduced similar legislation in the House. This vital program expires one year from now on September 30, 2018.
10.02.2017	10.02.17 Senator Burr’s Statement on Las Vegas Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada: “My heart is with the people of Las Vegas and their first responders today. This morning’s tragic violence has absolutely no place here in America. As we wait for a full accounting of events, Brooke and I will be praying for those lost and their families.”
09.29.2017	09.29.17 ADVISORY: Senate Intel Leaders to Hold Press Conference Next Week WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that they will hold a press conference on the status of the Committee’s inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections on Wednesday, October 4th at 12:15 pm. Details Press Conference: Chairman Burr and Vice Chairman Warner to provide update on Senate Intelligence Committee’s inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. When: Wednesday, October 4th, 2017 at 12:15 pm. Where: Senate Radio/TV Gallery Studio (S.325, U.S. Capitol) ###
09.27.2017	09.27.17 Burr Statement on Tax Reform: Time to Reform Our Broken Tax Code Is Now WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the recently released tax reform framework: “I’m very encouraged by the tax reform framework released today. With roughly half of Americans living paycheck to paycheck, the time to reform our broken tax code is now. We have a rare opportunity to bring relief to those who need it most by simplifying the code, unleashing the economy, promoting growth, and putting money back in the pockets of millions of North Carolinians and hardworking Americans. Today’s framework is an important step towards reaching these goals, and I look forward to working with Chairman Hatch and fellow members of the Senate Finance Committee as we use this framework to produce the vital legislation that our country needs.
09.19.2017	09.19.17 Senate Intel Committee Invites Cohen to Appear Before the Committee in Open Session WASHINGTON - Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) today announced that the Committee has invited Michael Cohen to appear before the Committee for an open hearing on Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 10:00 a.m.
09.19.2017	09.19.17 Senate Intel Leaders’ Statement on the Postponing of Michael Cohen’s Interview WASHINGTON - Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) today made the following announcement on the testimony of Michael Cohen: “We were disappointed that Mr. Cohen decided to pre-empt today’s interview by releasing a public statement prior to his engagement with Committee staff, in spite of the Committee’s requests that he refrain from public comment. As a result, we declined to move forward with today’s interview and will reschedule Mr. Cohen’s appearance before the Committee in open session at a date in the near future. The Committee expects witnesses in this investigation to work in good faith with the Senate.”
09.18.2017	09.18.17 Senator Burr’s Military Child Care Amendment Included in National Defense Authorization Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act: “Today, I voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. As Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and Senator from North Carolina, I understand the wide-range of threats that face our nation and how versatile our military must be to fight them. We cannot stand idly by as Iran, North Korea, Russia, ISIL, Al-Qaeda and others present a threat to the United States. For the previous eight years, our warfighters have been tasked to accomplish an increasingly large range of missions without the necessary resources to do so. Secretary of Defense Mattis and America’s military leaders have consistently stated that sequestration and short-term budgeting hinder their ability to address training and readiness shortfalls. “The Senate-passed NDAA addresses these issues and contains $358 million in military construction projects for North Carolina installations. It also includes my amendment improving standards for child care centers on military bases. It brings these centers in-line with standards for other federally funded child care centers and requires background checks for child care providers. Overall, this legislation continues an effort to rebuild our nation’s military and to keep our country safe. “I look forward to working with Chairman McCain and conferees to ensure they report a bill back to the Senate which ensures our military has the ability now, and in the future, to defend the United States and her interests abroad.”
09.15.2017	09.15.17 Burr Statement on Incident at Fort Bragg Leaving One Dead and Seven Injured WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) made the following statement on yesterday’s training accident at Fort Bragg, NC, leaving one special operations solider dead and seven soldiers injured: “My prayers go out to the family of Staff Sgt. Alexander Dalida who lost his life too soon in his service to our country. I am also praying for the other seven service members who were injured in yesterday’s tragic event. Those who serve take risks every day in their quest to keep our country safe. I’m remembering the Fort Bragg community in my prayers today and every day. We are forever indebted to Staff Sgt. Dalida for his sacrifice.”
09.14.2017	09.14.17 Sens. Burr, Cortez Masto Introduce Bill to Promote Innovation in America’s Transportation Projects WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) introduced the Moving and Fostering Innovation to Revolutionize Smarter Transportation or the Moving FIRST Act, a bill that will enhance the transportation systems of American communities through the use of innovative technology. This legislation will establish and build on the successes of the 2015 Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Cities Challenge administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) by expanding the opportunity for more communities – both urban and rural – to compete for resources that will fund efficient, creative and innovative transportation projects. “Our ability to harness technology and innovation is the key to overcoming the problems we face in the 21st Century,” said Sen. Burr. “This bill will provide cities and towns throughout North Carolina the opportunity to leverage technology and private investment to tackle their most pressing issues. Last year, Raleigh, Greensboro and Charlotte all put forward excellent proposals to make substantial technological improvements to these growing cities. This legislation will continue and expand the program for 5 more years, giving cities in North Carolina more opportunities to win the Smart Cities designation and funding. The proposals from our fast-growing cities included smart grids, expanded wifi hot spots, and self-driving commuter pods, which were all geared toward allowing data and technology to drive innovation in our cities. I’m supportive of expanding this Department of Transportation program because I know that North Carolina’s cities have even more ideas to offer to make these metropolitan areas more vibrant and cutting edge.” “Updating inefficient transportation systems by applying new technology will help our communities become better connected and improve our way of life,” said Sen. Cortez Masto. “I am pleased to introduce a bill that will encourage cities to innovate, address their communities’ unique challenges and help residents with their day-to-day transportation needs. This bill will establish the successful SMART Cities Challenge, and exciting projects by our Regional Transportation Commissions, by ensuring more communities can participate, while also cultivating more public-private partnerships that will address specific challenges facing our communities big and small.” Background The 2015 Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Cities Challenge was a competitive grant program administered by the USDOT that received 78 applications from cities around the country. Mid-sized cities were asked to submit applications that would implement integrated, first-of-its-kind smart transportation systems that would use data, applications, and technology to help people and goods move more quickly, cheaply, and efficiently. Cities, of varying size, from across the nation submitted their proposals, and in the end, Columbus, Ohio won a $40 million grant to implement their plan. To ensure all our communities are planning for the future, the Moving FIRST Act would authorize the program, and for the first time, set aside funding for communities of varying sizes. From large (populations ranging from 400,000 to 1 million) and mid-sized (75,000 to 400,000) cities to our rural communities and regional partnerships (populations ranging from 10,000 to 75,000), every corner of the country will be able to compete for resources that improve the quality of life of their residents with next generation transportation technology. In addition, the legislation will make applicants eligible for additional federal funding opportunities to advance their innovative projects. Whether it’s Wi-Fi access or eased transportation to the nearest health care center, urban and rural residents get multiple opportunities under the Moving FIRST Act. Allocations under the Moving FIRST Act: Large and mid-sized city awards: 2 awards annually, up to $50 million for a jurisdiction of each size, capped at $80 million total annually Rural community and regional partnerships: 2 awards annually, totaling up to $20 million total, which a requirement that no less than 20% of the available funding go to rural projects. In addition, the Moving FIRST Act makes SMART Challenge applications eligible to apply for other federal funding opportunities under other current USDOT programs.
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Burr Statement on Stationing of New Tankers at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the decision to station the new KC-46A tankers at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base: “Yesterday, I was notified by the Secretary of the Air Force of the final decision to base the KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. These 12 new KC-46A aircraft will serve as a vital tool for our military, providing any fixed-wing aircraft with mid-air refueling capabilities a prolonged amount of time in the air for use in either logistical or combat operations. For years, I have worked with Senator Tillis, our Senate colleagues, committees of jurisdiction, and the citizens of Goldsboro to advocate for the necessary funding required for the maintenance and operation of the KC-46As. This final decision could not be more timely, as the capable Airmen of Seymour Johnson are celebrating the 75th anniversary of the 4th Fighter wing this September. I appreciate all of the hard work by Secretary Wilson and the citizens of Goldsboro, and I am honored to have the opportunity to continue to advocate on behalf of all of our nation’s military assets in North Carolina.”
09.12.2017	09.12.17 Sens. Burr, Casey and Murkowski Introduce Bill to Make College More Affordable by Helping Families Save WASHINGTON –Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bob Casey (D-PA) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) introduced the Boost Saving for College Act, which will provide crucial new options for 529 college savings accounts to help more American families save more for college. This legislation would provide a tax credit to low- and middle-income families who might not ordinarily save for college, incentivize employers to match employee contributions to their college savings, allow unused savings to be rolled over into a Roth IRA retirement account, and enable families with a disabled child to rollover unused funds from their 529 account into an ABLE account. “College savings accounts are a great way to safely put away money to ensure a better future for your child,” said Senator Burr. “I have long advocated for making college more affordable through several bills, such as the legislation to reduce interest rates for student borrowers I authored with Senator Angus King (I-ME). The Boost Act is a commonsense bill that will give families more options for preparing their children for college without going into endless debt.” “An affordable college education is the firmest path to the middle class and a family sustaining income. Congress needs to do all it can to address the challenges that many families face in saving and paying for college,” said Senator Casey. “This legislation will help address some of those challenges by expanding commonsense savings tax credits for Pennsylvania families.” “Alaskan families deserve to have the flexibility to meet their own needs with their own money,” said Senator Murkowski. “The Boost Saving for College Act will do just that, by helping Alaskans to afford college in more ways, and getting federal tax penalties out of their way when things do not go as planned.” College savings accounts, also known as “529 accounts,” enable families to better prepare financially for the cost of sending their child to college. This program allows families to put their hard earned money in tax-free accounts to then pay for the vast array of higher education expenses such as tuition, fees, books, room and board, and computer equipment. This bipartisan legislation has been endorsed by 14 higher education associations, including the American Council on Education and the North Carolina State Education Assistance Authority (SEAA). As the cost of a college degree continues to increase, 529 accounts have become an excellent tool in order to avoid the crushing debt that can accompany student loans. Today, a degree from a two-year institution typically costs more than $19,000, and one from a four-year institution typically costs nearly $100,000. The Boost Saving for College Act would improve the 529 account program by making several key benefits available, such as: Allowing low- and middle-income families to take advantage of the Saver’s Credit for the savings they put away for college. Low and middle-income families can currently use the Saver’s Credit for contributions to retirement accounts. This bill would extend this credit to contributions an individual or family makes to a 529 account, boosting the savings they can put away for college. The Saver’s Credit is a nonrefundable tax credit that provides a savings match of as much as $1,000 for single filers and $2,000 for joint filers for retirement. The Boost Act would allow this savings match for 529 accounts. The amount of the credit depends on how much the household puts in the account as well as their income. For 2016, the Saver’s Credit is limited to those with incomes at or below $30,750 single, $46,125 head of household, and $61,500 joint, and is indexed to inflation. Encouraging employers to match the college savings of their employees. Today, many employers match their employees’ contributions to retirement. The Boost Act would allow employers to offer the same benefit to 529 accounts, with an annual match of up to $1,000. This employer match would be excluded from the employee’s gross income, which means the worker won’t be taxed when their employer makes a contribution to a 529 account owned by the employee or spouse. The beneficiary of the 529 account may be the employee, their spouse or their dependent. Allowing savings that aren’t needed for college to be rolled over into a Roth IRA. Perhaps a child decides not to go to college, or maybe the child earns enough in scholarships that they do not need all their college savings. Under current law, those families would be penalized for withdrawing the leftover funds. The Boost Act would allow those families to roll over such savings into a Roth IRA. In order to do so, the 529 account must have been open for at least 10 years. The 529 could be rolled over into the Roth IRA of the 529 account owner or their beneficiary. Enabling families with a disabled child to rollover a 529 Account into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before their child is even born, only to learn later that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child is in a tragic accident and becomes severely disabled. In such instances, these families have funds trapped in a 529 that they could use to help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If they withdraw the funds for anything other than college expenses, they face taxes on their withdrawals. The Boost Act would help these families by allowing them to rollover the funds in their 529 account to a 529A, or ABLE, account for their disabled child. ABLE accounts allow families to save for a disabled child’s future expenses in a tax-favored way.
09.07.2017	09.07.17 Sen. Burr Praises Interior Dept’s Announcement to Pay Swain County Overdue $4 Million Settlement WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Department of Interior’s decision to release $4 million in appropriated funds to Swain County, North Carolina: “The Department of Interior’s decision to compensate Swain County is well overdue, as it was initially appropriated in 2011. I support the Department’s decision and count it as a step in the right direction, but I will continue to press the Department to fully match Swain County’s expectations dating back to a decade-old agreement. When the federal government makes a promise, it should keep that promise. I will continue to work to hold the government accountable.”
08.30.2017	08.30.17 Burr Statement on President’s Plan to Reform Broken Tax Code WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding President Trump’s speech today in Springfield, Missouri. “I’m pleased by the President’s first steps forward in reforming our broken tax code. Americans have suffered for far too long under an increasingly complicated and burdensome system that suppresses growth and takes money out of the pockets of hard-working families. I have advocated for years in Congress for simplifying our tax code, lowering rates for everyone, and allowing individuals to save money and time filing their taxes. These commonsense solutions will allow our nation to again be the envy of the world when it comes to opportunity. I look forward to getting to work in the Finance Committee on the President’s proposals and finally bringing relief to the millions of Americans who desperately need it.”
08.18.2017	08.18.17 Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Terror Attacks in Spain WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding yesterday’s terror attacks in Spain. “My prayers are with the families of those killed and wounded in yesterday’s horrific attacks in Spain. I was saddened to hear that an American citizen was one of those killed and I stand in solidarity with the Spanish people and of all those nations who were affected. Terrorists are continuing to use simple weapons to inflict great harm on innocent people across the world. The attacks in Spain and today in Finland remind us that we must remain vigilant and continue our collective efforts to identify terrorists and thwart their attacks. I will continue to monitor this situation closely and will ensure that our nation provides any requested support to our European allies. “ ###
08.11.2017	08.11.17 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr to Present Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Additional Decorations, to Sergeant Ronnie Whitlow at Winston-Salem Office WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will present Sergeant Billy Ronald (Ronnie) Whitlow from Yanceyville, NC, with multiple decorations for his service to the country including the Bronze Star for heroic achievement of service and the Purple Heart for wounds received in action on 30 October 1969 in the Republic of Vietnam. Media wishing to attend should contact Sen. Burr’s office at press@burr.senate.gov Details WHERE: Senator Richard Burr’s Office, 2000 W. First Street, Suite 508, Winston-Salem, NC 27104 WHEN: Monday, August 14, 2017 at 9:30 A.M. Details on Billy Ronald (Ronnie) Whitlow’s Service: Branch of Service Veteran Served In: Army Unit Served In: Various Years of Service: 8/12/1968 – 4/7/1970 Medals to be presented: Bronze Star Medal with Letter V Device: For heroic or meritorious achievement of service, not involving aerial flight in connection with operations against an opposing armed force. Purple Heart: For wounds received in action on 30 October 1969 in the Republic of Vietnam Air Medal: Distinguished himself by meritorious achievement, while participating in sustained aerial flight, in support of combat ground forces in the Republic of Vietnam. During the period of 5 August 1969 to 30 October 1969, he actively participated in more than 25 aerial missions over hostile territory in support of counterinsurgency operations. National Defense Service Medal: Awarded for honorable active service as a member of the Armed Forces during the Vietnam War. Vietnam Service Medal with 3 Bronze Service Stars Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device (1960) Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar Marksman Badge with Auto Rifle Bar with Machine Gun Bar
08.02.2017	08.02.17 Burr and Tillis Statement on Recent VA Watchdog Findings at Salisbury VA Hospital WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) made the following statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs issued a report finding shortcomings at the W.G. (Bill) Hefner VA Medical Center, Salisbury, North Carolina: “This report serves as an important reminder of the necessary work that remains to be done to improve VA facilities in North Carolina and across the country. We’re grateful to the Office of Inspector General for catching these issues so they can be directly addressed and resolved. We will continue to work with the Salisbury VA and exercise close oversight to ensure that all necessary changes are implemented.”
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Sen. Burr Statement on Confirmation Hearing of Dr. Bob Kadlec to HHS Role WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on Dr. Robert Kadlec, the President’s nominee to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Preparedness and Response, testimony before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee: “I have worked with Bob in various capacities over the last few years and I am more than confident that he will bring consistent and strong leadership to the role of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act I authored with Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA), and the Pandemic and All-Hazards Reauthorization Act I authored with Senator Robert Casey (D-PA) provide the ASPR with necessary tools to protect Americans against public health threats we may face, whether naturally occurring or the result of a deliberate attack. Bob’s service to our country as an Air Force veteran and a physician make him well positioned to bring a deep understanding of the daily focus and urgency necessary to fulfill the role of the ASPR in leveraging these tools and managing our nation’s emergency preparedness and response capabilities. I am proud to see Bob move through the nomination process, and look forward to his confirmation.”
07.28.2017	07.28.17 Burr Statement on Health Care Legislation Vote: Senate Failed to Provide Relief from Obamacare WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding last night’s vote on health care legislation: “I am disappointed that the Senate could not pass legislation to address the health care crisis facing our country. Though we were unable to come to a resolution, our health care system is still broken, costs continue to rise, and Americans have fewer options for health care coverage. I will continue to keep my promise to North Carolinians by working to provide relief to families burdened by the unbearable weight of Obamacare.”
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Burr Reintroduces Bill to Clean up IRS Following Disastrous IG Report WASHINGTON –Today, following the critical report from the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA), Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) reintroduced a commonsense bill to improve accountability at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). S. 1643, the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act, will bar the IRS Commissioner from rehiring employees who separated from the agency due to substantiated conduct or performance issues. The report, The Internal Revenue Service Continues to Rehire Former Employees With Conduct and Performance Issues, found that hundreds of former IRS employees with documented issues were rehired by the agency in an 18-month span. This is the second TIGTA report finding a widespread practice of rehiring previously fired IRS employees, and is the result of a request from Sen. Burr in 2016 following testimony by IRS Commissioner John Koskinen that the agency had put an end to this practice. “The rampant abuse at the IRS has continued and thrived for far too long,” said Senator Burr. “Whether it is the rehiring of previously terminated employees or continuing to give bonuses to poorly performing executives who can’t be fired – the delinquency at the IRS must end. It’s exactly actions like this that erode the public’s trust in their government. The American people are sick and tired of Washington at its worst. We have Americans paying the salaries of IRS workers who have repeatedly cheated the very government they took an oath to serve, and a Commissioner who won’t fire bad actors. The time to put a stop to these atrocious practices is now.” Bill text can be found here.
07.27.2017	07.27.17 2018 Intel Authorization Act Clears Committee WASHINGTON - Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) today announced the committee voted 14-1 to approve the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill’s next step will be consideration before the full Senate. Senator Burr: “As a nation, we are facing an unprecedented range of threats. State actors like Iran and North Korea continue their provocative missile programs while non-state terrorist groups like ISIS and al-Qa’ida are redoubling their efforts to attack American interests and to find gaps in our aviation security. Meanwhile, we continue the Committee’s inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. All too often, the burden of protecting our citizens from harm falls on the men and women of our intelligence community and their ability to identify threats clearly and early. The overwhelming bipartisan support for this bill shows that we all understand the gravity of the threats and how vital our intelligence community is to combatting them. We are holding the intelligence community to account for every dollar they spend, and we are committed to giving them the resources they need to continue to be the best in the world.” Senator Warner: “This Intelligence Authorization Act will provide the women and men of the Intelligence Community with the resources they need to do their jobs, which is to collect and analyze intelligence and present their best assessment to the nation’s leadership. In a year in which intelligence professionals have too often come under unjustified disparagement, they must continue to do what they do best, and the Committee has passed a solid, bipartisan bill to give them the resources they need while maintaining strong oversight of their activities. This bill contains important reforms to security clearance procedures, and continues the initiatives this Committee has undertaken over the last several years to push the Intelligence Community to be more innovative in its approach to overhead satellite systems. It also includes important measures to protect election systems and improve information sharing with states to ensure the integrity of the election process.” About the Bill: The bill authorizes funding for the United States Intelligence Community, bolsters Congressional oversight, and provides appropriate legal authorities. Our priorities, as reflected in the bill, include: Ensuring the IC is well-positioned to detect cyberattacks and fully understand the capabilities of a wide range of nefarious actors. Recruiting the best and brightest from every background and every needed skill set, getting them clearances quickly, and giving them the resources they need to meet these challenges. Strengthening federal information sharing with state-level election officials. Together, we will ensure our voting systems are well-insulated from those who seek to undermine our democracy. Sending a message to Moscow that we will not accept their aggressive actions. We will protect this nation and our allies with all the elements of state power. Capitalizing on advancements in technology to make our intelligence services more effective, agile, and efficient, and to reinforce their status as the best in the world.
07.27.2017	07.27.17 IRS Watchdog’s Report Finds New Cases of Repeated Hiring Abuses Burr: Koskinen Cannot Leave Fast Enough WASHINGTON – Today, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) released the findings of their report: The Internal Revenue Service Continues to Rehire Former Employees with Conduct and Performance Issues. The independent watchdog found that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) continues to rehire employees who were previously terminated from the agency for documented misconduct or performance issues. In fact, the watchdog found that between January 2015 and March 2016, the IRS rehired hundreds of former employees with prior substantiated performance or conduct issues, including willful failure to file taxes, repeated falsification of official documents and threatening co-workers. The watchdog found that these practices continue in spite of a previous TIGTA report in 2014 with similar findings. During a Senate Finance hearing in 2016, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) asked IRS Commissioner John Koskinen whether the practice of rehiring employees previously dismissed for cause was still occurring under his watch. Koskinen replied, “We do not hire people with prior performance issues.” Today’s report shows otherwise. Senator Burr requested this TIGTA report in February 2016 (Image from page 5 of the TIGTA report) Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on TIGTA’s findings: “The American people learned today that, in spite of denials to Congress, the IRS continues a wholly unacceptable practice of rehiring known bad actors. In this mind boggling abuse of taxpayer money, we now know that Commissioner Koskinen has failed to stop this practice, even after personal assurances to me that the practice had ended under his tenure. North Carolinians cannot conceive of a scenario where they could be fired for misconduct or lying on their application forms and then get their jobs back. Yet somehow, these delinquent IRS employees manage to get rehired by the very agency tasked with collecting taxpayer money. It’s a spectacular abuse of our government’s coffers, and we are in desperate need of a leader who can get these abusers out of our government. This is precisely what is wrong with our government and why Americans are tired of Washington’s inability to steward taxpayer money. Furthermore, Koskinen couldn’t even have his facts right when I asked him for a direct answer in person. Koskinen cannot leave fast enough for me.” FLASHBACK: Koskinen Assures Burr in 2016 the IRS No Longer Rehires Delinquent Employees Watch Burr question Koskinen Here
07.25.2017	07.25.17 Burr Statement on Today’s Senate Health Care Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding the Senate’s vote to proceed with debate on health care legislation: “I am glad the Senate has finally begun to build a solution to the health care crisis facing our nation. This debate will allow each and every Senator the opportunity to bring forward their ideas for consideration through an unlimited amendment process. It is my hope that at the end of this process we will pass legislation fulfilling our promise to the American people: repealing and replacing Obamacare.”
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Burr: No One Is Tougher Than John McCain WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr released the following statement regarding Senator John McCain’s most recent battle: “John McCain is a tough, principled man and one of the most dedicated soldiers and civil servants I’ve ever had the pleasure to know. His love for country and family is unbreakable, and I know he will face this newest battle with the same passion and grit that he has shown time and again. Brooke and I join a grateful nation in sending our prayers and support to Senator McCain and his family.”
07.14.2017	07.14.17 Burr & Tillis Welcome Nomination of Bobby Higdon as U.S. Attorney WASHINGTON –Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Bobby Higdon to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. “Mr. Higdon is an excellent choice to serve as the U.S. Attorney for North Carolina’s Eastern District,” said Senator Richard Burr. “He has extensive legal expertise, having served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Western and Eastern Districts of North Carolina, and will provide fair and experienced leadership in this role.” “Bobby Higdon is an incredibly qualified choice for U.S. Attorney, holding decades of prosecutorial experience,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Eastern North Carolina will benefit from Bobby’s leadership.” Mr. Higdon has a long and decorated career as a federal prosecutor, handling many high profile cases. He also has significant management experience as former criminal chief in the Eastern District of North Carolina. Mr. Higdon earned his law degree from the Wake Forest School of Law. He is currently a partner at Williams Mullen and resides in Cary, North Carolina.
07.14.2017	07.14.17 Senate Intel to Hold Confirmation Hearing for Key Administration Intelligence Posts WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a confirmation hearing next week on the nomination of Susan Gordon to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence preceded by Robert P. Storch to be Inspector General of the National Security Agency and Isabela Patelunas to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of the Treasury. Details Hearing Panel 1: Hearing on the Nomination of Robert Storch and Isabela Patelunas Witnesses: Robert P. Storch to be Inspector General of the National Security Agency. Isabela Patelunas to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of the Treasury. When: Wednesday, July 19th 2017 at 9:00 am. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 Hearing Panel 2: Hearing on the Nomination of Susan Gordon Witness: Susan Gordon to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence When: Wednesday, July 19th 2017 following the conclusion of the previous panel. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 Hearings are expected to conclude at approximately 12:30 pm.
07.13.2017	07.13.17 Burr and Tillis Welcome Nomination of Thomas Farr as District Judge for Eastern North Carolina WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Thomas Farr to fill the United States District Court vacancy for the Eastern District of North Carolina. “I am pleased once again to support Thomas Farr for District Judge of the Eastern District of North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “Mr. Farr was previously nominated for this judgeship in 2006. His wealth of experience will serve North Carolina well.” “Thomas Farr is widely respected as one of the best legal minds in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “He is impeccably qualified and I am confident he will be an independent-minded judge committed to fairness and will faithfully apply the law.” Mr. Farr has tried cases in federal and state courts in North Carolina and has handled appeals at all levels of the North Carolina appellate courts, the Fourth and Sixth Circuit Courts of Appeal, and the Supreme Court. In 2006, Mr. Farr was nominated by President George W. Bush to fill the very same vacancy on the U.S. District Court, and the American Bar Association rated him as unanimously well-qualified. Mr. Farr graduated from Emory University and holds an LL.M. in Labor Law from Georgetown University.
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Senator Burr Statement on the Crash of KC-130 in Mississippi WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement after a KC-130 that departed from Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point crashed in Mississippi, leading to the deaths of 16 on board: “My prayers are with the families of the fifteen Marines and one Navy corpsman who lost their lives in yesterday’s accident. Sadly, we fear that seven of these individuals hailed from Camp Lejeune. Every day, our bravest men and women put their lives on the line to ensure our freedoms. I’m heartbroken that this tragic event has happened, and I stand with the Unites States Marine Corps and the United States Navy as they mourn the losses of their own.”
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on President Trump’s Intent to Nominate Susan Gordon to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence WASHINGTON – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on President Trump’s announced intent to nominate Susan M. Gordon to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence: “I know Sue well, and I am pleased that the President is nominating her to this crucial post. She has a wealth of experience and will provide valued support and counsel to Director Coats and her unmatched expertise on cyber issues will help the DNI lead our Intelligence Community’s efforts to collect on, and protect against, the growing number of threats to our nation. She is an excellent choice and I look forward to supporting her nomination.”
06.26.2017	06.26.17 Senate Intel Committee to Hold Confirmation Hearing for DHS Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold a confirmation hearing on the nomination of David Glawe to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security on Wednesday, June 28th at 8:30 am. Details Hearing: Hearing on the Nomination of David Glawe to be Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security Witnesses: Mr. David Glawe When: Wednesday, June 28, 2017 at 8:30-10:00 am. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
06.23.2017	06.23.17 Senate Intel Committee to Hold Open Hearing Next Week on Russian Intervention in European Elections WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing on June 28, 2017 to examine Russia’s interference in recent and future European elections. The witnesses will address Russian activities in the French and Montenegrin elections and look forward to Germany’s fall election. This will be the latest in a series of open hearings to provide for the American people further context and understanding of Russian efforts to undermine democratic institutions at home and abroad. Details Hearing: Russian Intervention in European Elections Witnesses: Ambassador Nicholas Burns, Roy and Barbara Goodman Family Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Relations, Harvard Kennedy School of Government Mr. Janis Sarts, Director, NATO Strategic Communication Center of Excellence Ambassador Vesko Garcevic, Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Relations, Frederick Pardee School of Global Studies, Boston University Dr. Constanze Stelzenmueller, Bosch Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution When: Wednesday June 28, 2017 at 10:00 am Eastern Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
06.22.2017	06.22.17 Sen. Burr Statement on Discussion Draft of Health Care Bill WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Better Care Reconciliation Act of 2017, the Senate Republican health care discussion draft legislation that will help stabilize the collapsing insurance markets that have left millions of Americans with few options: “This draft legislation outlines a number of initiatives that are good for North Carolina. While not perfect, the bill does provide the funding we need to support our most vulnerable North Carolinians. I’m encouraged that it keeps the law protecting people with pre-existing conditions. The legislation also reverses $31 billion in cuts made to Medicaid by Obamacare, extends millions of dollars in funding to our Community Health Centers, and provides $2 billion to the fight against the opioid epidemic.” The following policies will benefit North Carolinians and provide relief from the broken promises, high costs, and few choices created by Obamacare: Protecting North Carolinians with Pre-existing Conditions: The Senate bill keeps current-law protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions, prohibiting the denial of health insurance coverage for this reason. It also continues the prohibition against lifetime limits on insurance plans and lets children maintain coverage on their parents’ plans until age 26. Strengthening North Carolina Medicaid: Restores hundreds of millions of Medicaid dollars to North Carolina hospitals and health systems that serve our most vulnerable, reversing the cuts made to Medicaid by Obamacare. Increases Medicaid funding for doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers that participate in the Medicaid program in North Carolina. Combatting the Opioid Crisis: Provides $2 billion in additional resources to battle the opioid epidemic in 2018. Maintaining Access to Care: North Carolina is proud to have over 200 Community Health Center (CHC) sites that provide care to 480,000 North Carolinians. This legislation provides an additional $422 million to CHCs across the country to ensure they can continue to provide access to care in rural and hard to reach places, including in North Carolina. Improving the Insurance Market: Better targets the tax credit to low-income individuals, with an additional 219,000 North Carolinians now eligible to receive a subsidy to help pay for their health insurance plan, and decreasing the subsidy for higher earners. Premiums in North Carolina have seen double digit increases every year since Obamacare went into place. With the inclusion of cost sharing reduction (CSR) payments in this bill, 2018 would be the first year since Obamacare was put in to place that many North Carolinians do not experience a double digit increase in the cost of their health insurance premium. Stabilizes the individual insurance market for the almost 600,000 North Carolinians who currently rely on the insurance exchange, providing insurers with more flexibility to bring down prices and increase choices. Supporting North Carolina’s Economy: A recent report shows the medical device tax could cost our country 53,000 jobs by 2021 – many medical device innovators call North Carolina home, and the repeal of this tax will allow for new and innovative medical devices to reach Americans more quickly, and maintain these jobs in North Carolina.
06.20.2017	06.20.17 Senate Confirms NC Native Brock Long to Lead FEMA WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Senate voted 95-4 to confirm North Carolina native William B. “Brock” Long to be Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Long is a graduate of Appalachian State University, and currently lives with his family in Hickory, North Carolina. “Having strong disaster preparedness and recovery infrastructure is critically important for North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “Brock Long understands that it is the work done before a storm that saves lives. Helping states and cities establish emergency management plans allows funding and assistance to flow almost immediately after the storm has passed. Brock will put his wealth of experience to good use at FEMA.” “The tragic flooding and devastation caused by Hurricane Matthew demonstrated why having a responsive and effective FEMA is vital to saving lives and mitigating the loss of property during natural disasters,” said Senator Tillis. “Brock Long is a North Carolina native who has an impressive track record, and he will bring an intimate understanding of the unique needs of our state when it comes to flood management and disaster recovery.” WATCH: Burr: I urge my colleagues to confirm Brock Long
06.16.2017	06.16.17 Senate Intel Committee to Hold Open Hearing Next Week on U.S. Election Security and Outlook for 2018 and Beyond WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing on June 21st to further examine Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. The hearing will feature two panels and will focus closely on Russia’s cyber efforts against our election systems in 2016, our response efforts, potential threats to our 2018 and 2020 elections, and how we are postured to protect against those threats. The first panel will include expert witnesses from DHS and FBI to discuss the intelligence community’s unclassified assessment of the Russian intervention and US Government efforts to mitigate the ongoing threat. The second panel will include witnesses from the Illinois State Board of Elections, the National Association of State Election Directors, and an expert on election security. Details Hearing: US Election Security: Russian Interventions and the Outlook for 2018 and Beyond Witnesses: Panel 1 Dr. Sam Liles, Acting Director, Office of Intelligence and Analysis Cyber Division, DHS Brandon Wales, Director, National Protection and Programs Directorate Office of Cyber and Infrastructure Analysis, DHS Bill Priestap, Assistant Director, Counterintelligence Division, FBI Panel 2 Michael Haas, Midwest Regional Representative, National Association of State Election Directors Dr. J. Alex Halderman, Professor of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Michigan Steve Sandvoss, Executive Director, Illinois State Board of Elections When: Wednesday June 21st, 2017 at 9.30 am Eastern Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Joint Statement from Senate Intel Committee Leaders after Meeting with DNI Coats WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement after a closed Committee hearing with Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats: “The Committee today met with Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats to clear up a number of questions that remained from his appearance in open session last Wednesday. He also briefed the Committee on the President's Fiscal Year 2018 budget request for the National Intelligence Program.”
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Veterans Committee Considers Bill to Provide Care for Camp Lejeune Toxic Exposure Victims WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee considered the The Janey Ensminger Act of 2017. Sponsored by Senators Richard Bur (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC), the bill requires the Veterans Administration (VA) to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune. Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are also sponsors. The legislation is named for Janey Ensminger, the daughter of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, who was born on base at Camp Lejeune and died as a result of exposure to toxic chemicals. “I will not stop fighting for justice for the victims of Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Burr. “There remain many obstacles for us to overcome. I thank Jerry Ensminger for his tireless efforts at holding the VA accountable and improving the lives of all who suffer from illnesses incurred at Camp Lejeune. No one has been a better advocate for these individuals, and I cannot commend him highly enough for his steadfast determination.” “The veterans and families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune deserve health care based upon the best and most up to date scientific information available,” said Senator Tillis. “The Janey Ensminger Act ensures that science will be prioritized over budgets and that we place our trust in the federal government’s scientific experts outside of the VA, not VA and OMB bureaucrats. Thank you to Jerry Ensminger and Senator Burr for their dedication to this issue on behalf of Camp Lejeune veterans and their loved ones.” The legislation also requires that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, review all relevant scientific literature every three years to determine if sufficient or modest causal links have been found between toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune and additional diseases and conditions. This will ensure that veterans and their families will not have to wait to get medical care as researchers learn more about the long-term health consequences of the toxins found in the water at Camp Lejeune. Master Sergeant Ensminger has been a tireless advocate for members of the military and their families that were harmed by toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune. In September 2015, Ensminger testified before the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. WATCH: Ensminger: Janey is but one example of the multitude of tragedies suffered by former Camp Lejeune families who were exposed by this negligence. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This law, authored by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. However, the VA has resisted providing health care benefits to many of these veterans and their family members because it has not recognized the scientific links between the exposure to toxins and certain diseases that have been found by government researchers at the ATSDR. Earlier this year, the Department of Veteran’s Affairs began granting compensation to veterans suffering from illnesses caused by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987 and are suffering from a service connected illness are now eligible to receive disability compensation. Text of the Janey Ensminger Act of 2017 is available here. A one pager on the legislation is available here.
06.14.2017	06.14.17 Joint Statement from Senate Intel Committee Leaders after Meeting with Special Counsel Mueller WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement after meeting with Special Counsel Robert Mueller: “We had a constructive meeting with the Special Counsel today and we look forward to future engagements.”
06.12.2017	06.12.17 Attorney General Sessions to Testify at Senate Intel Committee Tomorrow WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that Attorney General Jeff Sessions will testify before the Committee on June 13, 2017. The hearing will begin at 2:30 pm in open session. Details Hearing Topic: Open Testimony of Attorney General of the United States, Jeff Sessions Witness: Attorney General Jeff Sessions When: Open session on Tuesday June 13, 2017 at 2:30 pm Eastern. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
06.07.2017	06.07.17 Notification: SSCI Releases Comey Written Statement for the Record WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, have made available on the Committee's website the opening statement of former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation James Comey in advance of the Committee’s open hearing on Thursday morning at 10 am EST. The statement is available here.
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Confirmation of CIA General Council Courtney Simmons Elwood WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Courtney Simmons Elwood to serve as General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Courtney Simmons Elwood is a distinguished attorney who helped guide our nation though the national security challenges following the attacks on September 11, 2001. I am confident she will ensure that the CIA is operating in a lawful, ethical, and moral manner as we continue to confront growing threats to our nation and our partners around the globe.”
06.02.2017	06.02.17 Senate Intel Committee to Hold FISA Hearing Next Week WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) on Wednesday, June 7, 2017, at 10:00 a.m. Appearing before the Committee will be Director of National Intelligence, Daniel Coats; Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Andrew McCabe; National Security Agency Director, Admiral Mike Rogers; and the Department of Justice Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The witnesses will provide a comprehensive overview of FISA’s authorities, current oversight mechanisms, and examples of the value this court-authorized collection provides to the United States Intelligence Community. The hearing will move into closed session following the open session. Details Hearing: Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Witnesses: Director Daniel Coats of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence Acting Director Andrew McCabe of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Admiral Mike Rogers, Director of the National Security Agency Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein of the Department of Justice When: Wednesday, June 7, 2017 at 10:00 a.m. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
06.01.2017	06.01.17 Former FBI Director Comey to Testify at Senate Intel Committee Next Week WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation James Comey will testify before the Committee on June 8th, 2017. The hearing will begin at 10 am in open session. The open session will be followed by a closed session at 1 pm. Details Hearing Topic: Russian Federation Efforts to Interfere in the 2016 U.S. Elections Witness: Former FBI Director James Comey When: Open Session on Thursday, June 8th 2017 at 10 am eastern. Closed Session to follow at 1 pm eastern. Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
05.25.2017	05.25.17 Notification: Senate Intel Committee Grants Chairman and Vice Chairman Authority to Issue Subpoenas WASHINGTON –Today, as part of the ongoing Senate Select Committee on Intelligence investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 U.S. elections, the Committee voted unanimously to grant Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) blanket authority to issue subpoenas as they deem necessary.
05.22.2017	05.22.17 Intel Committee Joint Statement on Flynn’s Refusal to Comply with SSCI’s Subpoena WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI), and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement after the Committee received notification from Lieutenant General Michael Flynn’s (Ret.) counsel that he would decline the request for an interview and the production of subpoenaed documents: “While we recognize General Flynn’s constitutional right to invoke the Fifth Amendment, we are disappointed he has chosen to disregard the Committee’s subpoena request for documents relevant and necessary to our investigation. We will vigorously pursue General Flynn’s testimony and his production of any and all pertinent materials pursuant to the Committee’s authorities.”
05.19.2017	05.19.17 Former FBI Director Comey Agrees to Testify in Open Session at Senate Intel Committee WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey has committed to testify in open session before the Committee. The Committee will schedule the open hearing after Memorial Day. “The Committee looks forward to receiving testimony from the former Director on his role in the development of the Intelligence Community Assessment on Russian interference in the 2016 US elections, and I am hopeful that he will clarify for the American people recent events that have been broadly reported in the media,” said Senator Burr. “I hope that former Director Comey’s testimony will help answer some of the questions that have arisen since Director Comey was so suddenly dismissed by the President. I also expect that Director Comey will be able to shed light on issues critical to this Committee’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election,” said Senator Warner. “Director Comey served his country with honor for many years, and he deserves an opportunity to tell his story. Moreover, the American people deserve an opportunity to hear it.”
05.18.2017	05.18.17 King, Burr Renew Bipartisan Push to Simplify Student Loan Repayment Programs WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Angus King (I-Maine) and Richard Burr (R-N.C.), along with Senators Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), today reintroduced legislation to reform federal student loan repayment programs. The Repay Act, which Senators King and Burr originally introduced in 2014, would simplify the complex maze of federal student loan repayment programs by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into two plans: a fixed repayment plan, based on a 10-year period, and a single, simplified income-driven repayment option. “The federal government’s student loan repayment programs, although well-intentioned, have grown to be complicated and confusing and no longer serve the best interests of America’s students or the taxpayers,” Senator King said. “The government should be making it easier for students to pursue their dreams after graduation – not saddle them with the added anxiety of wading through perplexing government paperwork. This bipartisan proposal simplifies loan repayment by consolidating many of the benefits of the existing plans, making it easier for students to decide which option best fits their needs, and lowering the chance they will default on their payments.” “The current student loan repayment programs are too complicated and too expensive,” said Senator Burr. “The Repay Act has two very simple goals: first, give students straightforward options on how to repay their student loan debt; and second, limit the excessive taxpayer-funded subsides that are incentivizing families and students to borrow too much. We have made a lot of progress in reducing student loan interest rates. The Repay Act is an important next step toward improving higher education financing options for students and families.” “With student loan debt at record levels and tuition more than doubling in just a decade, a lot of talented kids feel like college is financially out of reach,” Senator Portman said. “The Repay Act would ensure that they would never have to pay more than 15 percent of their disposable income in student loans. That would help them manage their day-to-day expenses, so that they wouldn’t have to put off milestones like buying a house. This legislation would benefit all of us because it would help our economy. More importantly, it would give millions of American families stability and peace of mind.” “Higher education is the key to opportunity and the best way to keep the United States competitive in the global marketplace, and to keep the best and brightest in West Virginia. But, burdening our students with trillions in student loan debt only hinders our progress as a nation,” Senator Manchin said. “I’m glad to join my colleagues on this bipartisan legislation that will simplify loan repayments for students and families so they can focus on getting the best education they can and being a productive member of society.” “The Repay Act streamlines the federal loan program and ensures that graduates have affordable payment options in a way that is simple and intuitive,” Senator Warner said. “This bill incorporates several of the concepts from legislation I have introduced with Senator Rubio, and I am encouraged to join this bipartisan group of colleagues in advocating for these much-needed reforms. Virginia students, graduates, and families are looking for student loan reforms that allow them to meet their obligations while also providing necessary protections.” “Today, thousands of Granite Staters are struggling with the increasing costs of higher education, which is why we need to do everything we can to make college more affordable and accessible,” said Senator Shaheen. “The Repay Act is a bipartisan effort to streamline the complicated maze of federal student loan repayment and help students manage their debt and save money on their loans. Students should be able to pursue higher education with the confidence that they can effectively manage and repay their loans.” “Education plays a vital role in opening the doors of opportunity to all Americans. Having worked at Husson University in Bangor, I know firsthand how critical financial aid is to students and their families,” said Senator Collins. “By simplifying the government’s student loan repayment programs, our legislation will help students and their families determine which options work best for them when making important decisions about borrowing for college.” Current graduates face a maze of federal student loan repayment programs from which to choose that often leave students confused about which program best fits their needs. In addition, due to years of changing eligibility terms and the introduction of new programs, little has been done to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not misdirected in subsidizing borrowers who do not need additional assistance. The Repay Act addresses those issues to make loan repayment more affordable for the middle class by eliminating duplicative repayment options, streamlining eligibility terms, and ensuring that borrowers will never direct more than 15 percent of their discretionary income to their loan payments. The proposal also ends the disproportionate federal subsidization of loan payments for high income borrowers and sets parameters for the amount of debt that can be forgiven over certain periods of time. This legislation is estimated to save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars over the next decade. To read more about the Repay Act, click HERE, and to see the full legislative text, click HERE.
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Joint Statement from Senate Intel Committee Leaders on Special Counsel Appointment WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following statement on the appointment of Robert Mueller as Special Counsel: “The appointment of former FBI Director and respected lawyer Robert Mueller as special counsel for the Russia investigation is a positive development and will provide some certainty for the American people that the investigation will proceed fairly and free of political influence. “The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence will continue its own investigation and to the extent any deconfliction is required, we will engage with Director Mueller and our expectation is that he will engage with the Committee as well.”
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Bipartisan Coalition of Senators Call For Continued Funding of Land and Water Conservation Program (Washington, DC) – A bipartisan coalition of 48 senators are urging the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies to support the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and Forest Legacy Program, the nation’s federal conservation program, as they begin considerations for the upcoming fiscal year. The letter was led by U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Susan Collins (R-ME), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Jon Tester (D-MT). The LWCF and Forest Legacy Program has funded more than 40,000 state and local outdoor recreation projects in all fifty states and have protected more than 2.5 million acres of land. “From protecting wildlife habitat, natural resource lands, outdoor recreation opportunities, and working forests at the local, state and federal levels, to expanding hunting and fishing access, the LWCF and Forest Legacy conserve important lands for current and future generations,” wrote the senators. “Continued investments in these programs help our nation’s outdoor recreation, conservation and preservation economy, which supports millions of American jobs and contributes billions of dollars annually to the entire U.S. economy.” The senators continued, “The programs funded by the LWCF, including Forest Legacy, the state-side program, endangered species grants, and battlefield protection, provide a diverse array of conservation tools to address national, state, local and regionally driven priorities across the country… Moreover, Forest Legacy supports working forest projects that help critical timberlands forested and accessible, and provides jobs in rural communities.” The Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1964 established one of America’s most successful conservation programs that supports the nation’s land, water, historic and recreational heritage. The program also supports America’s outdoor recreation, conservation and preservation economies, which contribute more than $1 trillion to the nation’s economy each year and support 9.4 million American jobs. The Forest Legacy Program assists states and private forest owners to maintain working forest lands The senators’ letter can be found here. Other senators who signed the letter are: Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tom Carper (D-DE), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Bob Casey (D-PA), Edward Markey (D-MA), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Michael Crapo (R-ID), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Al Franken (D-MN), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Angus King (I-ME), James Risch (R-ID), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Chris Coons (D-DE), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Mark Warner (D-VA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), and Catherine Cortez-Masto (D-NV).
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Notification: Senate Intel Committee Seeks Additional Information from Comey, McCabe WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following notification on ongoing investigation into Russia’s efforts to influence the 2016 US elections: Today, the Committee sent two additional letters seeking information related to the Committee’s ongoing investigation. The first was sent to former FBI Director James Comey seeking his appearance before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in both open and closed sessions. The second was sent to Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe, seeking any notes or memorandum prepared by the former Director regarding any communications he may have had with senior White House and Department of Justice officials related to investigations into Russia’s efforts.
05.11.2017	05.11.17 Burr, Tillis, and Jones Work to Protect Corolla Wild Horses WASHINGTON -- Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, a bill to provide for the responsible management of the wild-horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. Representative Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “The Corolla horses are one of our many natural state treasures and I am proud to introduce legislation that will provide for the preservation of these wild-roaming horses that have inhabited North Carolina for hundreds of years,” said Senator Burr. “The beauty of the Corolla horses draws people from across North Carolina and the country to witness these wild animals in their natural habitat. Starting in 2011, I’ve made several efforts to ensure that our local communities have the tools they need to manage these herds without excessive bureaucratic involvement. I hope my colleagues will move swiftly to consider this legislation.” “A cherished part of our state’s history and an admired attraction, thousands of tourists visit North Carolina’s beaches each year to witness the majestic nature of the Corolla horses,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “This legislation will take the necessary and proper steps in protecting the health and safety of the wild animals and their habitat, while encouraging continued tourism and economic investment for our local coastal communities.” “The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act will ensure the herd of free-roaming horses in Currituck County have the resources to thrive long into the future,” said Congressman Jones. “I will continue to fight for the longevity of the herd, so that our children and grandchildren will be able to experience this piece of North Carolina heritage for generations to come.” The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of North Carolina, Currituck County and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to craft a new management plan to care for the wild horses that inhabit the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The Corolla wild horses do not exist anywhere else in the world. Their lineage can be traced back to the arrival of Spanish explorers on the Outer Banks in the 16th century. They are Colonial Spanish mustangs that have survived in the wild for the last four centuries and now roam across Currituck County, North Carolina. This legislation is supported by The Humane Society and American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
05.11.2017	05.11.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of USTR Lighthizer WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the Senate approval of Robert Lighthizer to be the United States Trade Representative: “I am pleased by the overwhelmingly bipartisan vote in support of Robert Lighthizer to be the United States Trade Representative. Mr. Lighthizer has decades of trade experience and understands the importance of enforcing our trade rules. I look forward to working with him to open new opportunities for American workers and business to sell their goods and services abroad and to ensure that our trading partners are living by their commitments.”
05.10.2017	05.10.17 Notification: Senate Intel Committee Subpoenas Former National Security Advisor Flynn for Documents Regarding Russia Probe WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, announced that Senate Select Committee on Intelligence today issued a subpoena for former National Security Advisor Lieutenant General Michael Flynn. The subpoena requests documents relevant to the Committee’s investigation into Russian interference with the 2016 election. The Committee first requested these documents in an April 28, 2017 letter to Lieutenant General Flynn, but he declined, through counsel, to cooperate with the Committee’s request.
05.10.2017	05.10.17 Bipartisan Law Maintains Low Student Loan Interest Rates WASHINGTON – Today, the Treasury Department announced that federal student loan interest rates will remain near a historic low at 4.45 percent, down from a peak of 6.8 percent in 2012. In 2013, when government-set student loan interest rates were scheduled to double, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Angus King (I-ME), and Joe Manchin (D-WV) wrote the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act to let student borrowers take advantage of lower marketplace interest rates. The law, which went into effect in 2013, has saved students and families $58 billion. “This is a true victory of bipartisanship,” said Senator Burr. “The old system of letting Congress legislate student loan interest rates wasn’t working; it was causing uncertainty and it was costing young people a lot of money. I was proud to work with Senators King and Manchin on a plan to tie student loan interest rates to the market, and I’m even prouder now that our law has continued to save families in North Carolina and across the country billions of dollars.” “The bipartisan student loan agreement continues to reap dividends for students across Maine and the nation, saving them billions of dollars over the last four years,” Senator King said. “That’s money they can begin investing in their future, rather than being buried under a mountain of debt. The student loan deal we struck back in 2013 demonstrates what legislating and compromise looks like, and I hope this Congress will look to it as an example of the good we can do for the American people when we put politics aside and work on their behalf.” “This is how the Senate is supposed to work and I consider this a win for bipartisanship,” Senator Manchin said. “I was proud to come together to pass a commonsense, long-term fix that lowered interest rates on federal student loans. This legislation lowered costs for students and provided them with the opportunity to help lead America to a better future for generations to come.”
05.10.2017	05.10.17 UPDATED Senate Intelligence Committee to Hold World Wide Threats Hearing Next Week WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, updated the witness list for the annual World Wide Threats hearing in open session on Thursday, May 11, 2017, at 10:00 a.m. Witnesses will include Director of National Intelligence, Daniel Coats; Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo; Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Andrew McCabe; National Security Agency Director, Admiral Mike Rogers; National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Director, Robert Cardillo; and the Defense Intelligence Agency Director, Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart. The witnesses will provide a comprehensive overview of the current and projected national security threats to the United States and our national interests, both at home and abroad. The hearing will move into closed session following the open session. Details Hearing: World Wide Threats Witnesses: Director Daniel Coats of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence; Director Mike Pompeo of the Central Intelligence Agency; *Acting Director Andrew McCabe of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Admiral Mike Rogers, Director of the National Security Agency; Director Robert Cardillo of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency; Lieutenant General Vincent Stewart, Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency. When: Thursday, May 11th 2017 at 10:00 am Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Statement from Senate Intel Chairman Burr on the Dismissal of FBI Director Comey WASHINGTON – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the dismissal of James Comey, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation: “I am troubled by the timing and reasoning of Director Comey’s termination. I have found Director Comey to be a public servant of the highest order, and his dismissal further confuses an already difficult investigation by the Committee. In my interactions with the Director and with the Bureau under his leadership, he and the FBI have always been straightforward with our Committee. Director Comey has been more forthcoming with information than any FBI Director I can recall in my tenure on the congressional intelligence committees. His dismissal, I believe, is a loss for the Bureau and the nation.”
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of FDA Commissioner Gottlieb WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Dr. Scott Gottlieb to lead the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, released the following statement: “I am glad the Senate could come together and confirm Dr. Gottlieb to lead the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA is charged with regulating products that touch the lives of millions of Americans every day, and Dr. Gottlieb is well prepared for the job at hand. I look forward to working with Dr. Gottlieb to promote policies that accelerate innovation at such an exciting time and bring forward solutions to our nation’s public health challenges.”
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Senators Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Reduce Veteran Homelessness WASHINGTON -- Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Jon Tester (D-MT) introduced the Homeless Veterans Prevention Act of 2017. This legislation would build on existing homeless veterans programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by investing in established programs that are proven to be effective and removing any residual barriers to housing for veterans. “Veteran homelessness is a heartbreaking issue,” said Senator Burr. “We are making progress in combating veterans’ homelessness, and over the last 2 years, we have seen the number of homeless veterans decrease to around 40,000, but that is still far too many, and I will continue to address this problem until the number is zero. In particular, many women have been unable to fully participate in existing programs because their children were not allowed to live in the transitional housing. The Homeless Veterans Prevention Act bill addresses this shortcoming and increases the availability of housing for homeless veterans.” “As we continue to work toward ending veteran homelessness, we can and must do more to ensure veterans have access to the services they have earned with their service to our country,” Senator Mazie K. Hirono said. “By expanding existing VA partnerships that provide Hawaii veterans with legal assistance, housing, and health care, the Homeless Veterans Prevention Act will not only help prevent veterans from becoming homeless, but also assisting them in moving out of homelessness.” “It’s our responsibility to ensure that veterans facing homelessness have the resources they need to get back on their feet,” said Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “This bipartisan bill makes sure that these veterans have access to health care, legal services and a safe and warm place to call home.” Key Points for the Homeless Veterans Prevention Act of 2017: Keeps veteran families together by allowing the VA to house the children of homeless veterans in transitional housing programs. Requires the VA to enter into partnerships with public and private entities to provide legal services for homeless veterans and veterans at risk of becoming homeless. Provides VA with the authority to provide dental care to homeless veterans. Extends and increases the amount of money available for supportive services to very low-income veteran families in permanent housing.
05.05.2017	05.05.17 Chairman Burr and Vice Chairman Warner Statement on Carter Page’s Participation in SSCI Investigation WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on Carter Page’s participation in the investigation into the Russian activities surrounding the 2016 election: “Three days ago, Carter Page told Fox News he was cooperating with the Committee’s investigation into Russian activities surrounding the 2016 Election. Today we have learned that may not be the case. “The Committee’s April 28, 2017, letter asks Mr. Page to provide requested materials to the Committee by certain dates. Should Mr. Page choose to not provide the material requested by those dates, the Committee will consider its next steps at that time. “Mr. Page has indicated in correspondence to the Committee that he looks forward to working with us on this matter, and that our cooperation will help resolve what he claims are false allegations. For that to happen, Mr. Page must supply the requested documents to the Committee. As our letter indicated, the requested documents must be provided in advance of any interviews the Committee may conduct. “The Committee will continue to pursue its inquiry into issues surrounding Russia’s involvement in the 2016 Presidential election; it is our expectation that Mr. Page will live up to his publicly-expressed cooperation with our effort.”
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Senate Passes Intel Authorization in Omnibus Bill WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate approved the Intelligence Authorization Act (IAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 as part of the omnibus spending bill. The IAA represents a bipartisan effort by the Senate and House Intelligence Committees to authorize the activities of the United States Intelligence Community and to ensure continued robust Congressional oversight of critical programs. “The passage of the Intelligence Authorization Act is necessary for Congress to maintain vigorous oversight of the Intelligence Community’s activities and I am pleased that the FY17 IAA will be presented to the President for his signature,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “I now look forward to continuing our ongoing efforts to provide the intelligence agencies the tools and resources they need to keep us safe at home and abroad.” "This represents the eighth consecutive year of enactment of an Intelligence Authorization Act to provide the Intelligence Community with the resources and authorities it needs to defend our Nation, as well as to provide robust bipartisan oversight by the legislative branch,” said Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “The bill continues to push the Intelligence Community to capitalize on the revolution in space capabilities to ensure our satellite collection capabilities are resilient, innovative, and take full advantage of the nation’s expanding commercial space sector. I’d also like to thank Sen. Dianne Feinstein for her critical role in developing this bill, which began in the 114th Congress when she was Vice Chairman." Intelligence Authorization Act for FY17 Some of the key provisions accomplish the following: Requires the President to establish an interagency committee to counter Russian active measures. Promotes the hiring, further education, and retention of employees with science, technology, engineering, or math expertise. Encourages a greater focus on, and utilization of, Research and Development within the Intelligence Community.
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Burr and Pittenger Reintroduce Lumbee Recognition Bill WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Lumbee Recognition Act, a bill that would grant the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina federal recognition. Representative Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “I’m proud to reintroduce this legislation so that the 55,000 members of the Lumbee community in North Carolina receive the same rights and benefits as members of other federally recognized tribes,” said Senator Burr. “The Lumbee tribe has been seeking recognition for more than a century. This is long overdue. I want to thank Representative Pittenger for working with me to advance this important cause.” “The Lumbee Tribe deserves the same recognition and benefits as other federally recognized tribes,” said Representative Pittenger. “Yet just last year, following the devastation of Hurricane Matthew, the Lumbee Tribe was forced to pursue disaster relief in a different manner than other federally-recognized tribes would have. They aren’t treated as equals. Thank you to Senator Burr for working with me, on behalf of the Lumbees, to correct this century-old wrong.” North Carolina formally recognized the Lumbee Tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe, but it included a terribly unfair caveat - the Lumbees were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. WATCH: Lumbee Chairman Harvey Godwin Jr. testifies before the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs The Lumbee have been part of eastern North Carolina’s history for centuries, and they have served their community effectively, and tirelessly. The Lumbee Recognition Act will provide the Lumbees with the equal recognition they deserve.
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Burr Statement on Senate Health Committee Vote to Advance FDA Nominee Gottlieb WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee voted 14-9 to advance the nomination of Dr. Scott Gottlieb to head the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). HELP Committee member Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Dr. Gottlieb has the experience and knowledge necessary to guide the Food and Drug Administration toward achieving its public health mission. I was pleased to vote at Committee today, and look forward to a full Senate vote for Dr. Gottlieb to lead the FDA during such an exciting time for innovation in our country.”
04.26.2017	04.26.17 Senate Health Committee Advances Bipartisan Mosquito Control Bill to Combat Zika WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee unanimously advanced the Strengthening Mosquito Abatement for Safety and Health (SMASH) Act sponsored by Senators Angus King (I-ME), Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Nelson (D-FL), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). The SMASH Act would reauthorize funding for public health tools that support communities in their mosquito surveillance and control efforts, especially those linked to the mosquitos that carry the Zika virus. “I am pleased the HELP Committee has advanced this legislation, especially with warmer weather on the way, and the mosquitos that come with it,” said HELP Committee member Senator Burr. “The SMASH Act will give communities the support they need to fight the mosquitos that spread the Zika virus. This bill will help fund programs that are critical for identifying, controlling, and reducing mosquitos that spread infectious diseases.” Background: The SMASH Act (S. 849) would reauthorize mosquito-control programs that fight the mosquitos that transmit the Zika virus. Zika is a mosquito-borne infectious disease that is primarily transmitted to humans by the female yellow fever (A. aegypti) and Asian tiger (A. albopictus) mosquitos. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have linked the Zika virus to serious health conditions—including birth defects in infants (such as microcephaly) as well as neurological disorders. This bipartisan bill focuses on strengthening mosquito control because these programs play a critical role in protecting Americans from the threat of Zika and other mosquito-borne diseases. By reauthorizing and strengthening these programs, we will improve our nation’s preparedness for Zika and other vector-borne threats. The SMASH Act has three key elements: 1. Strengthen our ability to respond to Zika by reauthorizing and improving mosquito control Reauthorizes and makes targeted improvements to the lapsed Mosquito Abatement Safety and Health (MASH) Act, which was enacted in response to the West Nile virus. 2. Underscore the importance of public health preparedness through laboratory capacity Reauthorizes the epidemiology-laboratory capacity grants under the Public Health Service Act, which support state and local health departments in surveillance for, and response to, infectious diseases, including Zika. Laboratory capacity plays a pivotal role in preparation for and response to public health threats, including serious ones like Zika. 3. Inform how we can refine and improve mosquito control Requires timely study, report, and recommendations by the Government Accountability Office regarding existing mosquito and other vector-borne surveillance and control programs. This analysis will help Congress to identify opportunities to strengthen our public health preparedness programs in partnerships with states and local communities. Ultimately, such analysis will better protect Americans from emerging mosquito-borne infectious diseases. Applying the lessons learned from responses to public health threats is critical for continuing to optimize our nation’s medical and public health preparedness and response. To read the complete text of the bill, click HERE.
04.24.2017	04.24.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue WASHINGTON -- Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue to serve as Secretary of Agriculture. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I’m pleased the Senate confirmed Sonny Perdue to lead the Department of Agriculture. Agriculture is a vital part of North Carolina’s economy, and I know Secretary Perdue will work to promote policies that help our farmers and rural communities thrive.”
04.20.2017	04.20.17 Nomination Hearing for CIA General Counsel WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced the confirmation hearing for Central Intelligence Agency General Counsel nominee Courtney Simmons Elwood will occur in open session next Wednesday, April 26th 2017. Details Hearing: Confirmation Hearing for Courtney Simmons Elwood, Nominee for Director of Central Intelligence Agency General Counsel Witness: Courtney Simmons Elwood When: Wednesday April 26th 2017 at 10 am Eastern Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Burr Statement on Confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate voted 54-45 to confirm Justice Neil Gorsuch to the Unites States Supreme Court.Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Neil Gorsuch is a trusted mainstream jurist who is ready to shoulder the incredible responsibility of serving on the Supreme Court. Justice Gorsuch will serve the American people well as a defender of the Constitution. I congratulate Justice Gorsuch on his confirmation, and I thank him for answering the call to serve this great nation.”
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Bipartisan Group of Senators Look to Gain Permanent Reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and others today introduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which would fully realize LWCF’s promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation. Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), Cory Gardner (R-CO), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) also cosponsored the legislation. “The LWCF has a proven track record of making good on the promise of conserving our parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitats for the benefit of future generations of Americans,” said Senator Burr. “My colleagues and I offer this bill to permanently extend the LWCF, a program that preserves our natural heritage but does so without asking American taxpayers to shoulder the burden. I look forward to my colleagues coming together to pass this bipartisan legislation.” “Access to Colorado’s open spaces is critical to our thriving outdoor recreation economy,” Senator Bennet said. “The LWCF has supported hundreds of projects across Colorado, from protecting the Ophir Valley to expanding and improving the Animas River Trail to providing Denver kids with outdoor educational opportunities in their own neighborhoods. We should pass this bill to reauthorize the program permanently, and at the same time, Congress should move to ensure the LWCF receives full and dedicated funding going forward." “The LWCF is our most important and successful conservation and recreation program. I have long supported this landmark program that has created opportunities for Americans to enjoy the outdoors in every state,” said Senator Collins. “By permanently extending the LWCF, our legislation will help create a more stable, long-term plan that allows landowners, states, local communities, and conservation partners to reasonably plan for the future.” “LWCF is a critical tool that helps expand access to our public lands and preserves our Montana way of life,” said Senator Daines. “By permanently reauthorizing LWCF we can remove uncertainty and protect access to public lands for future generations." “LWCF is essential to protect Colorado’s natural treasures and I have long supported a permanent reauthorization of this program,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation is supported by countless Coloradans and Americans who want to protect our country’s public lands for future generations to enjoy. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to see permanent reauthorization of LWCF signed into law.” "The Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped protect some of our most treasured public lands and wildlife refuges in New Mexico like the Valles Caldera and Ute Mountain,” Senator Heinrich said. “LWCF also expands opportunities for outdoor traditions like hunting, camping, and fishing that are among the pillars of Western culture, and a thriving outdoor recreation economy. Permanently and fully funding LWCF will help ensure that our outdoor heritage and public lands will be protected for future generations to enjoy." Read the legislation here.
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Syria Military Strikes WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the military strikes against Syria: “The United States has always been a global leader in fighting genocide. This week, Bashar al-Assad once again committed genocide against the Syrian people with one of the most horrific weapons known to man. I am encouraged that the President decided to take action. The United States is once again asserting its leadership responsibility in eliminating genocide.”
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Announcement by House Intel Chairman Nunes WASHINGTON -- Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in response to House Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes’ decision to temporarily step away from his Committee’s Russia investigation: “Chairman Nunes has made the move he felt necessary to protect the viability of his Committee and its investigation going forward.”
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Senators Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Expand ABLE Accounts WASHINGTON -- Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bob Casey (D-PA), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced a package of bills aimed at enhancing the ABLE Act. The ABLE to Work Act builds on the success of the ABLE Act by making it possible for disabled people who work to save a portion of their income in an ABLE account without risking loss of benefits. These bills will also allow rollovers from 529 college savings plans as well as raise the age for eligibility from 26 to 46. Representatives Cathy McMorris Rogers (R-WA), Pete Sessions (R-TX), and Tony Cardenas (D-CA), introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. In 2014, the bipartisan group of lawmakers led the effort to pass the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which lets families who have a child with a disability save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts. The ABLE Act was a significant step forward and has been heralded as one of the most important pieces of disability legislation since the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). “Many individuals with disabilities are willing and able to work, but our current one-size-fits all system punishes those who do by making them ineligible for benefits,” said Senator Burr. “Having a job is an essential element of the American dream. The ABLE to Work Act gives disabled Americans and their families’ better options to plan for the future. Work is about more than financial support; it’s about participating in society and building a sense of purpose. It is wrong to exclude the most vulnerable members of our community from the benefits of having a job. I am also proud to join with my colleagues to introduce legislation to improve the ABLE Act by allowing rollovers from 529 college savings plans as well as allowing individuals who become disabled after turning 26 to open and save in an ABLE account.” “These pieces of legislation will strengthen the ABLE law and increase its benefits,” Senator Casey said. “The ABLE Act was a bipartisan accomplishment on behalf of those with disabilities and we must continue to do more.” "This legislation will build on the foundation of the ABLE Act to expand access and provide even greater flexibility for families who want to save money to support their disabled loved ones," said Senator Van Hollen. "I'm proud to work with advocates from the disabilities community to take the next step on this journey. These improvements to the ABLE Act will strengthen the ability of thousands of Maryland residents to live independent and meaningful lives." Since the passage of the ABLE Act in 2014, 48 states and Washington, DC have passed ABLE programs. Families interested in ABLE act programs are eligible to enroll across state lines. The ABLE to Work Act expands on the goals of the ABLE Act by encouraging work and self-sufficiency. The legislation allows individuals and their families to save more money in an ABLE account if the beneficiary works and earns income. Specifically, an ABLE beneficiary who earns income from a job could save up to the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently at $11,770. The bill will also allow ABLE beneficiaries to qualify for the existing Saver's Credit when they put savings in. Text of the ABLE to Work Act is available here. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would allow families to rollover savings in a 529 college savings plan into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before their child is even born, only to learn later that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child is in a tragic accident and becomes severely disabled. In such instances, these families have funds trapped in a 529 that they could use to help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If they withdraw the funds for anything other than college expenses, they face taxes on their withdrawals. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would help these families by allowing them to rollover the funds in their 529 account into an ABLE account for their disabled child. Text of the ABLE Financial Planning Act is available here. The ABLE Age Adjustment Act will raise the age limit for ABLE accounts to age 46. Currently, individuals with a severe disability prior to the age of 26 are eligible to open an ABLE account. Many debilitating diseases and conditions can strike later in life, including multiple sclerosis, Lou Gehrig’s disease, or paralysis due to an accident. Increasing the age limit for ABLE accounts will allow more individuals to save in these accounts to help cover the costs of short, medium and long-term care. Text of the ABLE Age Adjustment Act available here.
03.30.2017	03.30.17 Senate Passes Bill to Improve Charlotte Weather Radar WASHINGTON – Last night, the Senate passed the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 which includes a provision instructing the National Weather Service (NWS) to identify solutions for improving inadequate weather radar covering the Charlotte area and other parts of the country. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the legislation earlier this month. Representative Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. Last December, the Senate passed a similar bill unanimously. “This is a step in the right direction,” said Senator Burr. “When it comes to dangerous tornadoes, accurate weather forecasting is critical to ensuring the safety of citizens. I’m glad my colleagues recognize the importance of providing the tools that cities like Charlotte need to prepare for potential disasters.” “I want to thank my Senate colleagues for passing this legislation that is important to the safety of citizens in the Charlotte metropolitan region and across the country who live without quality radar coverage,” said Senator Tillis. “We must give all Americans more accurate warning when severe weather is approaching, and I hope this legislation will pass the House and head to the President’s desk to become law in a timely manner.” Charlotte is currently covered by a NWS Doppler radar that is 94 miles away in Greer, SC. However, no other city of Charlotte’s size currently has a radar situated more than 58 miles away. The current location results in a majority of the metropolitan area being without radar beam coverage below 10,000 feet. Due to the circumference of the earth the further a radar is away from a given point, the higher the radar beam scans the atmosphere, leading to lower resolutions and an inability to detect the low-level dynamics of severe weather. Rowan, Cabarrus, and Davidson Counties have an even more pronounced problem with limited radar coverage because of the location of the radar. This map from Brad Panovich, Chief Meteorologist WCNC-TV, clearly shows the gap in quality radar coverage over Charlotte: Local meteorologists believe that the lack of quality radar coverage has made it difficult for the NWS office in Spartanburg to detect severe weather, specifically tornadoes. These meteorologists who understand the intricacies of weather in the Piedmont believe that the lack of a NWS Doppler radar in Charlotte contributed to the lack of a warning for a tornado that affected Mecklenburg, Rowan, and Cabarrus Counties in March of 2012 that damaged 192 homes. The failure was not the fault of the NWS, as it can be very difficult to detect rotation in the thunderstorms that tend to effect North Carolina; however, the lack of a Doppler radar for the Piedmont enhances the problem. This legislation will give the NWS, local and state officials, and news outlets the tools they need to protect our citizens. Letters from three area meteorologists are available here: WGHP, WCNC and WBTV
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Senate Passes Resolution Honoring Vietnam Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) designating March 29, 2017 as Vietnam Veterans Day. “When called upon, our Vietnam veterans served this nation with honor and distinction, but many did not get the recognition they deserve,” said Senator Burr. “Vietnam Veterans Day is an opportunity to show our gratitude as a nation. I encourage everyone to take a moment to reflect upon their service and sacrifice.” “West Virginia has more names on the Vietnam Wall per capita than any other state in the nation, and I am honored to serve as an original sponsor on this resolution that pays homage to the service of this generation of Veterans,” Senator Manchin said. “In West Virginia, we also have one of the highest rates of military service, and nearly 40 percent of our veterans served in Vietnam. This generation served with honor and dignity at a time when their country didn’t treat them with respect. Now, our responsibility lies with making sure they are taking care of them, and that includes acknowledging their sacrifice and memory. I’m proud to join my colleague in designating March 29, 2017 as Vietnam Veterans Day and to urge everyone to remember their sacrifice. I also applaud the WV Chapter of the Vietnam Veterans of America, a group of dedicated Veterans who are always there to help a fellow West Virginian in need. Their motto is ‘Never again will one generation of veterans abandon another,’ and they live that creed in their everyday actions and deeds.” The text of the resolution is available online here.
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Sens Burr, Nelson, Rubio and Tillis Fight for Health Care for Camp Lejeune Toxic Exposure Victims WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced The Janey Ensminger Act of 2017, which requires the Veterans Administration (VA) to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune. The legislation also requires that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, review all relevant scientific literature every three years to determine if sufficient or modest causal links have been found between toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune and additional diseases and conditions. This will ensure that veterans and their families will not have to wait to get medical care as researchers learn more about the long-term health consequences of the toxins found in the water at Camp Lejeune. The legislation is named for Janey Ensminger, the daughter of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, who was born on base at Camp Lejeune and died as a result of exposure to toxic chemicals. “The Veterans Administration continues to deny clear scientific links between debilitating diseases and exposure to certain toxic chemicals in the drinking water at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Burr. “The Janey Ensminger Act requires the VA to do the right thing and give veterans the medical care they need. The military negligently poisoned these service members and they shouldn’t have to fight the VA every time that government researchers find a link between a disease and the toxins that were in their drinking water.” “We have a responsibility to care for those who have served our country and their families,” Senator Nelson said. “The VA should be giving any veteran who was stationed at Camp Lejeune and now battling one of these scientifically-linked illnesses the benefit of the doubt.” “Veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune deserve prompt medical care,” said Senator Rubio. “For far too long, those stationed at Camp Lejeune and suffering from various cancers and diseases have been uncertain about their coverage. This is completely unacceptable. I am proud to stand on the side of veterans and support legislation that ensures those affected at Camp Lejeune get the care they need.” “While progress has been made to ensure that veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune receive the benefits they have long deserved, some victims are still not receiving the care to which they are entitled because the VA has refused to accept the most up to date scientific data and research available,” said Sen. Tillis. “The Janey Ensminger Act of 2017 prioritizes science over politics and trusts the federal government’s scientific experts outside of the VA with decisions about medical coverage to ensure that every veteran who might have been affected at Camp Lejeune gets they care they need and deserve.” “The VA is neither staffed nor equipped to evaluate veterans for toxic exposures or to make legitimate decisions concerning their benefits,” said Jerry Ensminger. “If we are to believe that our elected leaders are truly sincere about fiscal responsibility and cutting wasteful spending, they will support and vote yes on this bill. “We have government agencies which were created and mandated by Congress to evaluate exposures to toxic substances and the health effects they cause. The American taxpayers pay to staff and maintain those agencies through their federal taxes. For one reason or another, the VA and other departments of our federal government choose not to utilize those agencies. They prefer to contract non-governmental entities to acquire their evaluations regarding toxic exposures, which means the taxpayers are paying double. This bill will stop some of that wasteful spending.” Master Sergeant Ensminger has been a tireless advocate for members of the military and their families that were harmed by toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune. In September 2015, Ensminger testified before the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. WATCH: Ensminger: Janey is but one example of the multitude of tragedies suffered by former Camp Lejeune families who were exposed by this negligence. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This law, authored by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. However, the VA has resisted providing health care benefits to many of these veterans and their family members because it has not recognized the scientific links between the exposure to toxins and certain diseases that have been found by government researchers at the ATSDR. Earlier this month, the Department of Veteran’s Affairs began granting compensation to veterans suffering from illnesses caused by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987 and are suffering from a service connected illness are now eligible to receive disability compensation. Text of the Janey Ensminger Act of 2017 is available here. A one pager on the legislation is available here.
03.27.2017	03.27.17 Chairman Burr and Vice Chairman Warner Statement on Kushner’s Voluntary Participation in SSCI Investigation WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that Senior Advisor to the President Jared Kushner has voluntarily agreed to be interviewed as part of the Committee’s investigation into the Russian activities surrounding the 2016 election. Sens. Burr and Warner made the following statement on the announcement: "From the beginning of this investigation we have committed to follow the facts wherever they lead us. This announcement serves to demonstrate that commitment. Mr. Kushner will certainly not be the last person the committee calls to give testimony, but we expect him to be able to provide answers to key questions that have arisen in our inquiry. The timing of Mr. Kushner’s testimony is still being determined, but will only come after the committee determines that it has received any documents or information necessary to ensure that the meeting is productive for all sides."
03.22.2017	03.22.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Attack in London WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the tragedy in London, England that has left three dead: “My thoughts and prayers go out to all those affected by the senseless acts of violence in London. I will continue to track the events closely and to ensure that our Intelligence Community is providing all requested support to our friends in the United Kingdom. Together we must continue to face down terrorism and track down those who inspire these brutal attacks.”
03.17.2017	03.17.17 Senate Intel Committee Announces Open Hearing on Russian Intelligence Activities WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced an open hearing related to the Committee’s inquiry into Russian intelligence activities will take place on March 30, 2017. The hearing, Disinformation: A Primer in Russian Active Measures and Influence Campaigns, will consist of two panels and will provide a foundational understanding of Russian active measures and information operations campaigns. The first panel will examine the history and characteristics of those campaigns; the second panel will examine the role and capabilities of cyber operations in support of these activities. Details Hearing: Disinformation: A Primer in Russian Active Measures and Influence Campaigns Witnesses: Panel I Eugene Rumer, Director of Russia and Eurasia Program, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He previously served as the National Intelligence Officer for Russia and Eurasia from 2010-2014. Roy Godson, Professor of Government Emeritus at Georgetown University. From 1993-2015, he also served as President of the National Strategy Information Center. Clint Watts, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy Research Institute Program on National Security *Other witnesses may be added Panel II: Kevin Mandia, Chief Executive Officer, FireEye General (Ret.) Keith Alexander, Chief Executive Officer and President, IronNet Cybersecurity. He previously served as Director of the National Security Agency and Chief of the Central Security Service. *Other witnesses may be added When: Thursday, March 30th 2017 at 10:00 am (Panel I) Thursday, March 30th 2017 at 2:00 pm (Panel II) Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106 The Committee has previously conducted an open hearing in January on Russian active measures in the 2016 election.
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Joint Statement from Senate Intel Committee Leaders on Wiretapping Evidence at Trump Tower WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) made the following joint statement regarding evidence that Trump Tower was wiretapped during the 2016 election: “Based on the information available to us, we see no indications that Trump Tower was the subject of surveillance by any element of the United States government either before or after Election Day 2016.”
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Senate Confirmation of Dan Coats to be Director of National Intelligence WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement after the Senate confirmed former Senator Dan Coats to be the Director of National Intelligence on a bipartisan vote of 85-12: “Today, the Senate voted to confirm our colleague Dan Coats to become the Director of National Intelligence. Dan has the experience and judgment necessary to effectively lead the Intelligence Community. He understands well the unique nature of intelligence work and will ensure the IC has the legal tools and authorities needed to help keep our country safe.” Senator Burr spoke on the Senate floor today in support of Coats.
03.14.2017	03.14.17 Dept. Of Veterans Affairs Begins Providing Compensation to Lejeune Veterans Affected by Tainted Water WASHINGTON – Today, a Department of Veteran’s Affairs rule granting compensation to veterans suffering from illnesses caused by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune went into effect. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987 and are suffering from a service connected illness are now eligible to receive disability compensation. “It has been a long fight for these veterans to get the compensation they deserve,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). “I want to thank Jerry Ensminger for his work on behalf of the Lejeune veterans and their families. These men and women sacrificed for our nation and have earned this care and support. I encourage all veterans who may be eligible for compensation to contact my office for assistance making a claim.” “I am thankful the day has finally come that veterans affected by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune begin receiving compensation,” said Senator Tillis (R-NC). “This overdue justice is a result of persistence and hard-work by a number of people, and I would like to specifically thank Senator Burr and Jerry Ensminger for tirelessly advocating on behalf of the victims. As always, any veteran who has a problem receiving their compensation from the VA should contact my office.” The rule will provide compensation for veterans that served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days (consecutive or nonconsecutive) or more from 1953 to 1987. Service members suffering from the following eight diseases automatically qualify for compensation: Kidney cancer Liver cancer Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Adult leukemia Multiple myeloma Parkinson’s disease Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes Bladder cancer The VA estimates that more than 900,000 service members could have been exposed to toxic water. Senator Burr has worked tirelessly to secure the medical care and compensation for veterans affected by toxic water at Camp Lejeune. In 2015, the VA granted disability status to victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water. The federal rule is available online here.
03.13.2017	03.13.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of CMS Administrator Seema Verma WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Seema Verma to lead the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “As a member of the Finance Committee, I have been proud to support Seema Verma’s nomination to be CMS Administrator throughout the confirmation process in the Senate. Ms. Verma’s knowledge and leadership abilities will serve the American people well at CMS, an agency that touches the lives of millions every day. She will play an important role as we work to repeal and replace Obamacare, and put in place health care reforms that work for the American people.”
03.09.2017	03.09.17 Statement from Sens. Burr and Warner on Committee Vote of former Sen. Coats to Head DNI WASHINGTON – The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence today voted 13-2 to advance to the full Senate the nomination of former Senator Dan Coats to become the Director of National Intelligence. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) both made statements after the conclusion of the vote. “I’m pleased the Committee was able to report out our former colleague Dan Coats and I look forward to supporting his nomination on the Senate floor,” said Chairman Burr. “I am confident Dan will be an excellent Director of National Intelligence and know that he will draw on his deep knowledge of intelligence issues to help the Intelligence Community address the wide range of challenges to our national security.” “I’ve known Senator Coats a long time, and as a former Committee colleague he has respect and appreciation for the oversight system,” said Vice Chairman Warner. “I’m pleased that his nomination to lead our nation’s intelligence agencies was overwhelmingly voted out of Committee today. If confirmed as Director of National Intelligence, Sen. Coats has provided strong assurances of cooperation with this Committee as we conduct a bipartisan investigation into Russian activities in the 2016 election.”
03.08.2017	03.08.17 Sens. Burr, Cantwell & Tillis Reintroduce Bill to Identify Solutions for Inadequate Weather Radar, Rep. Pittenger Introduces House Companion WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) reintroduced legislation to identify solutions for areas across the country that lack sufficient severe weather detection. Representative Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. This legislation would direct the National Weather Service (NWS) to study areas of the country, including the Charlotte metropolitan area, with inadequate weather radar and develop a plan to improve radar coverage. Last December, the Senate passed the similar legislation unanimously. “We have made a lot of progress on this issue, but the weather radar covering the Charlotte area is still dangerously deficient.” said Senator Burr. “I’m hopeful we can pass this legislation again in the Senate and I look forward to working with Representative Pittenger to get it passed in the House.” “We know big storms and wildfires can have a serious impact on our lives and communities,” said Senator Cantwell. “Unlike Western Washington, there is a large Doppler radar gap just east of the Cascades. Okanogan, Chelan, Douglas, Grant, Kittitas and Yakima Counties have areas lacking critical Doppler radar coverage. Better weather forecasting means first responders can better protect human life and property. This bill is the first step toward filling the gaps in weather radar that leave areas, like central Washington, with blind spots.” “This legislation to study areas of the country with inadequate severe weather detection, including the Charlotte metropolitan region, is important to the safety of citizens across the country who live without quality radar coverage,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senator Burr and Representative Pittenger for their tireless work to solve this problem that directly affects thousands of North Carolinians, and I urge the House and Senate to swiftly pass this bill so we can give all Americans more accurate warning when severe weather is approaching.” “The National Weather Service has repeatedly missed signs of developing tornadoes, or issued inaccurate warnings, due to the lack of adequate radar coverage in Charlotte,” said Representative Pittenger. “Fortunately, we have not yet suffered fatalities, but we shouldn’t wait for tragedy to act. Far too many lives are at risk for a problem the federal government can easily address, as Charlotte is the largest metropolitan region in the country without local Doppler radar.
03.07.2017	03.07.17 Senators Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Permanently Authorize, Fully Fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund Washington, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and 20 other senators introduced bipartisan legislation to permanently authorize and fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which conserves and promotes access to America’s national parks, forests and public lands. After expiring for the first time in 50 years, Congress voted in December 2015 to extend the program’s authorization for only three years. “In Washington state, we are hikers, bikers, anglers, climbers, skiers and so much more. The LWCF lets us continue to explore our beautiful state by setting aside some of its most precious lands, while helping keep our economy humming and providing 227,000 Washingtonians with good jobs. For decades, the LWCF has brought together public and private resources to open access to trails, create wildlife corridors, and preserve our clean air and water. We wouldn’t have some of the best outdoor recreation opportunities, like Olympic National Park and Riverside State Park, without the LWCF,” Sen. Cantwell said. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund protects our natural treasures. I’m proud to work with Sen. Cantwell to make sure this program continues so that future generations can enjoy North Carolina’s most beautiful places and that the program has the resources it needs to continue conservation initiatives across the country,” Sen. Burr said. Outdoor recreation drives economic growth, creates jobs and produces significant revenues for local communities. The Land and Water Conservation Fund is the key federal investment in a sector that has supported more than 6 million American jobs and contributes $600 billion annually to our nation’s economy. The LWCF, established in 1965, funds the purchase and development of parks, wildlife refuges and recreation resources of federal, state, and local lands and facilities. The program provides funding for additions to national parks, national wildlife refuges, national forests and other federal public lands used for outdoor recreation and habitat preservation. The LWCF also funds important projects that protect drinking water resources, sensitive habitat for fish and wildlife, and private forestland. The state component of the program provides matching grants to states and localities for investments in outdoor recreation facilities, such as parks and playfields. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund has proven to be a spectacular investment for the places that make this country special, for the people who benefit from access to those places for hunting, fishing and camping, and for the local communities that host these truly remarkable resources,” Sen. Wyden (D-Ore.) said. “Fully funding this program will allow communities across the country to continue protecting our nation’s public lands and providing access for the outdoor activities Americans enjoy.” “In Minnesota, generations of families have enjoyed our state's land, waterways and natural resources for hunting, fishing and many other recreational activities,” said Sen. Franken (D-Minn.). "For over 50 years, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped states across our nation be stewards for millions of acres of land. It’s helped protect parks like Voyageurs National Park in Minnesota and areas that provide clean drinking water for Americans, valuable habitat for fish and wildlife, and outdoor activities for families. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this legislation passed.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a critical tool that expands public access for folks who hunt, hike and fish on our public lands—at no cost to taxpayers,” said Sen. Tester (D-Mont.) said. “There are still too many politicians who are trying to block our ability to increase public access, despite our growing outdoor economy. That’s why it is time to fully fund and permanently reauthorize this successful initiative.” Original co-sponsors of the bill include Sens. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Robert Casey (D-Pa.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Joe Manchin (D-W.V.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). Download text of the bill here.
03.07.2017	03.07.17 Burr Statement on House GOP’s American Healthcare Act WASHINGTON – Today, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the American Healthcare Act introduced last night by House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and House Energy and Commerce Committee Greg Walden: “The House plan is a good first step toward providing relief from the broken promises, costly mandates, and government bureaucracy created by Obamacare. I look forward to working with my colleagues to fulfill our promise to the American people to repeal and replace Obamacare with solutions that make health insurance more affordable and that give families more control over their own health care.”
03.05.2017	03.05.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Committee’s Ongoing Investigation into Russian Intelligence Activities WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the Committee’s ongoing investigation into Russian intelligence activities: “As I’ve said since the beginning and have repeated since, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence will follow the evidence where it leads, and we will continue to be guided by the intelligence and facts as we compile our findings.”
03.03.2017	03.03.17 Senators Burr and Tillis React to North Carolina VA Wait Time Report WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) reacted to a troubling report by the Veteran’s Affairs Inspector General that found multiple VA medical facilities in North Carolina are not keeping adequate or consistent records on veterans’ wait times and failing to provide veterans with timely care. “It is absolutely unacceptable that the scheduling system does not provide accurate information about wait times,” said Senator Burr. “A significant percentage of veterans are still waiting more than 30 days for necessary health care appointments. Furthermore, the VA has failed to identify and assist 90 percent of the veterans who, due to wait times, are eligible to use the Choice program to receive care outside of the VA system. This shameful incompetence caused some veterans to wait more than 80 days for an appointment. I expect Secretary Shulkin to use the power that Congress has given him to hold employees accountable and get the results that our veterans demand.” “Today’s report confirms that veterans continue to face unacceptable wait times to receive care at the VA, and it also reveals major issues plaguing the VA Choice Program that must be addressed,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue working with my colleagues on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee to implement reforms that improve the timely delivery of community care for veterans and pursue legislation that will require VA to fully implement a consistent and transparent way of tracking wait times at VA facilities. Until all VA facilities track wait times in a uniform manner, Congress is limited in its ability to conduct meaningful oversight.” Troubling findings from the report include: An estimated 36 percent of the appointments for new patients had wait times longer than 30 days, with an average wait time of 59 days. These numbers are significantly higher than the wait time data the electronic scheduling system showed. Medical facilities failed to consistently enter correct clinically indicated or supported preferred appointment dates when scheduling appointments. Staff did not identify an estimated 13,800 of these 15,300 appointments or 90 percent of the veterans who should have been eligible for the Choice program. Medical facility staff did not ensure that veterans authorized to participate in the Choice program received care within 30 days as required by VA contracts. An estimated 82 percent of the appointments for veterans who receive care through Choice during the relevant time period had wait times longer than 30 days. The full report is available online here.
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Energy Secretary Perry WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm former Texas Governor Rick Perry to head the United States Department of Energy. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “As Energy Secretary, Rick Perry will be responsible for maintaining the security and reliability of our nation’s energy resources. I’m glad he has chosen to serve our nation and I look forward to working with him.”
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Burr Statement on DOJ Investigation on Russian Active Measures WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions and any Department of Justice investigation into Russia’s efforts to influence the 2016 Election: “The Attorney General has said he would recuse himself when needed and I trust him to make what he feels is the appropriate decision as to his involvement in any investigation into Russian active measures and the 2016 election.”
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of HUD Secretary Carson WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm Dr. Ben Carson to head the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I have no doubts about Dr. Carson’s commitment to serving this nation. Dr. Carson will look at housing policy with fresh eyes and move forward with programs that will help communities thrive so that all Americans can reach their full potential.”
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Interior Secretary Zinke WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm Representative Ryan Zinke (R-MT) to head the United States Department of Interior. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I’m proud to support Ryan Zinke. He is an excellent choice to lead the Department of Interior. Zinke is a champion of conservation, and I look forward to working with him to ensure that the Land and Water Conservation Fund program will continue to preserve North Carolina’s natural treasures for future generations.”
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Burr Statement on President Trump’s Joint Session of Congress: It’s Time to Work Together WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on President Trump’s first Joint Session of Congress: “In his first few days in office, President Trump was quick to begin honoring his promises to the American people. Going forward, the President tonight outlined a blue print to improve our economy and keep our country safe. Americans were clear about their priorities in this past election and it’s time to work together on issues that are critical to the American people. “For far too long, many have felt forgotten by our government. I am encouraged that Congress can work together with the President to pass legislation that will get our country back on track with a stronger economy for all Americans. It is clear that our citizens want to reel in government spending, create jobs, fix our healthcare system, and strengthen our borders. The President, in keeping his promises, has made significant gains in reinforcing these critical policy areas. “I look forward to working with the President to solve the real, everyday problems that face the American people, and I ask my Senate colleagues to work with him to achieve these goals.”
02.27.2017	02.27.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Commerce Secretary Ross WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm Wilbur Ross to head the United States Department of Commerce. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Wilbur Ross will put his business experience to good use as Secretary of Commerce. I’m glad he has decided to serve our nation and I look forward to working with him on policies that will create jobs for the American people.”
02.27.2017	02.27.17 Tillis Chief of Staff Ray Starling To Serve As Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture, Trade, and Food Assistance WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the White House announced that Ray Starling, Chief of Staff for Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), will be leaving the Senator’s office to serve as Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture, Trade, and Food Assistance. “We will greatly miss Ray’s tremendous leadership, his warm sense of humor, and his genuine passion for working on behalf of all North Carolinians, but the silver lining is that our state’s loss is America’s gain,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “There is simply no one better qualified than Ray to advise the President on agriculture and trade policy. Ray has been a lifelong champion for North Carolina’s agricultural industry, and he will now play a major role in fulfilling the administration’s plans to support our nation’s farmers and ranchers and revitalize rural America. This is an incredible honor for Ray that is more than well deserved, and it’s also a testament to how respected North Carolina's agricultural community is across the nation. I wish Ray and his family all the best in this new and exciting chapter, and I look forward to working closely with him to advocate for our state’s agricultural and rural communities.” “I’m glad we are going to have a North Carolinian working on agriculture policy in the White House,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Ray Starling has a deep understanding of the agriculture industry and I know he will work to promote policies that will help our nation’s economy thrive.” Today, Senator Tillis also announced that his State Director Jordan Shaw will serve as his interim Chief of Staff. Starling, who most recently served as Senator Tillis’ Chief of Staff, has also served as Senator Tillis’ Chief Counsel, and was then-Speaker Tillis’ General Counsel and Agriculture Advisor in the N.C. General Assembly. He has also been the General Counsel for the N.C. Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, has private practice experience from several years at Hunton & Williams, served as a law clerk on the N.C. Supreme Court, and has taught numerous agricultural and food law university courses. After growing up on a Century Family Farm in Autryville, North Carolina, Starling received a B.S. in Agricultural Education from N.C. State University and a J.D. from UNC-Chapel Hill.
02.22.2017	02.22.17 Senate Intel Committee Announces Nomination Hearing for Former Senator Dan Coats To Be Director of National Intelligence WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the nomination hearing for former Senator Dan Coats (R-IN) to become the Director of National Intelligence will take place on Tuesday, February 28th, 2017. Details Hearing: Confirmation Hearing for Senator Dan Coats (R-IN), Nominee for Director of National Intelligence Witness: Senator Dan Coats (R-IN), Nominee for Director of National Intelligence When: Tuesday February 28th, 2017 at 2:00 pm eastern. The hearing will begin in open session and may be followed by a closed session. Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Tillis, Burr Seek Release of North Carolina Pastor Unjustly Detained in Turkey WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Richard Burr (R-NC), and leaders of the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees sent a letter signed by 78 members of Congress to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan seeking the unconditional release of American pastor Andrew Brunson, who has been unjustly detained in Turkey since October and denied regular and appropriate access to legal counsel and American consular services. Pastor Andrew Brunson is a Presbyterian pastor from Black Mountain, North Carolina, and has dedicated 23 years to Christian missionary work in Turkey until he applied for residency and was arrested. Other members of Congress who signed the letter include: Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), John Boozman (R-AZ), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Bob Corker (R-TN), Shelly Moore Capito (R-WV), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), James M. Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Tim Kaine (D-VA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Joe Manchin III (D-WV), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Rand Paul (R-KY), David Perdue (R-GA), Rob Portman (R-OH), James E. Risch (R-ID), Marco Rubio (R-FL), John Thune (R-SD), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Roger F. Wicker (R-MS), and Todd Young (R-IN); and Representatives Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL), Brian Babin (R-TX), Gus M. Bilirakis (R-FL), Mike Bost (R-IL), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Ted Budd (R-NC), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Gerry E. Connolly (D-VA), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), Garret Graves (R-LA), Bill Flores (R-TX), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Thomas A. Garrett Jr. (R-VA), George Holding (R-NC), Richard Hudson (R-NC), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Walter B. Jones (R-NC), David P. Joyce (R-OH), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Tom Marino (R-PA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC), Mark Meadows (R-NC), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Ted Poe (R-TX), David E. Price (D-NC), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Peter J. Roskam (R-IL), Steve Russell (R-OK), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), David G. Valadao (R-CA), Tim Walberg (R-MI), Ted Yoho (R-FL), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY). Text of the letter is included below: February 16, 2017 Dear President Erdogan, We write to request that Mr. Andrew Brunson, an American citizen who has been unjustly detained in Turkey, be immediately released and deported. Mr. Brunson has worked peacefully in Turkey since 1993. There appears to be no evidence to substantiate the charges against him for membership in an armed terrorist organization. Moreover, your government has repeatedly denied regular and appropriate access to legal counsel and American consular services. Mr. Brunson's imprisonment has been raised repeatedly by U.S. Government officials with officials of the Government of Turkey. Unfortunately, high-level efforts to secure Mr. Brunson's release have been unsuccessful. We have closely followed developments with this case, and are deeply disappointed. The United States and Turkey have benefited from a close partnership for decades, and we hope to be in a position to continue strengthening these ties. Now is the time for our countries to reaffirm respect for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law while reasserting our shared commitment to addressing security challenges through partnerships and cooperation. In this spirit of partnership, we respectfully ask you to consider Mr. Brunson's case and how the recent treatment of Mr. Brunson places significant strain not only on him and his family, but also on the robust bilateral relationship between the United States and Turkey. We appeal to you to inquire as to the options for promptly deporting Mr. Brunson and to act on them expeditiously. Sincerely,
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Small Business Administrator Linda McMahon WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm Linda McMahon to lead the Small Business Administration. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Linda McMahon was born in North Carolina and worked for decades to grow a small business into a thriving entertainment enterprise; she exemplifies the American dream. Her real world experience will be incredibly valuable as she serves our nation by leading the Small Business Administration. The fact that Senate Democrats have allowed a swift vote on this qualified nominee is encouraging, I am hopeful we can continue this type of bipartisan cooperation on the rest of the President’s executive nominees.”
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on the Resignation of Michael Flynn, National Security Advisor WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement after the resignation of Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor: “Mike Flynn served his country with distinction. The President needs a National Security Advisor whom he can trust and I defer to him to decide who best fills that role.”
02.13.2017	02.13.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Veterans Affairs Secretary Shulkin WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm Dr. David Shulkin to head the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I look forward to working with Dr. Shulkin to ensure our veterans receive the world-class health care that they were promised and have earned. This includes making sure that the Veterans Choice Program is not only improved but is also made permanent so that our veterans never have to wait for health care. Additionally, I hope that Dr. Shulkin embraces the accountability authority that Congress has provided the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in order to ensure that all VA employees are working for our nation’s veterans.”
02.13.2017	02.13.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Treasury Secretary Mnuchin WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted to confirm Steven Mnuchin to head the United States Department of Treasury. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “As a member of the Finance committee, I had the opportunity to question Steve Mnuchin at his confirmation hearing and I am confident in his qualifications. I am also pleased that he has committed to cleaning up abuses at the IRS. Americans have been struggling under a stagnant economy for too long. The Treasury Secretary is an essential member of the President’s economic team and I look forward to working with him to get our economy back on track.” Read more about Senator Burr’s plan to clean up the IRS here.
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Tom Price to Serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services WASHINGTON –Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Representative Tom Price (GA-6) to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Now is a critical time for health care in this country and the American people want us to get it right. As a physician, Tom has a deep understanding of families’ health care needs and will be an especially valuable member of the President’s team as Congress works to repeal and replace Obamacare.”
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Jeff Sessions to Serve as Attorney General WASHINGTON –Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to serve as Attorney General. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Jeff has been a friend and a colleague for many years, and during the Judiciary Committee hearings the American people had the opportunity to hear from a variety of individuals about his commitment to the rule of law and record of pursuing justice. I am pleased that the Senate has confirmed him as Attorney General, and I look forward to continuing the confirmation process so that the President’s team can get to work on behalf of the American people.”
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Betsy DeVos to Serve as Secretary of Education WASHINGTON –Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Betsy DeVos to serve as Secretary of Education. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Betsy DeVos has dedicated her life to improving education, so I am glad she will continue to fight for all children as Secretary of Education. Attempts by Senate Democrats to stall the President’s nominees only distract from the very real struggles of North Carolina’s families seeking the best education for their children.”
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on CIA Director Pompeo’s Selection of Gina Haspel as Deputy Director of CIA WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today met with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Director Mike Pompeo to discuss Pompeo’s selection of Gina Haspel to be Deputy Director of the CIA. Chairman Burr made the following statement: “Director Pompeo and I discussed this morning his choice of Gina Haspel to be the next Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and I am pleased that he has selected a career Agency officer with years of service to our nation in a multitude of locations across the world. I have met her personally and believe that she has the right skill set, experience, and judgment to help the Director lead what I believe to be one of our Nation’s most critical Agencies.”
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Rex Tillerson to Serve as Secretary of State WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted 56-43 to confirm Rex Tillerson as the next Secretary of State. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I’m glad the Senate was able to come together and confirm Rex Tillerson to serve as Secretary of State. As our nation's top diplomat, the Secretary of State will be in charge of leading U.S. diplomatic efforts around the world. At this critical time, I am confident Rex Tillerson has the experience to rise to the challenge.”
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Burr Statement on Committee Vote of Rep. Tom Price to Lead Health and Human Services Dept. WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement after voting at the Senate Finance Committee in support of Rep. Tom Price to head the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS): “I know that Rep. Tom Price is well prepared to lead this important agency at this critical time for our nation’s health care system. I was pleased to vote at Committee today, and look forward to a full Senate vote for him to lead HHS. Senate Democrats should stop running side shows and honor the results of the 2016 election so that the President can move forward with putting his leadership in place at these federal agencies."
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Burr Statement on Committee Vote of Mnuchin to Head Treasury Dept. WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement after voting at the Senate Finance Committee in support of Steven Mnuchin to head the United States Department of the Treasury: “Even though the Democrats are throwing everything but the kitchen sink at President Trump’s nominees, Mnuchin proceeds today to a full Senate vote on his confirmation. Mnuchin’s credentials are self-evident proof that he is more than qualified to lead the Department of Treasury. It’s time for the Democrats to stop their shameless grandstanding and let’s get leaders for our government in place quickly, as has been the practice with every President to date.”
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Burr Statement on Nomination of Neil Gorsuch to Supreme Court WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement after President Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States: “I applaud President Trump’s selection of Judge Neil Gorsuch to serve on the Supreme Court. In 2006, the Senate confirmed him without opposition to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit. Gorsuch is a judge who will continue to operate in accordance with the rule of law and respect for the Constitution. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer has repeatedly expressed his desire to have nine Justices serving on the Supreme Court. Now that the American people have spoken, and the President has nominated a mainstream jurist, I am hopeful that the Senate will come together and swiftly confirm Judge Gorsuch.”
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Burr Statement on Committee Vote on DeVos to Head Education Department WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement after voting at the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee in support of Betsy DeVos to head the Department of Education: “Betsy DeVos is going to put our children first. Too much time has passed where children have received a poor education that simply does not stack up. I believe Mrs. DeVos is committed to helping our children succeed academically. I support her nomination and will work with her to ensure that every child in America receives a world-class education.” Watch Sen Burr’s remarks at Committee here:
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Elaine Chao to Serve as Secretary of Transportation WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate voted 93-6 to confirm Elaine Chao as the next Secretary of Transportation. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Elaine Chao is an experienced public servant and I am delighted that Congress will have the opportunity to work with her again as she leads the Department of Transportation. She has the drive and the determination to usher in a new era of infrastructure renewal.”
01.26.2017	01.26.17 Burr Celebrates Launch of NC Program to Help Children with Disabilities WASHINGTON – Today, the state of North Carolina launched its ABLE account program. The North Carolina program was authorized by Senator Burr's Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act. “This is an important day for the families of children with disabilities,” said Senator Burr. “ABLE accounts are a game changer for people living with disabilities. Now families will be able to save to give their children a better future. The ABLE program is an example of what is working in Washington, what we can accomplish when we work together on programs that improve people’s lives.” Amy Wright, the founder and CEO of Bitty & Beau’s coffee, a Wilmington business that provides employment opportunities to people with intellectual disabilities, celebrated the launch by setting up ABLE accounts for two of her children who have Down syndrome. "If you know us, our family, our business, then you know how much the NC ABLE Program means to us,” said Amy Wright. “This morning, we explained to Bitty and Beau that starting today they can save for the future just like their older sisters. Beau said he plans to buy a house one day. We love that he understands how important this is!" The ABLE Act created tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities. The law eases the financial strain faced by individuals with disabilities and their families by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, medical, and transportation. The ABLE Act supplements, but not supplants, benefits provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program, the beneficiary's employment, and other sources. North Carolina enacted legislation implementing the ABLE program in 2015. Families interested in creating an ABLE account should contact the North Carolina Treasurer’s office.
01.24.2017	01.24.17 SSCI Statement on Inquiry into Russian Intelligence Activities after Committee Meeting Today WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued a joint statement regarding the Committee’s inquiry into Russian intelligence activities after a closed meeting today: "The Committee today agreed to move forward, under terms of reference proposed by Chairman Burr and Vice Chairman Warner, with its inquiry into Russian efforts directed against the 2016 US elections and related efforts abroad. The Committee hopes to expeditiously conduct its review and report its findings."
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Burr Statement on the Senate Confirmation of United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the Senate confirmation of South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley to serve as Ambassador to the United Nations: “Nikki Haley will bring a fresh perspective to the United Nations. She has a record of success in South Carolina and is well prepared to engage with world leaders and craft solutions to the world’s most difficult humanitarian crises and political conflicts. Her pledge to support Israel, our closest ally in the region, will rebuild a critical relationship.”
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Burr Introduces Bill to Keep EPA from Devastating Amateur Motorsports WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today reintroduced the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports (RPM) Act, which would stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from cracking down on amateur race car mechanics and hobbyists. In 2015, for the first time ever, the Obama administration proposed a rule that would have enabled the EPA to fine amateur motorsports enthusiasts for converting their personal vehicles to racecars. This proposal ran counter to nearly a half century of clear congressional intent under the Clean Air Act. Thankfully, the rulemaking was removed; however, the EPA still views the practice of converting vehicles into racecars as unlawful. The RPM ACT will ensure that no administration will ever be able to overstep its regulatory powers in this area. “For decades, Congress has made it clear that the EPA does not have the authority to regulate racing vehicles,” said Senator Burr. “The Obama EPA attempted to tell the American people what they can do with their own cars, even though there is a deep tradition of hobbyists who have chosen to upgrade their vehicles when they are removed from public roads. This bipartisan legislation ensures that the intent of the Clean Air Act is upheld and that amateur motorsports is protected for future generations.” A companion bill, HR 350, was recently reintroduced in the House of Representatives. About the RPM Act: Since the first motor vehicle rolled across the assembly line, amateur mechanics and drivers have used hard work and ingenuity to transform their vehicles into racecars. These early pioneers established the framework for today’s thriving American motorsports industry, from the largest racetracks in Daytona Beach and Watkins Glen to the local tracks like Orange County Speedway in North Carolina and the Summit Point Motorsports Park in West Virginia. The National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR) was founded in 1948, and was initially based on the notion that racers purchase cars from the dealer’s stock and modify them to race. A rule proposed in 2015 by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), attempted to make it illegal to convert an automobile into a racecar if the engine, exhaust, or any other part of the emission system is altered from its stock configuration. Thankfully the purposed rulemaking was withdrawn, as it would have directly attacked the very idea NASCAR was built on, and for which millions of Americans still participate in as competitors and spectators every weekend. The Motor Vehicle Air Pollution Control Act of 1965 defined the term “motor vehicle” as “any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway.” Congress also included “anti-tampering” language in this law, making it illegal for “any person to remove or render inoperative any device or element of design installed on or in a motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine in compliance with regulations under this title prior to its sale and delivery to the ultimate purchaser.” In 1970, Congress expanded the Clean Air Act’s anti-tampering provision to provide that no person can render the emissions controls inoperative “after such sale and delivery to the ultimate purchaser.” However, Congress also clarified that the law does not apply to vehicles manufactured or modified for racing. When it passed the Clean Air Act Amendments passed in 1990, Congress unequivocally excluded vehicles used solely for competition from the definition of “non-road vehicle” (“The term ‘non-road vehicle’ means a vehicle that is powered by a non-road engine and that is not a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition”). It is instructive that Congress separated out “vehicles used solely for competition” from “motor vehicles,” as it indicates the term “motor vehicle” was never understood to include “vehicles used solely for competition.” After examining the legislative history it is clear that Congress never intended to provide the EPA with the authority to regulate vehicles used solely for competition, including vehicles modified to be used exclusively for racing. While the EPA withdrew the problematic language from the final rule making last year, the agency still maintains that vehicle modification for motorsport is unlawful. The Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act simply reaffirms what Congress’ position has always been in order to prevent another attack on amateur motorsports in the future. The bill has 14 co-sponsors in the Senate including Senators Boozman (R-AR), Crapo (R-ID), Donnelly (D-IN), Ernst (R-IA), Fischer (R- NE), Graham (R-SC), Heller (R-NV), Inhofe (R-OK), Manchin (D-WV), Moran (R-KS), Rounds (R-SD), Rubio (R-FL), Tester (D-MT), and Tillis (R-NC). Organizations Supporting this Bill: Automobile Competition Committee for the United States (ACCUS-FIA) American Motorcyclist Association (AMA) Auto Care Association (Auto Care) Automotive Warehouse Distributors Association (AWDA) California Automotive Wholesalers Association (CAWA) International Hot Rod Association (IHRA) Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) Motorcycle Industry Council (MIC) Motorcycle Riders Foundation (MRF) National Association of Trailer Manufacturers (NATM) North American Trailer Dealers Association (NATDA) Off-Road Business Association (ORBA) Service Station Dealers of America and Allied Trades (SSDA-AT) Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA) Tire Industry Association (TIA)
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Burr, King Unite to Renew Push for Affordable Childcare WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Angus King (I-Maine) renewed their push to make childcare more affordable for families across the country by reintroducing the PACE Act. The legislation would update the federal government’s childcare-related tax credits to make them more useful to American families at a time when the costs of childcare remain prohibitively high. “Childcare tax credits work,” said Senator Burr. “This is an issue that I’ve been working on with Sen. King for years, and I will continue to push for commonsense solutions that saves American families money. President Trump has prioritized making childcare more affordable through the tax code, so we feel strongly that the PACE Act should be on the table as a way to help working families afford the safe child care they need.” “Too often today, the rising costs of childcare force parents to stay home from work or put their kids in less than ideal childcare situations – and neither of those circumstances are good,” Senator King said. “We need to bring the federal government’s childcare tax benefits out of the past and into the 21st century so that they reflect the realities that families face today and can provide them with the real, substantial assistance they were intended to. Doing so will benefit children, working families, and the Maine economy.” For too many families, the cost of childcare can make it difficult to maintain employment and make ends meet. In nearly half of the country, the annual cost of full-time childcare for a 4-year old is greater than the average cost of in-state tuition at a 4-year college or university. Those pressures are felt most by low-wage workers who spend on average more than 30 percent of their income on childcare. While the federal government provides two significant tax benefits to help offset childcare costs – the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC) and Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) – they are both in need of an update. For example, neither policies have kept pace with inflation, meaning they have become less useful over time as the cost of childcare increases. The PACE Act would enact several changes to make both tax policies immediately more generous and modify them to reflect the changing economic landscape by requiring an annual inflation adjustments that will provide families with greater spending power when seeking care for their children. Because both tax provisions affect care for the elderly and individuals with disabilities, those enhanced benefits will extend to them as well. More specifically, the legislation would: Modernize the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit by: Making the credit refundable in order to expand the credit’s reach to low-income working parents Increase the value of the credit by raising the credit rate for families of all income levels and creating a new top credit rate of 50 percent that phases down to 35 percent for higher-income families in order to expand the reach of the credit and put more money back into the pockets of working parents Indexing the credit to inflation to ensure the value of the credit will not be eroded over time by rising childcare costs, but instead, will remain at a sufficient level to help make costs more affordable. Enhance Dependent Care Flexible Spend Accounts (FSAs) by: Increasing the amount of pre-tax dollars families can put into these accounts from $5,000 to $7,500. This exclusion from gross income allows families to save money on income and FICA taxes, and the PACE Act’s increase means those savings will go even further than current law’s. Indexing the new cap to inflation so FSAs can keep pace with the cost of childcare. Because the current $5,000 cap is not indexed to inflation, families are falling further and further behind the rising cost of care. By raising the cap to $7,500, and indexing that amount to inflation, the PACE Act ensures FSAs are reliably updated to keep steady a parent’s purchasing power for their child’s care. The legislation has been endorsed by the Maine Children’s Alliance, First Focus Campaign for Children, National Association for the Education of Young Children, and the Save the Children Action Network. To read a copy of the legislation, click HERE. To read a one-page summary of the legislation, click HERE. Senators King and Burr introduced a similar piece of legislation last year.
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on the Senate Confirmation of CIA Director Pompeo WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS) to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency: “Today, the Senate voted overwhelmingly to confirm Rep. Mike Pompeo to be the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. While I’m disappointed Senate democrats insisted on delaying his vote, I’m pleased he is in place and ready to help keep our country safe. He is well equipped to handle the demands of CIA Director. I know he will ensure that the CIA is well positioned to reinforce our national security in the coming years.”
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement after Meeting with Former Sen. Coats, Nominee for Director of National Intelligence WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement after meeting with former Senator Dan Coats (R-Indiana) whom President Donald Trump has nominated to be the next Director of National Intelligence: “President Trump could not have selected a more qualified or distinguished individual to lead our Intelligence Community than my friend and colleague Dan Coats. Dan’s honorable military service, time as U.S. Ambassador to Germany, and decades of service to our country have prepared him well to serve as the next Director of National Intelligence. He is an excellent choice and I look forward to supporting his nomination and working with him in his new role.”
01.20.2017	01.20.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on the Delay of Pompeo Vote to Lead CIA WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the delay of the floor vote for Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS) to lead the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) after a Senate vote to proceed to his nomination passed overwhelmingly this evening: “It’s unfortunate that after hours in a public hearing and hours in a closed hearing, having answered more than 150 questions for the record and volunteering to meet personally with every member on the Committee, one member felt they hadn’t had enough time to assess a nominee’s qualifications. This will leave the CIA without a permanent director in a period of heightened threats to the United States and our interests abroad. I’m pleased that Congressman Pompeo will get a vote on Monday and will be the Director of the CIA.”
01.19.2017	01.19.17 Treasury Nominee Mnuchin Commits to Burr Plan to Clean Up IRS Misconduct WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Committee on Finance held a confirmation hearing for Treasury Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin. Committee member Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) questioned Mnuchin about his plans to clean up misconduct by Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employees. Cleaning up IRS misconduct, especially the practice of rewarding IRS employees who do not pay their personal taxes and rehiring employees that were previously fired for misconduct, has long been a priority for Senator Burr. WATCH: FINANCE: Burr Questions Mnuchin About IRS Misconduct BURR: “In April 2014 the Treasury [Inspector General] came out with a study, he found that the Internal Revenue Service had paid out $2.8 million in bonuses, as well as tens of thousands of hours of leave, and hundreds of pay step increases to employees who were tax delinquent or had committed serious misconduct including fraud and drug abuse…Will you commit to me today to change this policy?” MNUCHIN: “It sounds very concerning. I commit to work with you and your staff on it. Absolutely.” BURR: “In another report, December 2014, the Inspector General of the IRS discovered that they had repeatedly hired employees who were fired for poor conduct and performance after lengthy examination processes on their employment. In fact, the Treasury watchdog found that in a sample of 7,163 employees who were rehired by the IRS, 824, or 11 percent of them, had bad performance in their record as to why they were fired in the first place. And in some instances, it said in their records, ‘do not rehire’ yet the IRS rehired them. Do you pledge to this committee to change that insane policy at the IRS.” MNUCHIN: “That sounds like the most commonsense thing I’ve ever heard. So yes, I absolutely am committed to that.” In the 114th Congress, Senator Burr introduced a package of legislation to address shameful employment policies at the IRS. The Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2016 addresses unsettling evidence uncovered by the Treasury Watchdog that the IRS repeatedly rehired employees who were fired for poor conduct and performance after a lengthy examination process. This legislation will require the IRS to stop this practice. The watchdog’s report even found that an employee who had “Do Not Rehire” stamped on their personnel file was rehired. In February 2016, Sen. Burr penned an op-ed and confronted IRS Commissioner Koskinen about this disturbing practice. The No Bonuses for Tax Cheats Act withholds bonuses from federal employees who are delinquent on their taxes or have engaged in documented misconduct. In April of 2014, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration issued a report that found the Internal Revenue Service had paid $2.8 million in bonuses, as well as tens of thousands of hours of leave and hundreds of pay-step increases to employees who were tax delinquent or had committed serious misconduct, including fraud and drug use. The IRS Accountability Act of 2015 will keep IRS bureaucrats accountable to the American people by giving the IRS Commissioner new authority to fire senior executives who have failed in their performance or committed misconduct. This legislation is based on a law Congress passed in the wake of the VA health care scandal that enables the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to fire senior executives for misconduct.
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Burr Statement Following Confirmation Hearing for Education Secretary Nominee Betsy DeVos WASHINGTON – The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions yesterday held a confirmation hearing for Education Secretary nominee Betsy DeVos. Committee member Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I’m glad that we had a lively discussion with Betsy DeVos about her vision for the Department of Education,” said Senator Burr. “Her commitment to improving education and expanding opportunity for our students is unmatched. Betsy DeVos is the person we need for this job and I am proud to support her nomination.”
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Joint Statement on Committee Inquiry into Russian Intelligence Activities WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today issued a joint statement regarding the Committee’s inquiry into Russian intelligence activities: “As part of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence’s oversight responsibilities we believe that it is critical to have a full understanding of the scope of Russian intelligence activities impacting the United States. In the course of its regular work, the Committee conducts oversight of the Intelligence Community’s collection and analysis related to Russia; however, the October 7, 2016, joint statement on election security from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), combined with the declassified Intelligence Community Assessment (ICA) of “Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections” raise profound concerns. The Committee will, therefore, conduct a bipartisan inquiry of the intelligence reporting behind the Intelligence Community assessments from January 6, 2017 on this subject. The scope of the Committee’s inquiry will include, but is not limited to: A review of the intelligence that informed the Intelligence Community Assessment “Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections;” Counterintelligence concerns related to Russia and the 2016 U.S. election, including any intelligence regarding links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns; Russian cyber activity and other “active measures” directed against the U.S., both as it regards the 2016 election and more broadly. The Committee plans to: Hold hearings examining Russian intelligence activity; Interview senior officials of both the outgoing and incoming administrations including the issuance of subpoenas if necessary to compel testimony; and Produce both classified and unclassified reports on its findings. The Committee will follow the intelligence wherever it leads. We will conduct this inquiry expeditiously, and we will get it right. When possible, the Committee will hold open hearings to help inform the public about the issues. That said, we will be conducting the bulk of the Committee’s business behind closed doors because we take seriously our obligation to protect sources and methods. As the Committee’s investigation progresses, we will keep Senate leadership, and the broader body, apprised of our findings. We have received assurance from the Director of National Intelligence that the Intelligence Community will fully and promptly support our requests for information related to the investigation, and we have every reason to believe that commitment will be honored by the incoming administration. Majority Leader McConnell and Democratic Leader Schumer have made it clear they expect any investigation into Russia’s involvement in our nation’s elections to be conducted in a bipartisan manner. It is a charge the SSCI takes seriously, as bipartisanship—in fact, non-partisanship—is at the very core of the Committee’s charter and is essential to preserving the intelligence equities involved.” In addition to the joint statement, the Senators offered additional comment separately. “As I indicated in my December statement, the SSCI has focused a great deal of attention on Russia’s behavior around the world,” said Chairman Burr. “Over the last two years, we have held more than ten hearings and briefings on these issues, with four reviewing Russia’s so-called ‘active measures.’” “The SSCI was established to oversee the intelligence activities and programs of the United States Government, and to ensure that the appropriate departments and agencies provided informed and timely intelligence to our nation’s leaders,” Burr added, “and part of our inquiry will necessarily be focused on what happened, and what didn’t happen, in this case.” Of the investigation, Vice Chairman Warner said, “This issue impacts the foundations of our democratic system, it’s that important. This requires a full, deep, and bipartisan examination. At this time, I believe that this Committee is clearly best positioned to take on that responsibility, but whoever does this needs to do it right. If it turns out that SSCI cannot properly conduct this investigation, I will support legislation to empower whoever can do it right. That is my position now, and it will be my position for the duration of the investigation. I look forward to working with Chairman Burr on this tremendously important matter.”
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Senate Intel Committee Advances Intelligence Authorization Bill WASHINGTON – The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence yesterday passed the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 by unanimous consent. This legislation authorizes funding for the U.S. intelligence community. “Our action yesterday represents an effort by the Committee to complete the unfinished legislative business of the 114th Congress,” said Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA). “We look forward to its expeditious consideration by the full Senate.” The bill authorizes funding for the U.S. intelligence community, provides needed legal authorities, and imposes oversight requirements: Promotes the hiring, further education, and retention of employees with science, technology, engineering, or math expertise. Provides death benefits to employees of the Central Intelligence Agency similar to those authorized for members of the Foreign Service. Provides protections for independent inspectors general of elements of the Intelligence Community. Requires the President to establish an interagency committee to counter Russian active measures.
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Dept. of Veterans Affairs Announces Compensation for Lejeune Veterans Affected by Tainted Water WASHINGTON – Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs published a regulation announcing compensation payments to Marines suffering from health problems caused by tainted water at Camp Lejeune. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) has long fought for medical coverage and compensation for Lejeune veterans suffering from medical conditions including multiple kinds of cancer and Parkinson’s disease. “It’s about time, these veterans put their lives on the line for our nation and they were negligently poisoned by the government,” said Senator Richard Burr. “We know that toxic water at Lejeune caused a host of debilitating medical conditions that service members are suffering and dying from. These men and women deserve this help.” “I applaud today’s announcement that the Department of Veterans Affairs has finalized the agency rule to grant disability benefits to servicemembers who were exposed to contaminated drinking water while stationed at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “These veterans have waited far too long, and I want to thank Senator Burr, Jerry Ensminger, and the entire Camp Lejeune Community Assistance Panel for their tireless efforts to bring justice to these veterans and to make them whole once again. I look forward to those affected receiving the compensation they deserve, and I encourage any veteran who experiences difficulty receiving their disability payment to contact my office immediately.” The rule will provide compensation for veterans that served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987. Service members suffering from the following eight diseases automatically qualify for compensation: Kidney cancer Liver cancer Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Adult leukemia Multiple myeloma Parkinson’s disease Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes Bladder cancer The VA estimates that more than 900,000 service members could have been exposed to toxic water. Senator Burr has worked tirelessly to secure the medical care and compensation for veterans affected by toxic water at Camp Lejeune. In 2015, the VA granted disability status to victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water. The federal rule is available online here.
01.10.2017	01.10.17 Hearing for CIA Director Nominee Pompeo Moved to Thursday WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced the hearing for Central Intelligence Agency Director nominee Michael R. Pompeo will take place on January 12th, 2017, one day later than previously scheduled. Details Hearing: Hearing for Rep. Michael R. Pompeo, Nominee for Director of Central Intelligence Agency Witness: Rep. Michael R. Pompeo (R-KS), Nominee for Director of Central Intelligence Agency When: Thursday, January 12th 2017 at 10:00 am Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
01.09.2017	01.09.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Nomination of Former Sen. Coats to Director of National Intelligence WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the nomination of former Senator Dan Coats (R-Indiana) to Director of National Intelligence: “I’m pleased to hear the President-elect has nominated my colleague and friend Dan Coats to be the next head of our Intelligence Community. Dan’s experience as a valued member of the Senate Intelligence Committee will help to guide him as the next Director of National Intelligence. His years of honorable service in Congress, the U.S. Army and his time as Ambassador have proven his dedication to the American people. I’ve seen first-hand his deep understanding of the Intelligence Community and he is a fine choice.”
01.06.2017	01.06.17 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Intelligence Community Report on Russian Actions WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the newly released, declassified version of the Director of National Intelligence’s report on Russia’s hacking interference in 2016: “The Intelligence Community's report on Russian activities and intentions in recent US elections highlights for the American people the direct and aggressive covert influence campaign conducted against our nation. The Committee will continue to compile the facts surrounding Russia’s active measures as part of our directed investigation by Leader McConnell. This is a troubling chapter in an ongoing story, and I expect that out our nation's leaders will counter these activities appropriately.”
01.06.2017	01.06.17 Senate Intel Committee Open Hearing Tuesday on Russian Intelligence Activities WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced an open hearing on Russia’s intelligence activities for Tuesday, January 10th. Details Hearing: Russian Intelligence Activities Witnesses: James Clapper, Director of National Intelligence John Brennan, Director, Central Intelligence Agency Admiral Michael Rogers, Director, National Security Agency James Comey, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation When: Tuesday, January 10th 2017 at 1:00 pm Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106 A closed briefing to the committee may follow the open session.
01.04.2017	01.04.17 Senate Intel Committee Announces Nomination Hearing for CIA Director Nominee Pompeo WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that the nomination hearing for Central Intelligence Agency Director Michael R. Pompeo will take place on January 11th, 2017. Details Hearing: Confirmation Hearing for Rep. Michael R. Pompeo, Nominee for Director of Central Intelligence Agency Witness: Rep. Michael R. Pompeo (R-KS), Nominee for Director of Central Intelligence Agency When: Wednesday, January 11th 2017 at 10:00 am Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216
01.03.2017	01.03.17 Senate Intelligence Committee Welcomes Members for 115th Congress WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, welcome the 115th Congress Committee members: Richard Burr, North Carolina (Chairman) Jim Risch, Idaho Marco Rubio, Florida Susan Collins, Maine Roy Blunt, Missouri James Lankford, Oklahoma Tom Cotton, Arkansas John Cornyn, Texas Mark Warner, Virginia (Vice Chairman) Dianne Feinstein, California Ron Wyden, Oregon Martin Heinrich, New Mexico Angus King, Maine Joe Manchin, West Virginia Kamala Harris, California
12.19.2016	12.19.16 President Obama Signs Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization into Law WASHINGTON – On Friday afternoon, President Obama signed the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act into law. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) led the effort in the Senate to reauthorize this legislation which encourages the Justice Department to investigate civil rights era cold cases. Senator Burr worked in partnership with Alvin Sykes, a civil rights activist and friend of the Till family, who has worked tirelessly to bring justice for the families of the victims of unsolved civil rights crimes. “I want to thank the Till family, Alvin Sykes, Congressman John Lewis, and all of the civil rights activists who helped make this law a reality,” said Senator Burr. “Now that this bill is law, investigators can now work to discover the truth and to seek justice under our legal system for the families of these victims. Every American is worthy of the protection of our laws.”
12.16.2016	12.16.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Committee’s Review of Russian Intelligence WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI), made the following statement on the planned review of Russian intelligence activities: “The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) was established to oversee the intelligence activities and programs of the United States Government, and to ensure that the appropriate departments and agencies provide informed and timely intelligence to our nation’s leaders. The threats and challenges facing our country are numerous, and one of the Committee’s obligations is to ensure that the Intelligence Community is positioned to understand those threats—to the greatest extent possible—and to communicate their assessments of those threats to our nation’s civilian and military leadership so that they may respond accordingly. The SSCI has focused a great deal of attention in recent years, during my tenure as Chairman as well as under the leadership of former Chairman Feinstein, on Russia’s behavior around the world. Over the last two years, the Committee has held more than ten hearings and briefings on these issues, with four reviewing Russia’s so-called ‘active measures.’ During the 115th Congress, the SSCI will continue its review of the intelligence surrounding these issues. This will include conducting a thorough examination of the underpinnings of the intelligence that prompted the Administration to issue the October 7 statement that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of U.S. political organizations. Among other avenues of inquiry, the Committee will: Review the all-source intelligence that informed its assessments, including but not limited to the October 7 statement. Review the cyber activity directed against our nation by the Russian Government, both as it regards the 2016 Election and more broadly. Hold hearings examining other specific aspects of Russian behavior. Interview senior officials of both the outgoing and incoming administrations including the issuance of subpoenas if necessary to compel testimony. The Committee’s role is not only to ensure that the intelligence provided to policymakers is of the highest quality, but to understand how policymakers use that intelligence. This includes possible intelligence collected on Russian “active measures” in the US political sphere in 2016. The Committee will follow the intelligence wherever it leads. We will conduct this review expeditiously, but we will take the time to get it right and will not be influenced by uninformed discourse. When appropriate, the Committee will hold open hearings to help inform the public about the issues. That said, we will be conducting the bulk of the Committee’s business behind closed doors, because we take seriously our obligation to protect sources and methods. As the Committee’s review progresses, we will keep Senate leadership, and the broader body, apprised of our findings. Majority Leader McConnell and incoming Minority Leader Schumer have made it clear they expect any review of Russia’s involvement in our nation’s elections to be conducted in a bipartisan manner. It is a charge the SSCI takes seriously, as bipartisanship—in fact, non-partisanship—is at the very core of the Committee’s charter and is essential to preserving the intelligence equities involved. Finally, a note about the men and women of the Intelligence Community. Without exception, I know them to be hard-working, patriotic Americans. They care deeply about their country, and work every day to keep us safe. They come from all walks of life and hold views across the political spectrum. Unlike many in Washington, though, they check politics at the office door and focus on their mission. They are tasked with keeping our nation's leaders well-informed about events around the world. While their failures are often well known, their successes rarely see the light of day. We would all do well to remember the sacrifices they make on our behalf and keep in mind that what we do with the intelligence they provide is up to us.”
12.12.2016	12.12.16 Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act Passed by Congress WASHINGTON-- On Saturday December 10th in its final session of the 114th Congress, the Senate passed the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016 (S.2854/H.R.5067). In the Senate the bill was led by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO). In the House, original sponsors were Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), and Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI). BACKGROUND Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and few attempts to prosecute them were ever pursued. Tuskegee Institute once kept a record of verified lynchings in the United States from 1877 to 1950. The institute documented that nearly 4000 mainly unprosecuted civil rights crimes occurred during that period. Many American families continue to pass down stories of loss and disappearance even today without knowing the truth about what actually happened to their loved ones. PRIMARY GOALS OF THE BILL The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act represents a critical opportunity to right these wrongs committed, primarily against African Americans, but also against people of diverse backgrounds. In some cases, individuals still remain who were witnesses to these crimes or who can help provide evidence regarding these incidents. This bill reauthorizes and updates the original legislation that was signed into law in 2008. It seeks to respond to the concerns of victims' family members and strengthen collaboration between the Justice Department, the FBI, State and local law enforcement, and advocates to pursue these cold cases. There is a collective goal to seek the truth about this long-standing tragedies and hold the perpetrators and orchestrators of these atrocities accountable. This reauthorization also seeks to respond to the concerns of advocates regarding the implementation of the original legislation. BI-PARTISAN and BI-CAMERAL STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT "When this bill was signed into law, family members, academics, historians, lawyers, advocates began working to develop a full accounting for these long-standing, gross human and civil rights atrocities. The reauthorization passed by Congress is a response to their appeals to make the law a better tool in their quest for justice. We also worked across the aisle and across the Dome to develop a bill that fulfills our promise to remain committed to the pursuit of truth on behalf of victims and their families. I am very pleased that Congress has passed this legislation and I look forward to the signature of President Barack Obama." Rep. John Lewis - GA “I am pleased that this bill is now finally heading to the President’s desk. Investigators can now work to discover the truth and to seek justice under our legal system for the families of these victims. Every American is worthy of the protection of our laws. I want to thank the Till family, Alvin Sykes, Congressman John Lewis, and all of the civil rights activists who helped make this law a reality. Today’s victory is theirs.” Sen. Richard Burr - NC “Too many families suffer from the unsolved murders of their loved ones during the civil rights era without receiving justice. The way to best serve these families is to provide our Federal government with the tools it needs to investigate these unsolved crimes, and to hopefully, bring some sense of closure for these families. I thank Congressman Lewis for his tireless work on behalf of the families of these victims of unsolved murders from the civil rights era and I am proud to stand with him on this effort.” Sen. Patrick Leahy - VT “This legislation brings justice and closure to the families and communities affected by the heinous acts of violence and hatred that are a stain on our nation’s history. The bill will help us continue the critical work of better investigating and solving these crimes, no matter how long ago they occurred, and I’m thrilled we’ve finally been able to carry it across the finish line.” Sen. Claire McCaskill - MO “The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act sets out to investigate racially-motivated murders. Sadly, there is still more work to be done and it’s important that we reauthorize this bill so that the FBI and DOJ can continue investigating unsolved crimes.” Sen. Roy Blunt - MO “As an original cosponsor of the Emmett Till Reauthorization Act, I’m pleased to see my colleagues came together and supported this important bill. This bipartisan legislation will provide for a sustained, well-coordinated effort to investigate and prosecute unsolved civil rights-era crimes. There are hundreds of cold cases from the civil rights era that have never been solved and it is my hope that we are able to bring justice to the victims’ families.” Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner - WI "As we work to address current questions about racial violence and civil rights, we should be mindful of our history and why so many in the African-American community raise the issue of whether black lives matter. Passage of the original Emmett Till Act represented a commitment to resolving the unanswered questions from one of the darkest periods in modern American history. This bipartisan reauthorization represents a further investment in our history and will allow the Department of Justice to resolve remaining issues." Rep. John Conyers, Jr. - MI MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION This bill requires the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with civil rights organizations, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence in these cold cases; Provides clearer direction and improved coordination between federal, state, and local law enforcement and the activists, advocates, and academics working on these issues; Strengthens the Department of Justice’s reporting requirements; Expands the time span of cases to be considered by ten years, to include all cases that occurred not later than December 31, 1979; Eliminates the sunset provision in the original bill; Encourages the Department of Justice to review specific closed cases that warrant further investigation; Maintains the previous investigation structure and funding levels; and Clarifies the law’s intent.
12.10.2016	12.10.16 Legislation Protecting Western N.C. Houseboats Passes Senate WASHINGTON – Oversight, the Senate passed Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis’ (R-NC) legislation to prevent the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) from banning houseboats on Lake Fontana and Hiwasee Lake. TVA’s original proposed ban on houseboats would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners in Western North Carolina. The language was included in the Water Resources Development compromise bill which is now headed to President Obama’s desk. “This legislation will prevent the Tennessee Valley Authority from kicking people out of their homes,” said Senator Burr. “I want to thank Congressman Mark Meadows for his work on this issue in the House. Many of these families have been living on the water for decades and I am glad they will get to remain in their homes.” “I’m proud the Senate was able to advance this important piece of legislation,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senator Burr and Congressman Meadows for their hard work to ensure that houseboat owners on Fontana Lake won't lose their homes.” In August, Senator Burr wrote a letter to the Tennessee Valley Authority urging the agency to reconsider this proposal which would effectively ban houseboats in some parts of Western North Carolina. The full signed letter is available online here.
12.09.2016	12.09.16 Senator Burr Statement on $330 million in Disaster Relief for NC in CR WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) praised the Senate for passing legislation today by a vote of 63 to 36 that included over $330 million for disaster relief for North Carolina. Voting today on both the Continuing Resolution and the Water Resources Development Act, these pieces of legislation provide assistance for parts of North Carolina devastated by Hurricane Matthew. Additionally, WRDA maintains over $50 million in funding for natural disasters. “I’ve worked with Sen. Thom Tillis to make sure that North Carolina can quickly bounce back from natural disasters, including recovering from damage incurred by Hurricane Matthew. I’m proud of our work on this legislation and know that North Carolinians are resilient and quick to restore towns affected by this year’s devastating hurricane, and the flooding that resulted.”
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Senator Burr Statement on Meeting with Rep. Tom Price for HHS Secretary WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today met with Representative Tom Price, M.D., whom President-Elect Donald Trump has named as his pick to head the Department of Health and Human Services: “I look forward to getting Congressman Price through the confirmation process in the Senate. His knowledge of the healthcare system is a true benefit to the American people. I know he will be a superb HHS Secretary and promptly find solutions to the broken Obamacare system. As a doctor, I know he will work to provide the American people with as many healthcare choices as possible.” Senator Burr is a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Senate Approves Nearly $300 Million for N.C. Military Construction Projects WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act conference report. The legislation, which works out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Authorization bills that passed earlier this year, funds our nation’s military including $297.1 million for military construction projects in North Carolina. The conference report also includes provisions sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to prevent the transfer of Guantanamo Bay Naval Station to Cuba without congressional approval and to protect the military commissary benefit. “We need to support our men and women who serve,” said Senator Burr. “This legislation is proof that the Senate is working on issues that matter to the American people. The military has a significant presence in North Carolina and this bill continues the investments that we need to be prepared to face future threats to national security.” The conference report provides funding for the following military construction projects in North Carolina: Camp Lejeune - $18.482 Million for Range Facilities Safety Improvements Camp Lejeune - $31 Million for Dental Clinic Replacement Cherry Point MCAS - $12.515 Million for Central Heating Plant Conversion Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $29.6 Million for C-17 Corrosion Control/Fuel Cell Hangar Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $21 Million for C-17 Type III Hydrant Refueling System Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $5.7 Million for KC-46A ADAL Building for AGE/Fuselage Training Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $2.25 Million KC-46A ADAL Squadron Operations Facilities Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $90 Million for KC-46A Two Bay Corrosion/Fuel Cell Hangar Fort Bragg - $10.905 Million for SOF Combat Medical Training Facility Fort Bragg - $21.420 Million for SOF Parachute Rigging Facility Fort Bragg - $30.670 Million for SOF Special Tactics Facility (Phase 3) Fort Bragg - $23.598 Million for SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility Total for North Carolina - $297.140 Million
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Senate Passes 21st Century Cures Legislation, Includes Key Health Care Innovation Bills Championed by Burr WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed the 21st Century Cures Act by a vote of 94-5. The bipartisan legislation includes several health care provisions written by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) as well as $4.8 billion in targeted funding for the National Institutes of Health to accelerate key research initiatives, including the Precision Medicine Initiative and the Vice President’s Cancer Moonshot. The 21st Century Cures Act also provides $1 billion to help states combat our nation’s tragic opioid abuse epidemic. “This landmark legislation sends the unequivocal message that the United States has never been more serious about leading the world in medical innovation,” said Senator Richard Burr. “As our nation ushers in a new and defining era of medical discovery and development, it is critical that we seize this opportunity to better serve Americans battling devastating diseases. This bill will not only spur the innovation that will save and improve lives, but better prepare us for the serious health care challenges and threats we face. While our work on these issues will never be done, the Cures bill offers great hope to so many by supporting those on the front lines of discovering, developing, delivering, and defining quality health care for years to come.” The following Burr bills are included in the 21st Century Cures Act: Advancing Breakthrough Devices for Patients Act– This legislation builds on the Advancing Breakthrough Therapies for Patients Act, which the Senate passed in 2012 from Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Burr. This legislation will ensure an “all-hands-on-deck” approach to devices, while also complementing and enhancing the existing tools, such as priority review, currently in place for devices, with the goal of expediting the development and review of breakthrough products. Senators Michael Bennet and Orrin Hatch are original cosponsors of this bill. FDA Device Accountability Act – This bill ensures that the FDA eliminates unnecessary burdens when reviewing devices, permits more efficient device clinical trials; and requires the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to update guidance on certain point-of-care tests performed in doctors’ offices. Senator Burr introduced this bill with Senator Al Franken (D-MN). Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act – This legislation affirms the FDA’s authority to allow innovators to use their own data supporting the approval of a targeted therapy to help facilitate additional targeted therapies to treat patients with the same rare disease. Senator Bur introduced this legislation with Senators Michael Bennet, Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Orrin Hatch. Medical Countermeasure Innovation Act – This legislation encourages the development of medical countermeasures, including drugs, devices and preventative treatments, needed to protect the American people in the event of a global pandemic or biological weapon attack. Despite recent improvements in America’s readiness and response capabilities, the Ebola outbreak and the emergence of public health threats like Zika, make it clear that more needs to be done to ensure our nation is prepared to protect Americans from these threats. This legislation further supports the development of life-saving products against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats regardless of whether they are naturally-occurring or the result of a deliberate terrorist attack. Senator Burr introduced this legislation with Senator Bob Casey (D-PA). Sens. Burr and Alexander (R-TN) began the process for advancing Cures legislation this Congress in the United States Senate with the release of joint report in 2015 entitled Innovation for Healthier Americans. ###
12.06.2016	12.06.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Today’s Meeting with Rep. Pompeo WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement after meeting with Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS), President Elect Donald Trump’s nominee for Director of the Central Intelligence Agency: “Representative Pompeo and I had a productive and engaging conversation today as we discussed his nomination to be the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Mike’s intellectual rigor, honorable service, and outstanding judgment make him a natural fit to lead what I believe to be one of our nation’s most treasured assets. I look forward to supporting his nomination and ensuring its consideration without delay.”
12.02.2016	12.02.16 Charlotte Weather Radar Study Passes Senate WASHINGTON – Last night, the Senate unanimously passed an amended version of The Metropolitan Weather Hazards Protection Act. The legislation, sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), directs the National Weather Service (NWS) to study areas of the country, including the Charlotte metropolitan area, with inadequate weather radar and develop a plan to improve radar coverage. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) is a cosponsor of the final bill. “Our nation has an excellent weather radar system, but there are holes we need to fix,” said Senator Burr. “Weather radar coverage is dangerously deficient in the Charlotte area; my bill is an important step forward to addressing this public safety concern. Just this week, a tornado touched down in Mecklenburg County. Unlike the disastrous tornado event of 2012, we received a warning, but it underscores the reality that Charlotte can experience sudden weather shifts, and we need all the tools available to keep residents safe. I’m glad Senator Maria Cantwell and I could work together to pass this important legislation in the Senate, and I’m looking forward to working with Representative Robert Pittenger to pass this bill in the House.” Charlotte is currently covered by a NWS Doppler radar that is 94 miles away in Greer, SC. However, no other city of Charlotte’s size currently has a radar situated more than 58 miles away. The current location results in a majority of the metropolitan area being without radar beam coverage below 10,000 feet. Due to the circumference of the earth the further a radar is away from a given point, the higher the radar beam scans the atmosphere, leading to lower resolutions and an inability to detect the low-level dynamics of severe weather. Rowan, Cabarrus, and Davidson Counties have an even more pronounced problem with limited radar coverage because of the location of the radar. This map from Brad Panovich, Chief Meteorologist WCNC-TV, clearly shows the gap in quality radar coverage over Charlotte: Local meteorologists believe that the lack of quality radar coverage has made it difficult for the NWS office in Spartanburg to detect severe weather, specifically tornadoes. These meteorologists who understand the intricacies of weather in the Piedmont believe that the lack of a NWS Doppler radar in Charlotte contributed to the lack of a warning for a tornado that affected Mecklenburg, Rowan, and Cabarrus Counties in March of 2012 that damaged 192 homes. The failure was not the fault of the NWS, as it can be very difficult to detect rotation in the thunderstorms that tend to effect North Carolina; however, the lack of a Doppler radar for the Piedmont enhances the problem. This legislation will give the NWS, local and state officials, and news outlets the tools they need to protect our citizens. Letters from three area meteorologists are available here: WGHP, WCNC and WBTV
12.01.2016	12.01.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Iran Sanctions Act Vote WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on today’s Senate passage of the Iran Sanctions Act: “Today the Republican led Senate voted to reauthorize sanctions against Iran through 2026. Iran remains the number one state sponsor of terrorism, and we cannot allow this regime to grow stronger under President Obama. We must continue to hold Iran accountable for their threats against America and our allies.”
11.26.2016	11.26.16 Senator Burr Statement on Death of Dictator Fidel Castro WASHINGTON — Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the death of Fidel Castro: “Fidel Castro was a despot whose main legacy is the oppression of his people. The communist government he reigned over deprived the citizens of Cuba many basic rights. In order to flee his murderous regime, many Cubans chose to risk their lives so that they might live freely in the United States. My hope is that with the death of Castro, Cubans will no longer live in fear of speaking freely or living as they wish. Instead of mourning the death of Castro, let us instead remember those whose lives were cut short as a result of his dictatorship.”
11.18.2016	11.18.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Nomination of Pompeo to CIA WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the proposed appointment of Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS) to the Central Intelligence Agency: “Congressman Pompeo is well equipped to handle the demands of CIA Director. I respect him as a colleague, and he is more than capable of handling this challenging role. I look forward to working with him to ensure that the CIA is well positioned to reinforce our national security in the coming years.”
11.17.2016	11.17.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Retirement Announcement of DNI Clapper WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on today’s retirement announcement of Director of National Intelligence, Jim Clapper: “Director Clapper has served our country honorably and with distinction in every capacity requested of him, and I thank him for his service to our nation. Jim’s depth of experience gave him the unique ability to fully understand the range of challenges to our national security. Amidst evolving challenges from our adversaries, Jim has continued to reinforce our intelligence relationships with our allies and successfully managed the intelligence community enterprise. Those of us who know Jim know he has been looking forward to his retirement for some time, and we wish him all the best.”
11.16.2016	11.16.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Congratulates Vice Chairman Feinstein on New Post, Welcomes Warner as Top Democrat on Intel WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on Senator Dianne Feinstein’s (D-CA) new post as Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee: “I congratulate my colleague Senator Feinstein on her new post as the senior Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee. I have enjoyed engaging with her as a valued partner to conduct necessary oversight of the intelligence community over the last two years, and I look forward to working with her in her new role. I also welcome Senator Mark Warner (D-VA) as the new Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. I know we will continue our collective efforts to both oversee the intelligence community and ensure that we do all we can to reinforce our national security at home and abroad.”
11.04.2016	11.04.16 Hurricane Matthew: Assistance for North Carolina Families and Businesses Assistance for North Carolina Families and Businesses The following counties have been designated for Individual Assistance by the President: Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Moore, Nash, Northampton, Onslow, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Richmond, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Tyrrell, Wake, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson. People living in these counties can register with FEMA to access all federal assistance programs: Apply online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Constituents may call the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. North Carolina residents who suffered losses and damage as a result of Hurricane Matthew can get information about disaster assistance at Disaster Recovery Centers (DRC). Find the locations through the FEMA app or at http://www.ncdps.gov/disaster-recovery-centers. Certain businesses and individuals living in counties with Individual Assistance designations may qualify for tax filing deadline postponements. For more information click here or contact the IRS disaster hotline at 866-562-5227. Dial 211 for North Carolina’s toll-free emergency hotline If you need Red Cross assistance, please call 1-800-768-8048. For information on how to help those effected by Matthew, click here. Additional Information can be found at: www.DisasterAssistance.gov and https://readync.org/ Download the FEMA mobile app for disaster resources, weather alerts, and safety tips. The app provides a customizable checklist of emergency supplies, maps of open shelters and recovery centers, disaster survival tips, and weather alerts from the National Weather Service. The app also enables users to receive push notifications reminding them to take important steps to prepare their homes and families for disasters. Please be aware of SCAMS Federal and state workers never ask for, or accept money, and always carry identification badges. There is NO FEE required to apply for or to get disaster assistance from FEMA, the U.S. Small Business Administration or the state. Scam attempts can be made over the phone, by mail or email, text or in person. Anyone who suspects fraud should call FEMA’s Disaster Fraud Hotline at 866-720-5721, or the state’s Attorney General fraud hotline. Help with SBA Loans The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) offers low-interest disaster loans to help homeowners and renters as well as businesses of all sizes and private non-profit organizations to cover the cost of replacing lost or disaster-damaged personal property. These disaster loans cover losses not fully compensated by insurance or other recoveries and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. Contact U.S. Small Business Administration’s Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center by: Calling 800-659-2955 Emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov Visiting SBA’s website at www.sba.gov/disaster Deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals may call 800-877-8339 North Carolina Assistance Programs COMMUNITY RESOURCES TO HELP WITH RECOVERY United Way North Carolina 2-1-1: www.nc211.org/ Salvation Army: (800) 725-2769 Catholic Charities of Raleigh: (919) 790-8533 Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) disaster resources: (202) 708-1112,TTY: (202) 708-1455 http://portal.hud.gov EMPLOYMENT HELP Career One Stop: (877) 872-5627 or TTY (877) 889-5627, www.careeronestop.org FOOD NEEDS North Carolina Food Services: (919) 855-4800 or www.ncdhhs.gov Feeding America: www.feedingamerica.org Food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina: www.foodbankenc.org Albemarle Food Bank: www.afoodbank.org USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline for food safety: (888) 674-6854 HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES FOR THOSE IN NEED North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services: (919) 855-4800 or www.ncdhhs.gov HELP FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES Helping paying bills for low-income families www.needhelppayingbills.com HOT LINES FOR EMERGENCY HELP If you or someone you know is in immediate danger because of thoughts of suicide Suicide Hotline: (800) 784-2433 or (800) 273-8255 or www.suicide.org The National Domestic Violence hotline: (800)799-7233 Alcoholics Anonymous: www.aa.org FARM SERVICES AVAILABLE Farm Service Agency: (919) 875-4800 www.fsa.usda.gov/state The N.C. Cooperative Extension Service: (919) 515-2813, has office in all 100 counties www.ces.ncsu.edu FSIS Small Plant Help Desk by phone at (877) 374-7435 Farmers who have an agricultural emergency can call 1-866-645-9403, and find additional information at www.ncagr.gov/disaster USDA farm loan fact sheet, click here. USDA Disaster handout, click here. Hurricane Loss Worksheet, click here. HOUSING NEEDS Housing Assistance www.nchousing.org Rural Development Multi-Family Housing Programs: (919) 873-2050 Single Family Housing Programs: (919) 873-2051 TRANSPORTATION Call 5-1-1 or use the ReadyNC mobile app for the latest updates on road closures North Carolina Department of Transportation: www.ncdot.gov Department of Motor Vehicles: (919) 715-7000 UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISANCE FOR SURVIVORS Department of Labor: (866) 487 2365, TTY (877) 889-5627 North Carolina Division of Employment Security: (866) 487 2365, TTY (877) 889-5627, www.ncesc.com TEAR OUT, CLEANOUT, DEBRIS REMOVAL, MOLD REMEDIATION Baptist Men of North Carolina: (800) 395-5102 ext. 5605 www.baptistsonmission.org North Carolina Conference United Methodist Church www.nccumc.org, (888) 440-9167 LEGAL AID AVALIABLE FOR SURVIVORS The Legal Services Corporation has established a toll-free legal aid hotline for survivors of Hurricane Matthew in North Carolina. Survivors seeking legal assistance can call the toll-free helpline at 1-800-662-7407 or go to http://www.legalaidnc.org/get-help/Pages/hurricane-matthew/default.aspx for disaster-related information. The hotline is available weekdays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES www.ncvoad.org Locations of North Carolina DRC’s and SBA Recovery Centers SBA Business Recovery Centers Pitt County Small Business & Technology Development Center (SBTDC) Regional Service Center East Carolina University Willis Building 300 E. 1st Street Greenville, NC 27858 Days: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Closed: Sundays Saturdays, 9 a.m. - 1 p.m. Cumberland County Small Business & Technology Development Center at Fayetteville State University Small Business and Economics Building, Suite 306, Rooms A & D 1200 Murchison Road Fayetteville, North Carolina 28302 Days: Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. – 6 p.m. Saturdays Starting Oct. 22, 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. Closed: Sundays Robeson County Robeson Community College Workforce Center 5160 Fayetteville Rd. Lumberton, NC 28360 Days: Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. – 6 p.m. Saturdays Starting Oct. 22, 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. Closed: Sundays Disaster Recovery Centers Hours are Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. until further notice. Closed Sundays Harnett County DRC Harnett County Governmental Complex 309 West Cornelius Harnett Blvd. Lillington, NC 27546 Bertie County DRC Senior Citizens Center 103 W. School Drive Windsor, NC 27983 Edgecombe County DRC The Imperial Centre 270 Gay St. Rocky Mount, NC 27802 Lenoir County DRC NOVA Building 105 W. Caswell St. Kinston, NC 28501 Johnston County DRC Johnston County Industries 912 N Brightleaf Blvd. Smithfield, NC 27577 Hoke County DRC City of Raeford Civic Center 220 College Drive Raeford, NC 28376 Wayne County DRC W.A. Foster Recreation Center (Top of the hill at Mina Weil Park) 1012 S. John St., Room 110.2 Goldsboro, NC 27530 Tyrrell County DRC Tyrrell Hall 906 US Hwy 64 East Columbia, NC 27925 Edgecombe County DRC Riverside Plaza 1600 W. Howard Avenue Tarboro, NC 27886 Bladen County DRC Powell Melvin Agricultural Service Center 450 Smith Circle Elizabethtown, NC 28337 Greene County DRC 201 Carolina Drive Snow Hill, NC 28580 Sampson County DRC Sampson County Human Services 360 County Complex Road, Suite 200, Room 274 Clinton, NC 28328 Craven County DRC Old Family Dollar Store 281 NC Hwy 43 Vanceboro, NC 28586 Robeson County DRC Old Kmart store 2750 N. Roberts Ave. Lumberton, NC 28358 Cumberland County DRC Dept. of Social Services 1225 Ramsey Street Fayetteville, NC 28301 Dare County MDRC Hatteras Village Civic Center 56658 NC Hwy. 12 Hatteras, NC 27943 Pitt County DRC Pitt County Agricultural Center 403 Government Circle Greenville, NC 27834
10.28.2016	10.28.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on FBI’s Decision to Review Newly Uncovered Sec. Clinton Emails WASHINGTON — Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey’s letter to Sen. Burr, and other chairmen, on the FBI’s decision to investigate new and potentially classified emails that may be connected to the personal server of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: “I believe the American people deserve to have a full accounting of Secretary Clinton’s practices and a complete picture of her actions as Secretary of State. We should allow this to go through the complete processes, this time including all of the emails on Clinton’s server.”
10.27.2016	10.27.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Strikes Targeting Senior Al-Qaeda Leaders WASHINGTON — Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the follow statement on Department of Defense reports that precision strikes have targeted senior Al-Qaeda leaders, Faruq al-Qatani and Bilal al-Utabi, in Afghanistan: “I'm pleased by reports that the Department of Defense removed from the battlefield Faruq al-Qatani and Bilal al-Utabi, two of al-Qaeda's most senior leaders in Afghanistan?. If confirmed, the loss of these senior external operations plotters will degrade core al-Qaeda's ability to re-establish a safe haven in Afghanistan and remove a threat to U.S. personnel in Afghanistan and Americans around the world. I appreciate the Administration’s use of the intelligence and military resources needed to successfully locate, identify, and target these extremists in this strike.” ###
10.17.2016	10.17.16 Following Request from Burr and Tillis, IRS Grants Flexibility to Taxpayers Impacted by Hurricane Matthew WASHINGTON — The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) today granted additional flexibility to North Carolina taxpayers impacted by Hurricane Matthew after Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging him to extend the quarterly tax filing deadline for residents affected by the devastating storm. Hurricane Matthew victims in many North Carolina counties now have until March 15, 2017, to file certain individual and business tax returns. “This is welcome news for the North Carolina taxpayers who have been impacted by this devastating storm,” said Senator Burr. “I am so glad that the IRS upheld my request to give this relief to North Carolinians, so they can begin to rebuild without worrying about the impending tax deadline.” “Hurricane Matthew and the subsequent flooding have taken a tremendous toll on North Carolinians, leaving many without a livable home or place of business,” said Senator Tillis. “That’s why Senator Burr and I urged the IRS to extend the quarterly tax filing deadline, and I’m happy they have decided to grant this relief to North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Matthew.” The following North Carolina counties are eligible for this relief: Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Harnett, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Tyrrell, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis wrote: “As we have witnessed firsthand by visiting these areas, the disaster in North Carolina is still ongoing, making it very difficult to begin the recovery process or fully assess the damages inflicted on our state. Many taxpayers in these areas are facing a tax filing deadline this Monday, October 17, and the threat of onerous penalties if they do not meet it. The flooding and effects of Hurricane Matthew make the task of meeting the deadlines nearly impossible for them. We ask that you take immediate action to use the authority available in statute to provide relief to these taxpayers in North Carolina as soon as possible.” The full text of the letter can be viewed online here. For additional information from the IRS, click here.
10.17.2016	10.17.16 Intel Chairman Burr: Allegations of a Potential Quid Pro Quo by Clinton State Department Are Serious WASHINGTON — Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on allegations that senior State Department employees tried to renegotiate the labeling of classified information after it was transmitted over an unsecure email server: “We continue to debate this matter solely because Secretary Clinton and her team deliberately chose to set up a personal server on which to conduct official, and often classified, government business. Classified information was transmitted, as other government agencies have confirmed. State Department knew it, Patrick Kennedy knew it, and yet they continue to fight it. The allegations of a potential quid pro quo are serious. It is our understanding that these conversations are being reviewed further, as they should be.”
10.17.2016	10.17.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Urge Treasury Secretary Lew to Postpone Tax Filing Deadline for NC Residents Affected by Hurricane Matthew WASHINGTON — Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging him to extend the quarterly tax filing deadline for North Carolina residents affected by Hurricane Matthew. In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis write: “As we have witnessed firsthand by visiting these areas, the disaster in North Carolina is still ongoing, making it very difficult to begin the recovery process or fully assess the damages inflicted on our state. Many taxpayers in these areas are facing a tax filing deadline this Monday, October 17, and the threat of onerous penalties if they do not meet it. The flooding and effects of Hurricane Matthew make the task of meeting the deadlines nearly impossible for them. We ask that you take immediate action to use the authority available in statute to provide relief to these taxpayers in North Carolina as soon as possible.” The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. October 15, 2016 The Honorable Jack Lew Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Lew, As United States Senators from North Carolina, we write to you concerning tax filing deadline postponements for the thousands of North Carolina taxpayers affected by Hurricane Matthew. We appreciate the Department’s and the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) efforts so far to grant relief to certain counties. As you may know, our offices have been in contact with your Department regarding our belief that the law, specifically 26 U.S.C. 7508A, grants you the authority to postpone certain tax deadlines by reason of a Presidentially declared disaster. The statute provides that postponements can be granted to “a taxpayer determined by the Secretary to be affected by a federally declared disaster…” A “federally declared disaster” is defined by 26 U.S.C. 165(i)(5) as “any disaster subsequently determined by the President of the United States to warrant assistance by the Federal Government under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.” As of October 15, a total of 36 North Carolina counties have been declared a major disaster area by the President under the Stafford Act, with 23 of those counties being granted designations for both Individual and Public Assistance. As of now, the Treasury Department and the IRS have only granted filing extensions to those taxpayers in counties with Individual Assistant (IA) designations. We believe that both statute and regulation (26 CFR 301.7508A-1) provide you with the authority to issue extensions for all 36 counties in North Carolina that the President has declared as federal disaster areas, and any additional counties the President may declare in the future. As we have witnessed firsthand by visiting these areas, the disaster in North Carolina is still ongoing, making it very difficult to begin the recovery process or fully assess the damages inflicted on our state. Many taxpayers in these areas are facing a tax filing deadline this Monday, October 17, and the threat of onerous penalties if they do not meet it. The flooding and effects of Hurricane Matthew make the task of meeting the deadlines nearly impossible for them. We ask that you take immediate action to use the authority available in statute to provide relief to these taxpayers in North Carolina as soon as possible.
10.09.2016	10.09.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Urge FEMA to Grant North Carolina’s Request for Emergency Assistance Following Hurricane Matthew WASHINGTON — Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate in support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request for President Obama to declare an expedited Major Disaster for the state of North Carolina in the aftermath of hurricane Matthew. In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis write: “This disaster is still ongoing and has forced nearly 5,000 residents into shelters, necessitated over 1,000 swift water rescues, and left nearly 800,000 North Carolinians without power. We would like to thank you for FEMA’s efforts prior to and during this disaster, including the President’s October 7, 2016 Emergency Declaration for the state. We again respectfully ask that the President make the requested Major Disaster declaration, consistent with the intended purposes of FEMA and the federal Stafford Act. ” The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. October 9, 2016 The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, As United States Senators from North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request that the President declare an expedited Major Disaster for the State of North Carolina under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act for events occurring since October 4, 2016, and which are still occurring. The expedited Major Disaster Declaration is for both individual assistance and public assistance, including direct federal assistance for the following North Carolina counties: Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Caswell, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Davie, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Forsyth, Franklin, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Sampson, Scotland, Stokes, Surry, Tyrrell, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Wilson and Yadkin. We urge the President to approve this request as soon as possible to assist the state and these counties continued operations to protect life and property, and in the near future begin the recovery process. As the Governor noted in his request, due to the “unusual severity and magnitude” of the damage from Hurricane Matthew, the request meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R 206.36(d) for the expedited processing of the request. This disaster is still ongoing and has forced nearly 5,000 residents into shelters, necessitated over 1,000 swift water rescues, and left nearly 800,000 North Carolinians without power. We would like to thank you for FEMA’s efforts prior to and during this disaster, including the President’s October 7, 2016 Emergency Declaration for the state. We again respectfully ask that the President make the requested Major Disaster declaration, consistent with the intended purposes of FEMA and the federal Stafford Act.
10.05.2016	10.05.16 Burr & Tillis Respond to IG Reports on Salisbury VA Radiology Care and Wait Time Manipulation WASHINGTON — Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued statements in response to the release of Office of Inspector General (OIG) reports detailing radiology exam backlogs and wait time manipulation at the VA medical facility in Salisbury, North Carolina. This Inspector General report uncovered the following troubling findings about radiology care: A backlog of 3,300 radiology exams in 2014. Failure to effectively manage radiology workload and carry out timely exams. 15 patients died while waiting for exams. This Inspector General report makes the following findings about wait time manipulation: Schedulers began falsifying wait time reports in 2007. More than half the schedulers interviewed were routinely fixing patient appointments at the request of their supervisors. The Salisbury VA was engaged in the same fraudulent activity that the scandal at the Phoenix VA showed to be systemic across the entire VA. “It is unacceptable that North Carolina veterans are still waiting for medical care,” said Senator Burr. “No veteran should be left waiting for months to receive medical care, and under the Choice program, they do not have to. It’s clear that the VA was not effectively using the Choice program to help veterans receive radiological exams in an acceptable time frame and that wait time data was being falsified. I’m committed to doing whatever it takes to ensure that our veterans get the care they need. I will keep fighting for my legislation to improve the Veterans Choice program. America made a promise to our men and women in uniform, and I will keep that promise.” “The findings of today’s report are profoundly disturbing,” said Senator Tillis. “This is not the way the VA should be treating the men and women who risked everything in service to our country. My office has assisted many veterans in the Charlotte area who have had difficulty getting timely appointments at the Salisbury VA Medical Center, and the IG report confirms the worst of our suspicions. This conduct at the VA would not be tolerated in the private sector, and the perpetrators would be subject to both civil and criminal penalty. I will continue to work with Senator Burr to pursue legislation that will provide more accessible healthcare services to our brave veterans and will make it easier for the VA to fire bad actors who abuse their positions.” Earlier this year, Senator Richard Burr introduced the bipartisan Veterans Choice Improvement Act of 2016. This legislation makes the Veterans Choice Program, which was created in 2014 to allow veterans to get needed health care outside of the VA system, a permanent program with advance funding. It will also make needed changes and reforms to address the bureaucratic delays, hassles and confusion that veterans have continued to experience in attempting to get health care. Senator Burr also penned an op-ed for the Fayetteville Observer about fixing veterans’ healthcare.
10.05.2016	10.05.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Urge FEMA to Grant North Carolina’s Request for Emergency Assistance for Hurricane Matthew WASHINGTON — North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis today sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate urging the agency to grant the State of North Carolina’s request for federal emergency assistance before Hurricane Matthew begins to affect NC this weekend. In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis write: “Over the last month the state has faced a strain on its resources due to the Colonial Pipeline leak, protests in Charlotte, and flooding across central and northeastern North Carolina. Many communities are only now beginning to assess the damage and begin the recovery efforts associated with the recent flooding. Hurricane Matthew poses an imminent threat to the State of North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources…” Current forecasts predict that Hurricane Matthew will begin to affect the North Carolina coast on Saturday. North Carolina Emergency Management recommends that North Carolinians formulate a safety plan and prepare an emergency preparedness kit as soon as possible. The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. October 5, 2016 The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, As United States Senators from North Carolina, we support Governor Pat McCrory’s request for an Emergency Declaration under Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. On October 3, 2016, the State declared a state of emergency in 66 North Carolina counties including, Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden-Pasquotank, Carteret, Caswell, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Davie, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Forsyth, Franklin, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Sampson, Scotland, Stokes, Surry, Tyrrell, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Wilson and Yadkin. We urge you to approve this request as soon as possible to assist the state and these counties as they prepare for the approach of Hurricane Matthew as soon as possible. Over the last month the state has faced a strain on its resources due to the Colonial Pipeline leak, protests in Charlotte, and flooding across central and northeastern North Carolina. Many communities are only now beginning to assess the damage and begin the recovery efforts associated with the recent flooding. Hurricane Matthew poses an imminent threat to the State of North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources. We would also like to commend your agency for establishing an Incident Support Base at Ft. Bragg to pre-position federal resources ahead of the storm. An emergency declaration will provide the needed assistance to the State and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Matthew. We respectfully request that you make the requested declaration to enable North Carolina to prepare for the potential disaster, consistent with the intended purposes of Federal Emergency Management Agency and the federal Stafford Act.
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Funding For Low-Income Students Increases Across NC This Week Via Burr Legislation WASHINGTON — Legislation authored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) that increases K-12 education funding for schools serving low-income children will take effect this week, increasing federal funding to every school district in the state. Senator Burr’s amendment to the Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 will add $24 million in yearly Title II education funding for North Carolina, with low-income students seeing a significant increase of 47 percent in education funding. The nonpartisan Congressional Resource Service (CRS) notes that without the Burr legislation, funding in the state would have held steady. “This week, education funding to help children from low-income families takes effect. This means 500 additional teachers for the state of North Carolina – an average of five more teachers per county in our state,” said Senator Burr. “For too long, North Carolina’s schools and students were being shortchanged, while wealthier states received more than their fair share of federal dollars. I was proud to write legislation that is finally bringing fairness to federal education funding. Our children are the future of North Carolina, and they represent the best of us. I will continue to be an avid defender of North Carolina students in the Senate.” Background: Last December, the Senate passed, and the president signed into law, the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), a bipartisan education bill that fixed No Child Left Behind, ended Common Core, and restored control of K-12 education back to those closest to the children: parents, teachers, principals and local school boards. Thanks to ESSA, North Carolina's hardworking classroom teachers will no longer be judged by a distant bureaucrat in Washington, D.C. Senator Burr fought to include a provision in ESSA that fixed an inequity in federal education funding that shortchanged North Carolina’s teachers, schools, and students for 15 years. The Burr funding formula fix will bring an additional $24 million for underprivileged children in North Carolina. School districts will begin receiving the additional funding this week. Senator Burr’s legislation makes sure that federal education funding that is meant to go to schools that serve low-income families actually goes to those schools. Since 2000, the number of low-income families in North Carolina has grown by 18 percent, compared to 7.6 percent nationally. Despite these demographic shifts, Title II education funding -- money that was meant to help needier schools in North Carolina -- has been funneled to wealthier schools in Pennsylvania and New York. Senator Burr’s legislation corrected this gross inequality. This week, more education dollars will begin coming to North Carolina, which will mean more teachers in North Carolina helping our students get a great education. The non-partisan Congressional Research Service has released an independent study outlining the positive impact of the amendment on each county in North Carolina. That report can be viewed here.
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Senator Burr Statement on This Year’s Bipartisan Senate Accomplishments WASHINGTON — Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) highlighted a few of his many 2016 bipartisan Senate accomplishments to date, which included legislation such as the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016, the successful implementation of additional education funding for children from low-income families in North Carolina, and Senate Intelligence hearing findings from directors of major intelligence agencies. “After working for North Carolinians in the United States Senate this year, I’m glad to be back in North Carolina talking with families across our state about the issues that matter most,” said Senator Burr. “This year I’ve held four open Senate Intelligence Committee hearings, and helped pass legislation to fight the opioid crisis, to improve veteran’s dental health care, and to investigate cold case civil rights murders.” Senator Burr continued, “Passing good policy is definitely important, but so is making sure that the legislation is implemented properly. This year the Senate has overseen implementation of the Child Care Development Block Grant, implementation of legislation to lower student loan interest rates, and implementation of the Every Student Succeeds Act, which delivered control of K-12 education back to the states, and increased funding for more teachers for North Carolina.” On Wednesday, the Senate passed a continuing resolution that will fund the government through December 9, provide $1.1 billion to fight the Zika virus, an additional $37 million to combat opioid addiction, $297 million for critical projects at North Carolina military bases, $74.4 billion to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs and the VA hospital system, and a Burr provision that prevents President Obama from handing over the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base to Cuba. National Security Hearings Senate Select Committee on Intelligence — This year, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Burr held four open Committee oversight hearings including testimony from Directors from the Central Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Defense Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency. In one hearing, CIA Director Brennan noted that the Islamic State remains “as dangerous as ever” and that “our efforts have not reduced the group's terrorism capability and global reach.” Additionally, Chairman Burr stewarded the Intelligence Authorization for Fiscal Year 2017 through the Committee with Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). Legislation Passed by the Senate Combatting the Opioid Addiction Epidemic — Signed by the President in July, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), sponsored by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Rob Portman (R-OH) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), provides health professionals and law enforcement with the tools and resources they need to help families and communities struggling with opioid addiction. Read Senator Burr’s op-ed about CARA in the Wilmington Star Journal. Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016 — This legislation, sponsored by Senator Burr and co-sponsored by Senators Claire McCaskill, (D-MO), Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Roy Blunt (R-MO), was passed by the Senate in July. It reauthorizes the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Act so that the FBI and the Department of Justice can continue to investigate unsolved civil rights-era murders. The Till family and cold case researcher Alvin Sykes were instrumental in passing this bill in the Senate. Veterans Dental Benefits —Introduced by Senator Burr and Senator Jon Tester (D-MT), the VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2016 was signed into law, and continues the current veteran dental insurance program that was established by legislation authored by Senator Burr in 2010. It expands eligibility for the program to all veterans who do not currently receive dental benefits from the VA. Zika Funding — As part of the Continuing Resolution, the Senate funded $1.1 billion to fight the Zika virus. Senator Burr is a leader on pandemic preparedness, having authored the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, a law Sen. Burr authored with Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.). This legislation makes sure that we have the ability to respond quickly and efficiently to public health emergencies like Zika. He also introduced a bill to help local communities address Zika with Senators Angus King (I-Maine) and Bill Nelson (D-Fla.). Land and Water Conservation – Senator Burr is the leading champion in the Senate for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), and in April, the Senate passed legislation making this conservation fund permanent. Established in 1964, the LWCF is one of America’s most successful federal conservation programs, conserving irreplaceable lands and improving outdoor recreation opportunities throughout the nation. Senator Burr has penned op-eds on his efforts to save LWCF in the Charlotte Observer and Greensboro News and Record. Protecting Corolla’s Wild Horses – In April 2016, the Senate passed Senator Burr’s Corolla Wild Horse Protection Act. This legislation will take actions to ensure the genetic diversity and viability of the dwindling herd of Corolla horses so that these animals are not lost forever. Successful Implementation of Legislation Ensuring Safe, Affordable Child Care for Working Families — In 2014, Sen. Burr led the charge with Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) to pass the bipartisan Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. This law provides assistance to low-income working families so that they can afford safe child care. The law also requires child care providers to undergo criminal background checks. In June, Senator Burr led an oversight hearing on the implementation of the background check requirement. Witness Margaret Williams testified that enhanced background checks for child care workers helped identify and remove 80 registered sex offenders from child care facilities. Lower Student Loan Rates — In July, student loan interest rates dropped for the third year in a row to 3.76 percent, down from a high, government-set rate of 6.8 percent in 2012. This decrease will save North Carolina families more than a billion dollars in this year alone. In 2013, Senator Burr and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) led the effort to pass the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013. This law allows students and their families to take advantage of today’s low interest rate environment and is directly responsible for today’s low student loan rate. $24 Million for North Carolina Schools and Students — In 2015, Senator Burr fought to include a provision in the Every Student Succeeds Act that fixed an inequity in federal education funding that was shortchanging not only North Carolina’s teachers and schools, but also the low-income students they serve. This critical change to the law championed by Senator Burr will bring an additional $24 million for under privileged children in North Carolina. School districts will begin receiving the additional funding this October.
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Burr Statement on Passing of Larry Stogner WASHINGTON — Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the death of former news anchor Larry Stogner: “Larry Stogner was beloved by all who knew him through his television career with ABC 11 and later in life as an advocate for people suffering from ALS. His legacy will live on through the researchers and activists who have dedicated their lives to finding a cure for ALS. Larry Stogner was the ultimate professional and I’m proud to call him my friend.”
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Burr & Tillis Respond To IG Report On Fayetteville VA Medical Center Surgical Services WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued statements in response to the release of an Office of Inspector General (OIG) report detailing healthcare inspections of the surgical services at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. The OIG report substantiated that: Some VA patients were not properly evaluated prior to surgery, causing surgical delays and cancellations. Prior to September 2014, patient deaths that occurred within 30 days of surgery were not reviewed as required, and peer reviews were not conducted as required by Veterans Health Administration and facility policy. A gynecological procedure was stopped after surgery had begun because of a lack of instruments. The patient subsequently underwent the surgical procedure at a non-VA hospital. The OIG also made a series of recommendations for the Fayetteville VA to correct longstanding issues, including implementing procedures to ensure patients are adequately evaluated by medicine and anesthesia providers prior to surgery, ensuring that peer reviews are conducted as required when criteria are met, and establishing procedures to ensure functioning surgical supplies, equipment, and instruments are available. In response to the OIG report, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statements: "I have reviewed the report of the VA Inspector General regarding the surgical services at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. While changes in senior staff have led to an improvement in some patient services, it is still disturbing to me that the Inspector General had to remind the Fayetteville VA that it must ensure patients are adequately evaluated by medicine and anesthesia providers prior to surgery, and that necessary surgical tools are available for the surgery,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Taking care of those who bore the battle is the most solemn duty of the United States government and it is troubling that any hospital has to be reminded to have adequate pre-operative evaluations and sufficient equipment on hand to perform surgeries. It should not take an outside agency to remind any caregiver of those basic medical practices.” “Today’s report confirms the sad news that many of our veterans are still receiving inadequate care at VA facilities. Some patient deaths that occurred within 30 days of surgery at the Fayetteville VA facility were not reported or reviewed as required. Some veterans were not fully evaluated prior to surgery causing preventable delays and cancelations. Another procedure was stopped after surgery had begun because of a lack of instruments. That surgery was later completed at a community hospital,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Veterans must have greater access to quality health care where they live, when they need it. Today’s report affirms once again that many VA facilities still fall woefully short. This is unacceptable. Our nation’s veterans expect and deserve better than this—that’s why I introduced the Veterans Choice Improvement Act and why I’m going to keep fighting to enact it. We have a duty to support and protect our veterans, and I’m going to continue to do everything I can to ensure that our veterans are being taken care of.”
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Senator Burr Commemorates Down Syndrome Awareness Month WASHINGTON — United States Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today commemorated the upcoming beginning of Down Syndrome Awareness Month in October: “There are still too many barriers in our society that prevent Americans with Down Syndrome from realizing the full potential of their God-given gifts. Down Syndrome Awareness Month is a good time to remember that we must keep fighting to tear those walls down,” said Senator Burr. “I am proud to have sponsored the landmark ABLE Act with Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) which helps families with a disabled child to save for their child’s lifelong expenses without losing eligibility for critical benefits they need, such as medical care. This legislation has been called one of the most significant laws helping people with disabilities since the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act in 1990. In a time of stark division, the bipartisan ABLE Act is a hopeful reminder of what is possible in Washington when the cause is right. I’m looking forward to continuing to fight for the most vulnerable in our society.” Click here to view Senator Burr’s remarks commemorating National Down Syndrome Awareness Month. The National Down Syndrome Society has designated October as Down Syndrome Awareness Month to celebrate the accomplishments of individuals with Down syndrome, and their vital contributions to our society. According to NDSS, “It’s not about celebrating disabilities; it’s about celebrating abilities.” Senator Burr is continuing to work with a bipartisan group in Congress that includes Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) and Representatives Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) on legislation that builds on the promise of the original ABLE Act, further expanding options for those with disabilities.
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Burr Statement on Continuing Resolution Passage WASHINGTON — Today, the Senate passed a continuing resolution (CR) that will fund the government through December 9, provide $1.1 billion to fight the Zika virus, an additional $37 million to combat opioid addiction, $297 million for critical projects at North Carolina military bases, $74.4 billion to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs and the VA hospital system, and a Burr provision that prevents President Obama from handing over the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base to Cuba. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the passage of the CR: “I’m encouraged that we were able to reach an agreement to fund the government and to provide necessary resources to combat the Zika virus and opioid addiction. Supporting the members of the military and their families is critically important to me and I’m pleased that today’s legislation would address sorely needed projects in North Carolina as well as fund programs for our veterans. The agreement also includes a national security bill I sponsored that stops the President from giving the Guantanamo Bay Naval base to the Castro regime. I’m excited to get back to North Carolina and listen to families across the state about the issues that matter most.”
09.27.2016	09.27.16 Burr, Tillis, Carper Bill To Protect Benefits For Eugenics Victims Heads To President Obama’s Desk WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tom Carper (D-DE), Richard Burr (R-NC), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Tim Kaine (D-VA) applauded the House’s passage of S. 1698, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. The bipartisan legislation is authored by Senators Tillis and Carper and co-sponsored by Senators Burr, Warner, Kaine, and Feinstein. The legislation unanimously passed the Senate last year and will now head to President Obama’s desk to be signed into law. The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act will help protect living eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal safety net programs such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and SSI-Disabled. Without this legislation, eugenics victims who receive compensation payments could see their federal benefits reduced or even have their eligibility eliminated. State-run eugenics and compulsory sterilization laws victimized more than 60,000 Americans in 33 states from the 1920s to the 1970s. State governments often targeted specific groups for sterilization, including unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families. Victims were often sterilized without their consent or knowledge. In 2013, North Carolina became the first state in the nation to pass legislation to create a state fund to compensate the living victims of the state-run forced sterilization program. In 2014, more than 200 North Carolina victims were awarded their first compensation payment of approximately $20,000 each. Recently, victims began receiving their second eugenics compensation payments, worth an additional $15,000. Last year, Virginia became the second state to pass legislation compensating the victims of a state-run eugenics program. Virginia will award $25,000 to each individual who was involuntarily sterilized and is still alive as of February 1, 2015. “Passage of this legislation caps off a long quest for justice for the victims of North Carolina’s shameful eugenics and sterilization program. When we established the compensation program for victims in North Carolina, we certainly didn’t intend to jeopardize their access to critical federal safety net programs through a legal technicality. They have suffered long enough, and I commend my colleagues in the House and Senate who have stood with these brave survivors to pass this legislation and bring relief,” said Senator Tillis. “I also hope this legislation will help raise the American public’s awareness of a dark and shameful chapter in our nation’s history. I would like to offer a much-deserved thank you to my friend and former colleague, North Carolina state Rep. Larry Womble, who has provided extraordinary leadership in the decades-long fight for justice for the living victims of North Carolina’s eugenics program. It has been an honor to join in this fight for justice.” “People who’ve been subjected to horrifying sterilization practices as a result of misguided eugenics programs have already had to live with unfathomable loss and hardship,” said Senator Tom Carper. “These individuals shouldn’t be penalized for compensation funds that they have received for their suffering, especially because it can never repair the pain they’ve had to endure. I’m proud that Congress came together across party lines to approve this important effort to ensure that no person loses important federal benefits because they received this type of compensation.” “The government robbed these individuals. We can never restore the families that were irreparably damaged, but we can ensure that eugenics victims who are eligible for compensation do not also have to endure their benefits being cut,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Eugenics was a dark chapter in our history. I encourage President Obama to sign this important legislation.” “This was one of the darkest, most shameful periods in Virginia’s history,” said Senator Mark Warner. “We should be doing everything in our power to ensure that the victims of this injustice have unimpeded access to the federal assistance to which they are entitled. I look forward to seeing the President sign this important piece of legislation into law.”
09.26.2016	09.26.16 Senators Urge Inclusion of Permanent Conservation Fund Reauthorization in Final Energy Bill WASHINGTON — Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) led a group of eight Senators calling on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to keep the full, permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) in the final legislation that emerges from the Energy bill conference. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Steve Daines (R-MT), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Susan Collins (R-ME) and Rob Portman (R-OH) joined Sen. Burr (R-NC) in the letter dated Friday. From the letter: “LWCF was created in the spirit of reinvesting the revenues from the sale of our national resources into future resources for all Americans – asset for asset… Like many of the 85 members who voted in support of S. 2012 on the floor, we consider LWCF a top policy priority in the context of the Energy bill and believe maintaining this provision is crucial to advancing a conference report through the Senate. “LWCF has had incredible bipartisan success over its near half-century of existence, touching all 50 states and nearly every county in America. It is a continuing investment in the economic driver that our federal, state, and local public lands represent. The parks, trails, forests, wildlife refuges, battlefields, historic sites, and working lands sustained by LWCF funding support an outdoor recreation and tourism sector that contributes a total of $646 billion annually to the American economy, supporting 6.1 million jobs (1 out of every 15 jobs in the U.S.). “This well-envisioned toolbox is critical for all Americans as it fosters successful partnerships with states, localities, private organizations and landowners to meet unique and pressing conservation, recreation, and historic preservation needs across the country.” Background: Earlier this year, a full permanent reauthorization for the LWCF passed the Senate as part of the Energy Policy Modernization Act. Senator Burr had previously led the charge to bring awareness to the importance of LWCF and to ensure that this fund is renewed. This Senate-passed legislation is now set to be conferenced with the House-passed legislation before being sent to the President. Senator Burr has been recognized for his leadership in bringing awareness to the critical importance of the LWCF and to ensuring that this fund is renewed. Established in 1964, the LWCF is one of America’s most successful federal conservation programs, conserving irreplaceable lands and improving outdoor recreation opportunities throughout the nation. It requires no taxpayer funding. Senator Burr has penned op-eds in the Charlotte Observer and Greensboro News and Record on the need to protect North Carolina’s natural treasures. The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. September 23, 2016 The Honorable Lisa Murkowski, Chairman Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 304 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Murkowski: As strong supporters of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), we are writing to thank you for your leadership in crafting S. 2012 the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016, and to urge you to ensure that Section 5002 of the bill is included in any final legislation that emerges from the Energy bill conference. As you know, LWCF was created in the spirit of reinvesting the revenues from the sale of our national resources into future resources for all Americans – asset for asset. The Committee recognized the fundamental soundness of this approach – and the compelling need for continued conservation investments in all our states – when it adopted the LWCF language, Section 5002, and rejected weakening amendments. Like many of the 85 members who voted in support of S. 2012 on the floor, we consider LWCF a top policy priority in the context of the Energy bill and believe maintaining this provision is crucial to advancing a conference report through the Senate. LWCF has had incredible bipartisan success over its near half-century of existence, touching all 50 states and nearly every county in America. It is a continuing investment in the economic driver that our federal, state, and local public lands represent. The parks, trails, forests, wildlife refuges, battlefields, historic sites, and working lands sustained by LWCF funding support an outdoor recreation and tourism sector that contributes a total of $646 billion annually to the American economy, supporting 6.1 million jobs (1 out of every 15 jobs in the U.S.). This well-envisioned toolbox is critical for all Americans as it fosters successful partnerships with states, localities, private organizations and landowners to meet unique and pressing conservation, recreation, and historic preservation needs across the country. LWCF has increased access for hunters and anglers on public lands, and has protected fish and game habitat for sportsmen. It preserves historical treasures from Civil War battlefields to our most recent history, such as the United Flight 93 Memorial in Pennsylvania. It helps to ensure that our ranchers and forest owners can keep working the land, and that our local communities can have parks and outdoor recreation sites. We deeply appreciate the ways in which Section 5002 of the bill will sustain these benefits by permanently reauthorizing LWCF; refining the program’s focus on prioritization, cost efficiency, and accountability; and ensuring that this highly successful program continues to meet communities’ conservation needs while helping to protect and maintain our shared heritage. We also enthusiastically support the 1.5 percent sportsmen’s access provision which is critical to increase public access to public lands, as changing land use and ownership patterns create challenges to historic and much-needed access for hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreation. The importance of these provisions is reflected in their bipartisan passage, not once but twice, by the Committee, and by the full Senate’s decisive rejection of a proposed amendment to alter these provisions on the floor, by a wide bipartisan margin, before approving the bill by an overwhelming vote of 85 to 12. We appreciate your leadership as conference discussions continue, and we want to reaffirm our support for retaining the LWCF provision in any final Energy conference agreement. Please accept our thanks for your efforts to date, and please let us know how we can help you advance this priority program so it can continue to meet the needs of communities across America. Sincerely, Richard Burr Cory Gardner Lamar Alexander Steve Daines Lindsey Graham Kelly A. Ayotte Susan M. Collins Rob Portman cc: The Honorable Maria Cantwell, Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and Natural Resources The Honorable Fred Upton, Chairman, Energy and Commerce Committee The Honorable Frank Pallone, Ranking Member, Energy and Commerce Committee The Honorable Rob Bishop, Chairman, Natural Resources Committee The Honorable Raúl Grijalva, Ranking Member, Natural Resources Committee
09.25.2016	09.25.16 Op-ed: Obamacare is imploding Obamacare is imploding. With each passing day, we see more evidence that the program that promised Americans affordable health care is on the verge of total collapse. The failures of Obamacare are well documented in the media. Insurance premiums are skyrocketing for both families and employers, insurers are withdrawing from the exchanges, and consumers are seeing their health care options rapidly disappear. Under Obamacare, families are paying much more and getting way less. Based on the proposed rate increases submitted to the North Carolina Department of Insurance for approval, North Carolinians could experience an increase of 19 to 25 percent in the cost of their health insurance coverage for 2017. It remains to be seen how much more premiums will skyrocket once the final rates are announced this fall. These rate increases are unacceptable to the people of North Carolina. The Obamacare bureaucracy is driving up the cost of health insurance, and North Carolinians are being told they have to pick up the tab. To make matters worse, the Kaiser Family Foundation predicts that for next year, 90 percent of North Carolina counties will have only one choice of insurer. Enrollment for an Obamacare policy for 2017 begins on Nov. 1, and when North Carolinians log on to the Obamacare exchange this fall to shop for a plan, they will likely find only one choice of insurer and a steep price tag. This is not how health care is supposed to work. But sadly, this is what economists predicted about Obamacare seven years ago. These predictions have now come true. Americans were promised that Obamacare would lower their premiums and that they could keep their current plan if they liked it, but that’s not what Americans got. Prices are escalating, and plan choices are evaporating. No matter the political affiliation of our next president, he or she will have to work with Congress to address this collapse. I have offered a solution called the Patient CARE Act that would take steps to make quality, affordable health care accessible to every American through commonsense, patient-focused reforms. I believe this plan could serve as a basis for working together to roll back Obamacare’s bureaucracy and red tape and give Americans greater freedom and more choices to select the plan that best fits their pocketbooks and health needs. Some have suggested a “public option,” which is government-run health care, as the solution to Obamacare’s collapse. But we must remember that it is Obamacare’s government-imposed mandates, bureaucracy and red tape that is driving up the cost of health insurance and limiting Americans’ choice of plans. Doubling down on government failure with even more government control will only make this situation far worse for individuals and families, not better. Americans are understandably fed up with the finger pointing. It’s time for solutions, and these solutions must allow greater choice at a lower cost for families, protect individuals with pre-existing conditions, protect Medicare for current seniors and future generations, and promote greater medical innovation to find cures and save lives. Obamacare is on a collision course for collapse. Americans cannot afford to wait any longer for a solution. We need to work together to expand access to quality and affordable health care by empowering individuals — not Washington bureaucrats — to make their own health care decisions. Sen. Richard Burr, a Republican from Winston-Salem, is a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee. This op-ed was published by the North State Journal.
09.22.2016	09.22.16 Burr, Tillis, Butterfield, Jones Introduce Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation to Improve Eastern North Carolina Transportation WASHINGTON — Last night, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Representatives G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Walter Jones (R-NC), introduced the Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 – legislation to improve Eastern North Carolina’s highway system by designating portions of US Highway 264 as an interstate highway and by creating north-south interstate access for a new Eastern North Carolina Gateway Corridor generally along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11. “The strength of North Carolina’s highway infrastructure is critical to moving our economy forward. Interstate highway connectivity is essential for connecting citizens and communities, moving goods to market, and supporting and creating jobs,” said Senator Burr. “Greenville is such an important part of Eastern North Carolina, and I’m hopeful that this legislation will help this area expand on its reputation as one of Eastern North Carolina’s major economic centers.” “This legislation is a direct result of bipartisan coordination among members of the North Carolina delegation to modernize and improve North Carolina’s infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “Designating US Highway 264 as an interstate and creating interstate access along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11 would be bring a much needed improvement to the transportation corridor serving Greenville and the surrounding area, and would support Eastern North Carolina’s efforts to increase economic development and accessibility.” “The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act will enable the Greenville metropolitan area- which is home to more than 170,000 people- to continue its emergence as a leading economic, educational, and cultural hub,” said Congressman Butterfield. “It will help spur long-term economic development, trade, and tourism in Greenville and surrounding areas, including the future Woodard Parkway Industrial Park in Wilson. This legislation is a complement to my previously enacted ROAD Act and Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act and builds on my vision to better connect eastern North Carolina with Raleigh, the Port at Morehead City, and the Hampton Roads region of Virginia.” “The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act will support the long-term growth of our area by connecting Eastern North Carolina’s businesses to other key centers of commerce throughout our state and region,” said Congressman Jones. “The third district has long been known for innovation across a wide range of industries. It’s crucial that we continue to support this growth by ensuring Eastern North Carolinians have access to high-quality infrastructure.” Background: Greenville is the 10th largest city in North Carolina, and the largest city in North Carolina without an interstate highway. The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 will obtain an interstate designation from the U.S. 264/64 split in Zebulon to Greenville, and create north-south interstate access with a new Eastern North Carolina Gateway Corridor generally along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11. This designation will improve transportation connectivity and economic development in Eastern North Carolina. The legislation is H.R. 6105 in the House and S. 3378 in the Senate; the text can be viewed online here.
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Senate Advances Small Business Retirement Legislation Sponsored by Senators Burr and Bennet WASHINGTON — Today, the Senate Finance Committee passed bipartisan legislation sponsored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) to make it easier for small businesses to set up retirement programs for employees. The Small Business Employee Retirement Savings Act increases the retirement plan start up tax credit to $5,000, incentivizes auto enrollment, and removes restrictions to increase employee participation in retirement plans. This bill was included as a part of the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act, passed today by the Finance Committee. “Passing this bipartisan legislation out of committee is good step towards helping more small businesses offer retirement plan benefits to their employees,” said Senator Burr. “I’m proud to work with Senator Bennet on this issue, and I’m hoping my colleagues pass this legislation as soon as possible so we can give small business employers better tools to empower employees when it comes to saving for retirement.” “This bipartisan bill is an important first step toward helping more Coloradans save for retirement,” Senator Bennet said. “With new tax incentives and less red tape, small business owners will be able to set up retirement plans and increase employee participation. Senator Burr and I will continue to push for its passage by the full Senate.” The Small Business Employee Retirement Savings Act includes three key provisions that make is easier for employees of small businesses to prepare for retirement: Increasing the Size of the Start Up Credit – Currently, small businesses (with less than 100 employees) receive a tax credit totaling 50% of the costs of establishing a new retirement plan or $500—whichever is less. The credit can be taken for three years and can be used to offset the costs for starting up a new 401(k) plan, a SIMPLE retirement plan, or a simplified employee pension (SEP). The bill would increase the credit from $500 to $5,000. Creating a Credit for New Plans that Offer Auto Enrollment – The bill creates a new $500 per year tax credit (for up to three years) for small businesses that offer new retirement plans that include auto enrollment. It would also apply to businesses that add auto enrollment to an existing retirement plan. Eliminating the 10% Auto Enrollment Limit – Currently, an employer can auto enroll an employee in a qualified plan and over time, can escalate the employee contribution to 10% of their wages. This bill would eliminate the 10% limit, allowing employees to make larger contributions to retirement savings. Today, the Senate Finance Committee also advanced the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act, legislation co-sponsored by Senator Burr to assist fire departments recruit and retain volunteer firefighters and emergency medical responders.
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Senate Advances Bipartisan Legislation Sponsored by Senators Burr and Casey to Enhance the ABLE Act WASHINGTON — The Senate Finance Committee today advanced the ABLE to Work Act and the ABLE Financial Planning Act – two bills sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) aimed at enhancing ABLE accounts. The ABLE to Work Act builds on the success of the ABLE Act by making it possible for people with disabilities who work to save an additional amount in an ABLE account without risking loss of benefits. The ABLE Financial Planning Act will allow financial rollovers from 529 college savings plans to ABLE accounts. “I am excited this legislation to strengthen the ABLE Act has advanced out of committee and can soon be considered by the full Senate,” said Senator Burr. “The ABLE to Work Act is about promoting employment and independence for people with disabilities. It will allow people with disabilities to save more money if they have a job and earn an income, and it will also make them eligible for the Saver’s credit. I’m also pleased to see the Committee advance the ABLE Financial Planning Act, which will allow families with a special needs child to have more control over their financial futures. I’m urging my colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation as soon as possible.” “Advancing these pieces of legislation moves us one step closer to building on the foundation of the ABLE Act,” Senator Casey said. “Fundamentally, these efforts are about breaking down barriers for those with disabilities so they have a fair shot to achieve their dreams.” Background: The ABLE to Work Act expands on the goals of the ABLE Act by encouraging work and self-sufficiency. The legislation allows individuals and their families to save more money in an ABLE account if the beneficiary works and earns income. Specifically, an ABLE beneficiary who earns income from a job could save up to the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently at $11,770. The bill will also allow ABLE beneficiaries to qualify for the existing Saver's Credit when they put savings in. Text of the ABLE to Work Act is available here. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would allow families to rollover savings in a 529 college savings plan into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before their child is even born, only to learn later that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child could incur a disability from a tragic accident. In such instances, these families have funds trapped in a 529 that they could use to help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If they withdraw the funds for anything other than college expenses, they face taxes on their withdrawals. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would help these families by allowing them to rollover the funds in their 529 account into an ABLE account for their child. Text of the ABLE Financial Planning Act is available here. In 2014, the bipartisan group of lawmakers led the effort to pass the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which lets families who have a child with a disability save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts. The ABLE Act was a significant step forward and has been heralded as one of the most important pieces of disability legislation since the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Read Senator Burr’s op-ed on the ABLE Act here.
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Introduce Legislation to Bring New Veterans’ Medical Facility to Raleigh, North Carolina WASHINGTON — Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC) and lawmakers from both parties introduced bipartisan legislation to bring a new Department of Veterans Affairs medical facility to Raleigh, North Carolina in addition to new facilities in other parts of the country. The Providing Veterans Overdue Care Act includes funding for a new VA outpatient facility for Raleigh, North Carolina, which would be the 29th VA medical facility in North Carolina, and the 20th delivered during Senator Burr’s tenure in the United States Senate. “One of the great honors of serving as your Senator is fighting to support and protect our veterans,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I am glad that Senator Warner has introduced this bipartisan legislation which will secure the 29th VA medical facility for our state, and the 20th of my tenure in the Senate. I’m urging the full Senate to pass this legislation without delay so that veterans can have greater access to quality, affordable health care where they live.” “I am proud to co-introduce this bipartisan legislation that would authorize leases for 24 VA medical facilities, including an outpatient clinic in Raleigh,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “This legislation is a step toward reducing the unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles at the VA, I will continue to work across the aisle to ensure veterans are receiving access to the healthcare they need and deserve.” The full text of the amendment introduced today can be found here. The legislation is led by Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) and cosponsored by Sens. Michael Bennet (D-CO), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Susan Collins (R-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Gary Peters (D-MI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). Background: During his tenure in the Senate, Senator Burr has fought successfully to get the Department of Veterans Affairs to place modern health care centers and clinics in the communities where veterans live. For many years, the VA relied on a few centrally located medical centers, forcing many veterans to drive long distances to get needed care from the VA. But Senator Burr has worked to bring new medical facilities to communities all across North Carolina so that veterans could have better access to the health care they were promised. There are now 28 VA medical facilities located throughout North Carolina. This legislation would secure the 29th for North Carolina. A full list of VA medical facilities delivered to North Carolina, during Senator Burr’s tenure can be found here.
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Sen. Burr Statement on Events in Charlotte WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on last night’s series of events in Charlotte, NC: “The investigation continues to develop on the series of events in Charlotte last night. The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department needs the space to conduct their investigation. I think we can all agree there is no place in America for violence in our streets. We can and will come together to overcome these events.”
09.19.2016	09.19.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Terror Attacks: “Tremendous Amount of Pre-planning” Required WASHINGTON – This evening, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) joined Fox News Special Report with Bret Baier to discuss the recent terror attacks in the United States. Chairman Burr called the multiple acts terrorism and highlighted that “Whether it was inspired, whether it was directed, I can tell you this, that the pressure cookers look like they were matched out of ‘Inspire’ magazine, which was an Al Qaeda publication.” Additionally, Chairman Burr noted that White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest’s comment this morning that the US is in a “war of narratives” shows “how out of touch this administration is.” WATCH Sen. Burr on Special Report with Bret Baier here BAIER: Let's talk about what we know about New York, New Jersey attacks and this guy, Rahami. Do you believe he was working alone? BURR: Complex attack. Multiple devices. Multiple locations. A tremendous amount of pre-plan pre-planning had to go into it. In all likelihood, could you park, could you pull a duffel bag down 23rd and 27th, probably unlikely. Right now the evidence leads towards one individual. We're 48 hours into it. We have somebody in custody. That's phenomenal. We have devices that are intact. Let the forensics happen. If there are more individuals, we will find evidence that leads us that way. There's a tremendous amount of media for the FBI to go through. … BAIER: What about this lone wolf versus organized or inspired? We paint with these different words. It is all terrorism. BURR: It is terrorism. America was attacked multiple times. We were attacked in Minnesota, New Jersey and New York. Whether it was inspired, whether it was directed, I can tell you this, that the pressure cookers look like they were matched out of "Inspire" magazine, which was an Al Qaeda publication. I'm not sure about the pipe bombs, whether there is some unique nature to them. This has been influenced by terrorists around the world through that media. … BAIER: The white house press secretary saying that actually we are just in a war of narratives against ISIS. Your reaction to that. BURR: That [Calling the attack a war of narratives] it shows you how out of touch this administration is with the terrorism that we see in New York, in New Jersey, in Minneapolis. More importantly, the threat list that I look at every morning as the chairman of the intelligence committee where I look at more threats globally around the world than anybody could ever imagine. WATCH the full clip here.
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Burr and Bennet Introduce Small Business Employee Retirement Savings Act WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced bipartisan legislation to make it easier for small businesses to set up retirement programs for employees. The Small Business Employee Retirement Savings Act increases the retirement plan start up tax credit to $5,000, incentivizes auto enrollment, and removes restrictions to increase employee participation in retirement plans. “I am proud to join Senator Bennet in introducing this bipartisan legislation to help more small businesses offer retirement plan benefits to their employees,” said Senator Burr. “This legislation gives small business employers better tools to empower employees when it comes to saving for retirement.” “More than 990,000 Coloradans work for a small business, yet small business owners often find it difficult to offer retirement plans to their employees,” Senator Bennet said. “Our bill improves the tax incentives for small businesses to establish retirement plans and provides new incentives to help increase employee participation. This bipartisan proposal represents an important first step we can take to make it easier for Coloradans to save for retirement.” The Small Business Employee Retirement Savings Act includes three key provisions that make is easier for employees of small businesses to prepare for retirement: Increasing the Size of the Start Up Credit – Currently, small businesses (with less than 100 employees) receive a tax credit totaling 50% of the costs of establishing a new retirement plan or $500—whichever is less. The credit can be taken for three years and can be used to offset the costs for starting up a new 401(k) plan, a SIMPLE retirement plan, or a simplified employee pension (SEP). The bill would increase the credit from $500 to $5,000. Creating a Credit for New Plans that Offer Auto Enrollment – The bill creates a new $500 per year tax credit (for up to three years) for small businesses that offer new retirement plans that include auto enrollment. It would also apply to businesses that add auto enrollment to an existing retirement plan. Eliminating the 10% Auto Enrollment Limit – Currently, an employer can auto enroll an employee in a qualified plan and over time, can escalate the employee contribution to 10% of their wages. This bill would eliminate the 10% limit, allowing employees to make larger contributions to retirement saving A recent study by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) regarding the challenges facing small businesses that wish to start a retirement plan found that “....smaller or newer firms may be unwilling or unable to sponsor plans because they lack sufficient financial resources, time, and personnel. For instance, smaller employers noted that startup and ongoing costs involved with maintaining a plan, costs associated with reporting and testing requirements, administrative fees paid to an outside party, and any employer requirements to match employee contributions were barriers to plan sponsorship. Small employers also expressed the need to reach a certain level of profitability before they would consider sponsoring a plan and that general economic uncertainty makes them reluctant to commit to such long-term expenses.” The President’s 2017 budget proposal states that “[n]umerous employers, especially those with smaller or lower wage work forces, have been reluctant to adopt a retirement plan for their employees, in part out of concern about their ability to afford the cost of making employer contributions or the per capita cost of complying with tax qualification and ERISA (Employee Retirement Income Security Act) requirements.” The Small Business Employee Retirement Savings Act will expand access to employer-sponsored retirement plans by breaking down barriers that make it difficult for small business to provide this benefit to their employees. The text of the legislation is available online here.
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Burr Legislation to Protect Lake Fontana Houseboats Passes the Senate WASHINGTON — The United States Senate today passed Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) legislation to prevent the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) from banning houseboats on Lake Fontana and Hiwasee Lake. TVA’s original proposed ban on houseboats would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners in Western North Carolina. “I’m pleased that the full Senate has passed this legislation, which will hopefully bring some relief to North Carolinians in Swain and Graham Counties who are worried about losing their homes because of the TVA’s proposed ban,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Many of these families have been living on the lake for decades, and no one should have to worry about losing their home because of intrusive government policies. I will continue working with Congressman Meadows to get this critical legislation passed in the House of Representatives as soon as possible.” The Senate attached Senator Burr’s amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, a water infrastructure bill that was passed by the Senate today by a vote of 95 – 3. The Water Resources Development Act of 2016 also contains an emergency aid package for Flint, Michigan and other communities grappling with lead-contaminated water. In August, Senator Burr wrote a letter to the Tennessee Valley Authority urging the agency to reconsider this proposal which would effectively ban houseboats in some parts of Western North Carolina. The full signed letter is available online here.
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Senate Intel Committee Chairman Burr Statement on Reports More Gitmo Detainees Return to Battlefield WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on a report via Reuters that two more freed Guantanamo inmates have rejoined terrorist militant groups: “The President keeps putting his legacy before national security. By releasing Gitmo detainees back into the fight, we continue to stack the deck against our own security interests. Nothing is more important than keeping our country safe. Continuing to empty out the prison at Gitmo so that these fighters can return to committing acts of terror against the US and our allies is a terrible mistake.” Sen. Burr introduced a bill to prevent Cuba from taking over the Guantanamo Bay naval base this past February.
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Burr/Tillis Amendment to Protect Lake Fontana Houseboats Included in Infrastructure BillBurr/Tillis Amendment to Protect Lake Fontana Houseboats Included in Infrastructure Bill WASHINGTON – Last night, the Senate voted to advance an amendment introduced by North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis that prevents the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) from banning houseboats on Lake Fontana and Hiwasee Lake. TVA’s proposed ban on houseboats would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners in North Carolina. “This is an important step forward,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Many of these folks have been living on the water for decades. I want to thank Congressman Mark Meadows for his work on this issue as well. I’m proud that we have been able to work together to make sure that the families living in houseboats on Lake Fontana don’t lose their homes. I’m going to keep fighting until we’ve protected these families.” “I am pleased the Senate was able to advance this important amendment to protect hundreds of houseboat owners on Fontana Lake,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue to work with Senator Burr and Congressman Meadows to stop this gross overreach by the federal government and allow these families on Fontana Lake to keep their homes.” The Senate attached the amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 infrastructure bill last night. The Senate is expected to vote on final passage of the bill this week. The text of the amendment is available online here. In August, Senator Burr wrote a letter to the Tennessee Valley Authority urging the agency to reconsider this proposal which would effectively ban houseboats in some parts of Western North Carolina. The full signed letter is available online here.
09.09.2016	09.09.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Commend OMB on Swiftly Completing Review of Camp Lejeune Contaminated Water Rule WASHINGTON — North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis today released the following statements on the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) review of the Camp Lejeune contaminated water rule, completed just three weeks after they sent a letter to Director Shaun Donovan urging the agency to grant disability benefits to poisoned Lejeune veterans: “Many North Carolina veterans have lost their ability to work and their ability to support themselves financially because of the disabilities caused by toxic exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). “I am glad that OMB has quickly reviewed mine and Senator Tillis’ request to grant disability status to veterans suffering from diseases caused by poisoned water at Camp Lejeune – which include Parkinson’s Disease, Bladder Cancer and Leukemia. Now that the Department of Veterans Affairs has published the proposed rule, I’m looking forward to a substantive public feedback period. I’ll continue the fight to protect all of our veterans in the United States Senate.” “The victims of Camp Lejeune’s water contamination disaster have waited far too long for justice, and prior OMB delays have been inexplicable,” said Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC). “It’s a relief to see movement, and now we begin the process of providing meaningful feedback to the VA about the details of the proposed program. I hope that the comment period will be substantive but swift and geared toward keeping faith with the veterans who have served our country so honorably.” In the original letter to OMB, the senators wrote: “The current process the VA has in place for evaluating disability claims from Camp Lejeune veterans is insufficient and mired in bureaucracy. This is leading to many disabled veterans, some terminally ill, being continually denied disability compensation from the VA despite exhaustive scientific research showing a clear causal connection between their medical conditions and the exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. The bureaucratic mistreatment of these veterans is unacceptable, and it cannot be allowed to continue.” The full signed letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan is available online here. The Department of Veterans affairs has published the final rule in the federal register here.
09.08.2016	09.08.16 60 Plus Association Honors Senator Burr With Guardian of Seniors’ Rights Award WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) received the Guardian of Seniors’ Rights Award from the 60 Plus Association. Senator Burr receives award from the 60 Plus Association “I’m honored to receive this award from the 60 Plus Association,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I’m committed to finding bipartisan solutions that strengthen and protect Social Security and Medicare. America made a promise to seniors and I will keep that promise. Seniors have worked hard their whole lives and deserve peace of mind that their retirement is safe and secure.” In an award ceremony in the Nation’s Capital, 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin said, "We seniors felt we should show our gratitude to dedicated lawmakers like Senator Burr who show compassion towards the elderly by pledging to 1) always protect Medicare, 2) always protect Social Security, and 3) just as importantly, to vote against wasteful spending of our tax dollars, excessive spending that has our government now borrowing over 40 cents of every dollar it needs to pay its bills. Seniors have to balance their budgets and so should our government.” Last month, Senator Burr received the Champion for the 50 Plus Award from the North Carolina chapter of the AARP.
09.08.2016	09.08.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Introduce Legislation to Stop Tennessee Valley Authority’s Proposed Houseboat Ban WASHINGTON — North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis today introduced legislation to stop the Tennessee Valley Authority’s (TVA) proposed ban on houseboats, which would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners on Fontana Lake in North Carolina. “TVA’s proposed removal of houseboat owners from their homes would be devastating for many hardworking North Carolina families in Swain and Graham Counties,” said Senator Burr (R-NC). “This amendment would stop this ill-conceived TVA proposal dead in its tracks and ensure that houseboat owners are able to stay in their homes. I’m urging the Senate to pass my amendment immediately to protect these vulnerable home owners.” “The TVA’s proposed ban on houseboats is yet another example of federal government overreach that harms local communities in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis (R-NC). “I look forward to working with Senator Burr to support this amendment and find a resolution for houseboat owners on Fontana Lake.” The legislation was filed today as an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2016. The text of the amendment is available online here. In August, Senator Burr wrote a letter to the Tennessee Valley Authority urging the agency to reconsider this proposal which would effectively ban houseboats in some parts of Western North Carolina. The full signed letter is available online here.
09.07.2016	09.07.16 Senate Indian Affairs Committee Considers Burr Bill to Recognize Lumbee Tribe, Tribe Chairman Godwin Testifies WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs considered a bill introduced by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to federally recognize the Lumbee Tribe. Lumbee Tribe Chairman Harvey Godwin testified. “Decades of discrimination against the Lumbee have resulted in severe economic and societal consequences for their people,” said Senator Burr. "Robeson County is one of the ten poorest counties in the United States. The 1956 law has put them on unequal footing compared to other federally recognized tribes, and it has prevented them from obtaining access to critical services through the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service. This is simply unjust and immoral.” WATCH: Burr delivers opening remarks on Lumbee recognition “The Lumbee people are seeking a new type of partnership with the federal government,” said Chairman Godwin. “We will use full federal recognition to create an atmosphere for economic development in rural southeastern North Carolina. Your support of this bill is a strategic investment in the Lumbee people and our neighbors. “ WATCH: Lumbee Chairman Harvey Godwin Jr. testifies North Carolina formally recognized the Lumbee Tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe, but it included a terribly unfair caveat - the Lumbees were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. The 1956 Lumbee Act actually prohibits the tribe from going through the Bureau of Indian Affairs process for full recognition. As the law now stands, the Lumbee Tribe can only be recognized by an act of Congress. Senator Burr’s Lumbee Recognition Act would provide the Lumbees with the equal recognition they deserve. The text of the Lumbee recognition bill is available online here. Senator Burr’s prepared remarks are available here.
09.07.2016	09.07.16 Op-ed: How The Senate Is Working To Address Human Trafficking At Home and Abroad In recent years, North Carolina has experienced a devastating wave of crime in the form of human trafficking. Just this past year, an eastern North Carolina man was convicted of transporting multiple women across state lines to force them into prostitution, after coercing them with threats of violence. This case is not an isolated incident. Sadly, North Carolina is among the top 10 states for reported cases of human trafficking, with 656 reported cases since 2007. Experts have cited our prominent interstate highways and our location along the East Coast as the primary reasons for why North Carolina has found itself trapped in the midst of these illicit networks. This horrific form of modern-day slavery will not be tolerated, and I’ve been dedicated to joining my efforts with those of North Carolina’s law enforcement officers, nonprofits, international NGOs, attorneys, advocates, and dedicated citizens to end this scourge. Families should not have to worry about whether their loved ones could fall prey to human traffickers. The National Human Trafficking Resources Center (NHTRC) defines human trafficking as “a form of modern-day slavery in which traffickers use force, fraud, or coercion to control victims for the purpose of engaging in commercial sex acts or labor services against his/her will.” Today, human trafficking is one of the preeminent human rights issues of our time, with victims spanning all ethnicities, genders, ages and income-levels in the United States. During this Congress, I have supported legislation like the Justice for Victims of Human Trafficking Act of 2015. This law will curb sex trafficking crimes and help North Carolina’s trafficking survivors recover by strengthening federal laws combatting trafficking, strengthening the tools available for law enforcement to stop traffickers, and creating a fund financed by fines from traffickers to support victim recovery programs. We have made great strides this Congress towards making sure that survivors of human trafficking get the justice and aid that they deserve. Unfortunately, human trafficking is a crime that is hurting people – especially women and girls – not just in North Carolina, but all over the world. To combat trafficking globally, I joined Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) to introduce the Child Protection Compact Act, which allows the United States to establish “Child Protection Compacts” with countries that have significant levels of child trafficking. These compacts will help foreign governments develop national strategies to combat and prevent child sex trafficking and forced labor. The Child Protection Compact Act was supported by organizations such as World Vision and International Justice Mission and was signed into law as part of the Violence Against Women Act of 2013. We also need to be sure our programs that support these anti-trafficking efforts are fully funded. That’s why I have annually joined with a bipartisan group of Senators to advocate for funding for the programs aimed at ending human trafficking and helping victims both internationally and here at home. Edmund Burke famously declared that “all that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.” In the case of human trafficking, there are many good women and men actively working to eradicate this heinous crime and help victims, and I will continue to work tirelessly with them to pass measures that will bring justice to victims and stop this evil at home and abroad. This op-ed was published by the Independent Journal Review.
09.06.2016	09.06.16 Giving our children a better future By Senator Richard Burr September 6, 2016 As North Carolina's children return to school, it's a good time to remember the importance of making sure our public school students get a quality education. Our children are the future of North Carolina, and they represent the best of us. I am proud to be an avid defender of North Carolina students in the Senate. Last December, the Senate passed, and the president signed into law, the bipartisan Every Student Succeeds Act - legislation to fix No Child Left Behind and restore control of K-12 education back to those closest to our children: parents, teachers, principals and local school boards. The Senate's education committee, of which I'm a member, worked tirelessly on drafting this law, which affirms that the best way to achieve higher standards and better learning is through classrooms and communities, not Washington, D.C. This law also ended the controversial Common Core mandate. As a result of this momentous shift of K-12 control back to local communities, North Carolina's hardworking classroom teachers will no longer be judged from a distant department in Washington, D.C., on whether they are qualified to teach, or whether their students are succeeding or failing based on a once-yearly math and reading test. As a part of my commitment to defending North Carolina students, I was proud to offer an amendment to fix a long-standing inequality in education funding that has shortchanged North Carolina's teachers, schools and low-income students for over 15 years. My amendment makes sure that federal education funding meant for schools that serve kids from low-income families actually goes to those very schools. Since 2000, the number of low-income families in North Carolina has grown by 18 percent, compared to 7.6 percent nationally. Yet despite these demographic shifts, money that was meant to help these needier schools in North Carolina has actually been funneled to wealthier schools in Pennsylvania and New York. North Carolina families were being shortchanged. I'm proud to say that my amendment, which became law in 2015, fixes this gross inequality. This means that with more education dollars coming to North Carolina, we will have more teachers in North Carolina helping our students get a great education. In fact, my amendment has added $24 million in yearly education funding for North Carolina. Low-income students in North Carolina stand to see a significant increase of 47 percent in education funding. We are now directing that funding into the communities that need it the most. The bottom line: My amendment means 500 additional teachers for the state of North Carolina - an average of five more teachers per county in our state. We have made great strides this Congress to deliver control of K-12 education back to local communities, while making sure limited federal education funding is going to the communities that need it the most. But making sure that our children are getting the best education possible is going to be an ongoing fight for North Carolina families in Washington. I'm pledging to continue fighting for North Carolina's schools, teachers and students, because a brighter future for North Carolina students means a brighter future for North Carolina. Sen. Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican, is a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee. This op-ed was published by the Fayetteville Observer.
09.06.2016	09.06.16 Burr Statement on Zika Funding Filibuster, Ft. Bragg Zika Infections WASHINGTON – Today, Democratic leadership in the Senate voted to filibuster $1.1 billion in funding to fight the Zika virus. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the filibuster: “This is the third time Democratic leadership has put politics before people and blocked $1.1 billion in funding to fight the Zika virus. We had the opportunity to pass this funding months ago. There are no winners in this political game; there are only losers. The women, children, and now members of our military who are at risk of the devastating effects of this disease deserve action.” Today, the Army announced that five Fort Bragg based service members were infected with the Zika virus while travelling outside the United States. These are just the latest travel-associated cases of Zika infection in North Carolina. Last week, Senator Burr penned an op-ed in The Hill calling on Congress to take action on Zika. Today’s filibuster also further endangers funding for veterans and military construction in North Carolina.
09.02.2016	09.02.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Former Secretary of State Clinton’s Email Use WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the most recent in a long series of revelations about former Secretary Hillary Clinton’s management of classified information via her personal email server: “These notes confirm, publicly, what we have known for some time: the emails contained classified information, and those sending the emails knew they contained classified information--they just refuse to take any responsibility for it, and instead blame others in the State Department. The excuses never end, and no one is ever held responsible. Classified information should be handled with utmost care because the lives of those tasked with keeping America safe are at risk.”
08.30.2016	08.30.16 Chairman Burr Statement on Reported Death of Islamic State Spokesman, Mass Graves Near Sinjar WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the reported death of Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, official spokesman of the self-proclaimed Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL): “ISIL continues to ruthlessly kill innocent civilians across the world and is intent on attacking us at home,” said Chairman Burr. “If the reports are accurate, the death of Adnani would remove a significant and influential senior operational planner and likely disrupt some of the group’s attack plotting. “Today, we also learned from the Associated Press that ISIL may have buried thousands of people in over seventy mass graves after brutally murdering them in front of their families. As CIA Director John Brennan testified before my committee in June, ISIL remains as dangerous as ever. We cannot waiver in our continued efforts to disrupt and dismantle those terrorist groups who seek to do us harm.”
08.30.2016	08.30.16 Zika is a public health emergency; we need to work together to confront this head on By Richard Burr August 30, 2016 Americans are deeply concerned about the Zika virus. Now that mosquitos in the continental United States are actively spreading the virus, we are going to see more cases of Zika infection unless we quickly take action to combat this virus and the mosquitos that spread it. Based on what we know about the virus so far, pregnant women and their babies are at the greatest risk from the devastating impacts of Zika. Even a baby who is exposed to the virus while in utero, but who is not born with birth defects, may still be impacted by developmental problems later in life. The unique threat Zika poses requires us to act. Nothing is more important than the health of our children, and now is the time for Congressional Democrats to work with Republicans to confront the Zika virus head on. Combatting Zika is a battle that must be waged on many fronts. To reduce the risk that this virus poses to pregnant women and their babies, we need to abate and control the population of infected mosquitoes, facilitate the discovery and development of new Zika medicines, and support families who have been affected. By a bipartisan vote, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill in June to dedicate $1.1 billion additional dollars to Zika aid. Unfortunately, this bill remains stalled in the Senate because some say $1.1 billion is not enough. Here are the facts. The dollars in the Zika aid bill would support vaccine development, mosquito control, and support services in areas that have been hard hit by this virus. And, on top of a surge in funding to fight Zika, this bill would increase funding for the National Institutes of Health so that we are better prepared to combat emerging infectious diseases. The Zika aid bill – had it been passed by the Senate and signed by the President over two months ago – would now be helping protect babies from this virus’ heartbreaking complications. The urgency to act could not be greater. The Obama administration has declared the Zika virus to be a public health emergency in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. This declaration allows the federal government to use public health emergency response tools that I fought in Congress to strengthen. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, a law I authored with Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), makes sure that we have the ability to respond quickly and efficiently to public health emergencies like Zika. I have also introduced the Strengthening Mosquito Abatement for Safety and Health, or SMASH, Act in the Senate with Sens. Angus King (I-Maine) and Bill Nelson (D-Fla.). The bipartisan SMASH Act would protect North Carolinians by assisting states and localities with their mosquito surveillance and control programs. As we are learning with the Zika virus, mosquitos can pose very serious health threats by spreading disease, and we must be prepared to combat these threats at their source. Americans are rightfully fed up with Washington, which unlike families and their household budgets, has little accountability for the dollars it spends. Passing the Zika aid bill now is imperative; but more funding isn’t everything. We cannot let up. We must make sure that promising Zika medicines become a reality and that we continue to innovate so that we are ready for the next curve ball Mother Nature throws at us. Dr. Francis Collins, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, has said that a vaccine for the Zika virus could be available by as early as 2018. Congress should remove barriers to innovation at the National Institutes of Health to help make this prediction a reality. Growing government is not going to solve this problem, but smarter government can be an ally to the researchers, scientists and innovators who are on the front lines every day, searching for cures. It would be a shame for the brokenness of Washington to make an already tragic situation with Zika worse. North Carolinians are counting on Congress to prove that we can tackle tough problems by working together, keep our children and families safe, and act responsibly with the finite resources we have. You can count on me to continue working to do so. This op-ed was published by The Hill.
08.30.2016	08.30.16 Sen. Burr offers update on opioid fight August 30, 2016 By Senator Richard Burr There’s an ongoing public health crisis with prescription painkillers in North Carolina that is devastating thousands of families every year -- the opioid abuse epidemic. It’s a heartbreaking trend that cannot be fixed from Washington, but it can be addressed with the help of effective policies passed by Congress. For a good start, the Republican-led U.S. Senate recently passed and President Obama signed into law a bipartisan bill to assist doctors, EMTs and families confronting this crisis. I voted for the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) -- which had the support of over 230 groups that battle drug addiction -- because it will strengthen prevention efforts for those who are at risk, treatment efforts for individuals suffering from addiction, and ongoing recovery efforts. Specifically, it will help ensure paramedics have access to drugs that prevent fatal overdoses and will help prevent “doctor shopping” by addicted individuals trying to get access to prescription opioids. North Carolinians who are fighting every day on the front lines of the opioid epidemic need more tools to work with. Congress passed this legislation to give the medical community and law enforcement a larger toolbox. This law couldn’t come soon enough, especially for North Carolina. A study published earlier this year found four North Carolina cities among the top 20 for prescription opioid abuse – Wilmington was No. 1 among all U.S. cities. The study, which looked at opioid abuse among Americans with certain employer-sponsored health insurance, found Hickory, Jacksonville and Fayetteville also in the top 20 nationwide. The new law provides grants to states to support prevention, treatment, recovery and education efforts. CARA also provides grants to states to expand access to overdose medicine. The bill will help those suffering from opioid addiction get well and stay well. And just as important -- Congress has doubled funding to combat this epidemic, empowering medical professionals, law enforcement, and the individuals and families fighting on the frontlines of this public health crisis. Perhaps most important of all, the bill underscores that drug addiction is treatable, and that we can and must do more to help the thousands of individuals and families hurting from this epidemic. I was proud to support this law – heralded by The New York Times as “the most sweeping drug- abuse legislation in years” – to help North Carolinians who struggle with addiction. However, while this bill is a significant step forward, our work is not yet done. North Carolinians are heartbroken from news reports about how opioid abuse is tearing up communities and families. Each year, nearly 1,000 North Carolinians die from opioid abuse. According to the N.C. Department of Health and Human Services, drug overdose deaths have increased by 320 percent since 1999. Opioid painkillers are now involved in more drug deaths than cocaine and heroin combined. Now that the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act has been signed into law, Congress can continue helping North Carolina fight the opioid epidemic by making sure that the federal government is advancing the research and development of new, abuse-deterrent drugs and treatments, not hindering these innovations. Dr. Francis Collins, head of the National Institutes of Health, testified in Congress that in 10 years he expects that researchers will develop a non-addictive painkiller. For years, I have led the annual bipartisan effort to ensure robust funding for the National Institutes of Health because of the important work they are doing to better understand and combat drug abuse, as well as so many other diseases and disorders. And as a member of the Senate’s health committee, I have been working on the 21st Century Cures bill, which will help ensure that the NIH is prepared to meet these kinds of ambitious, but absolutely necessary, goals. While CARA takes steps toward helping more North Carolinians escape drug addiction so that they can achieve their full potential, the battle continues. North Carolinians are counting on Congress to be a partner in responsibly dealing with this epidemic, and I look forward to continuing to fight for them in Washington. Richard Burr is U.S. Senator from North Carolina. You can reach his office at burr.senate.gov This op-ed was published by the Wilmington Star-News.
08.26.2016	08.26.16 Senator Burr, Till Family, and Alvin Sykes Release Statements on Anniversary of the Tragic Emmett Till Murder WASHINGTON — United States Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), the Till family, and civil rights activist Alvin Sykes commemorated the 61st anniversary of the murder of Emmett Till, a 14-year old boy who was brutally murdered after whistling at a white woman at a store in Mississippi on August 28th, 1955. The woman’s husband and brother-in-law were indicted for the murder and tried in Mississippi. After a 67-minute deliberation, both men were acquitted. However, both men would later confess to the murder in a 1956 interview. In 2004, the Department of Justice announced that it was reopening the Till case for further investigation. Following the reopening of the Till case, activists and cold case researchers like Alvin Sykes have pushed the Justice Department to re-examine many of the unsolved murders of the Civil Rights Era. “Our country has come a long way in the 61 years since the senseless and tragic murder of young Emmett Till in Mississippi, but there is still so much work left to be done,” said Senator Burr. “There are still too many families like the Till family, who experienced tragic loss at the hands of racial violence, but who were denied justice because their cases were left cold. I am proud that the Senate has passed my bill to ensure that other cold case murders are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law in order to help bring some closure to still grieving families. I’m now urging the House of Representatives to pass this legislation without delay when Congress returns. I can think of no better way to honor Emmett Till’s legacy and to reaffirm to future generations that every single American is worthy of the law’s protection.” "Mamie Till Mobley would be humbly proud that her son's memory is continued so honorably. My family shares a membership within a community that lives with memories that never turn cold and our legacies of pain have no sunset. That's why I am extremely pleased that two of the major provisions of the Till Bill 2 will eliminate the 10 year sunset provision for the existence of the original law and lift the 1969 time limit on cases under consideration and extend it indefinitely into the future,” said Airickca Gordon-Taylor, cousin of Emmett Till. “I urge the House of Representatives under Rep. John Lewis and Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner's leadership to pass the Till Bill 2 with all deliberate speed and forward it to President Barack Obama for his signature in September. What a beautiful way to remember Emmett Till today." Ms. Gordon-Taylor can be reached on Twitter via @EmmettTillTalks for further questions or comments. “We call on all justice seeking Americans to now strongly urge their congressmen to join the current 60 House co-sponsors of Till Bill 2 as soon as the House reconvenes in September,” said Alvin Sykes, President of the Emmett Till Justice Campaign and the architect of the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act 2016. “With the passage of this historically important bill 61 years after the murder of Emmett Till. We as a nation would continue to observe the poison coming out of Till’s murder in 1955 continuing to be transformed into the medicine of justice for countless victims of racially motivated murders indefinitely into the future.” Sykes is the Kansas City based human rights worker who successfully led both the effort to reopen the Emmett Till case for reinvestigation in 2004 as well as the campaign to pass into law the original Emmett Till Act in 2007. Watch Senator Burr’s floor speech on the introduction of the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act in April 2016 here. The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act was introduced in the Senate by Senator Richard Burr and co-sponsored by Senators Claire McCaskill, (D-MO), Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Roy Blunt (R-MO). The House version of the bill is sponsored by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). This legislation is supported by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), NAACP-Legal Defense Fund (LDF), National Urban League, Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), Emmett Till Justice Campaign, Mamie Till Mobley Memorial Foundation, Leadership Conference on Civil Rights (LCCR), Emory University Civil Rights Cold Case Project, Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, and the Cold Case Justice Initiative. BACKGROUND Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and few attempts to prosecute them were ever pursued. Tuskegee Institute once kept a record of verified lynchings in the United States from 1877 to 1950. The institute documented that nearly 4000 mainly unprosecuted civil rights crimes occurred during that period. Many American families continue to pass down stories of loss and disappearance even today without knowing the truth about what actually happened to their loved ones. PRIMARY GOALS OF THE BILL The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act represents a critical opportunity to right these wrongs committed, primarily against African Americans, but also against people of diverse backgrounds. In some cases, individuals still remain who were witnesses to these crimes or who can help provide evidence regarding these incidents. This bill reauthorizes and updates the original legislation that was signed into law in 2008. It seeks to respond to the concerns of victims' family members and strengthen collaboration between the Justice Department, the FBI, State and local law enforcement, and advocates to pursue these cold cases. There is a collective goal to seek the truth about this long-standing tragedies and hold the perpetrators and orchestrators of these atrocities accountable. This reauthorization also seeks to respond to the concerns of advocates regarding the implementation of the original legislation. MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION This bill calls on the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with civil rights experts, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence in these cold cases; Provides clearer direction and improved coordination among federal, state, and local law enforcement and the families of victims, advocates, and academics working on these issues; Strengthens the Department of Justice’s reporting requirements; Eliminates the pre-1969 time limitation on investigations; Eliminates the sunset provision in the original bill; Asks the Department of Justice to review specific closed cases that warrant further investigation; Maintains the previous funding levels; Establishes the process to reopen, review, and update the public on the cases previously closed and explain the outcome of cases referred to the Department of the Justice; and Clarifies the law’s intent. A one-pager on the bill is available here.
08.24.2016	08.24.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Afghanistan American University Attack WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the attack on American University in Kabul, Afghanistan: “This tragic attack on a symbol of hope and progress is yet another reminder of the increasingly perilous security situation in Afghanistan.”
08.18.2016	08.18.16 Senate Intel Committee Chairman Burr Statement on State Dept. Admission that $400 Million Payment to Iran was Tied to Hostage Release WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the State Department’s admission that the timing of the release of U.S. hostages in Iran was tied to a $400 million cash delivery: “Today, the Administration finally admitted what we all knew to be true, that the State Department 'timed' the release of $400 million to Iran to coincide with the release of American prisoners. This Administration continues to endanger Americans at home and abroad by releasing known terrorists, conducting dangerous prisoner exchanges, and enabling the nefarious activities of a designated state sponsor of terrorism. Decisions like these are putting our nation and our allies at risk."
08.18.2016	08.18.16 Burr & Tillis Urge Veterans Administration, Budget Office to Automatically Grant Disability Benefits to Poisoned Lejeune Veterans WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) wrote a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donavan urging the Department of Veterans Affairs to grant presumptive disability status to veterans suffering from diseases caused by poisoned water at Camp Lejeune, including Parkinson’s Disease, Bladder Cancer and Leukemia, among others. “While affected veterans are receiving health care, many have lost their homes and their ability to work and financially support themselves because of the disabilities caused by the illnesses they developed from toxic exposure,” the Senators wrote. “Many more are teetering on the brink of losing their homes and bankruptcy. This is not just a North Carolina problem; this is a national problem." The signed letter is available online here and the text of the letter is included below: August 18, 2016 The Honorable Shaun Donovan Director Office of Management and Budget 1725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Donovan: We write to you with concerns about the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) proposed rule that addresses diseases associated with exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune, NC (RIN: 2900-AP66). This proposed rule is currently pending review with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and we are concerned about further delays in approving this rule. Please understand that further delay in approving this rule will cause significant harm to the well-being of thousands of disabled veterans. From 1953 to 1987, nearly one million servicemembers and their family members were poisoned by contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune, NC. In 2012, Congress passed, and the President signed into law, H.R. 1627, the Honoring America’s Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-154). This law provides health care for Camp Lejeune veterans and their families who are suffering from a variety of medical conditions associated with exposure to the contaminated water. However, the law did not address disability compensation and presumptions of service-connected disabilities because VA had to address those issues internally and through the federal rule making process. With the submission of RIN: 2900-AP66, the VA is proposing to amend its adjudication regulations relating to presumptive service connection for certain diseases associated with contaminants present in the base water supply at Camp Lejeune and finally provide some financial relief to these veterans. We ask that OMB approve this rule immediately and allow it to proceed to the public comment period. While affected veterans are receiving health care, many have lost their homes and their ability to work and financially support themselves because of the disabilities caused by the illnesses they developed from toxic exposure. Many more are teetering on the brink of losing their homes and bankruptcy. This is not just a North Carolina problem; this is a national problem. One Camp Lejeune veteran said it well when he said, “It’s great they are getting health care, too bad they are living in their Buick.” The current process the VA has in place for evaluating disability claims from Camp Lejeune veterans is insufficient and mired in bureaucracy. This is leading to many disabled veterans, some terminally ill, being continually denied disability compensation from the VA despite exhaustive scientific research showing a clear causal connection between their medical conditions and the exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. The bureaucratic mistreatment of these veterans is unacceptable, and it cannot be allowed to continue. We are not of the opinion that scientific research on this issue is lacking or should give OMB pause in approving this rule. To the contrary, the research that has been conducted on the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is exhaustive. The recent Public Health Assessment conducted by ATSDR shows clear causal connection between the contaminated water and the nine conditions that are under consideration in this rule for presumption of service connection. Again, we urge OMB to immediately approve this proposed rule and allow it to proceed to the public comment period. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Richard Burr Thom Tillis United States Senator United States Senator cc: The Honorable Robert McDonald, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
08.16.2016	08.16.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on the Release of 15 Prisoners from Guantanamo Bay: Unconscionable WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the Obama administration’s decision to release 15 terrorists back into the Middle East: “It is unconscionable that this administration continues to release known terrorists. Several terrorists released by the Obama administration have returned to the battlefield and re-engaged in attacks against coalition forces and our allies. The administration continues to put our national security at risk in misguided attempts to fulfill campaign pledges and to cement the President’s legacy.”
08.15.2016	08.15.16 Burr Pushes Back on Tennessee Valley Authority’s Proposed Houseboat Ban WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) wrote a letter to Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) CEO William Johnson urging the agency to reconsider a proposal that would ban houseboats in some parts of North Carolina. The proposed rule, which would remove all houseboats from TVA reservoirs, would affect nearly 400 houseboats on Fontana Lake. “Fontana Lake helps support small businesses, tourism, and the surrounding communities,” Senator Burr wrote. “Many of these houseboats have been passed down through generations and are integral to the culture in Western North Carolina. The removal of these homes would be a financial burden to the homeowners and an economic loss for Swain and Graham County.” The signed letter is available online and the full text is included below: August 15, 2016 Mr. William D. Johnson CEO, Tennessee Valley Authority 400 West Summit Hill Drive Knoxville, TN 37902 President Johnson: As you know, the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) recently voted to make significant changes to their Floating Houses Policy, by calling for the removal of all houseboats located in TVA reservoirs over the next 30 years. This new rule not only requires the homeowners to bear the cost of removing their homes, but it also fails to address the loss in property value that homeowners will experience as a result of the proposed rule. This is a serious matter of utmost concern for the houseboat owners of Fontana and Hiwassee Lakes in North Carolina. Most impacted in my state is Fontana Lake, which is home to almost 400 houseboats, and is a component of TVA’s overall reservoir system. The local communities that make up Fontana Lake have been proactive and forward thinking in their efforts to improve water quality and safety. Both Swain and Graham County, in cooperation with the houseboat owners, passed ordinances intended to limit the potential environmental impact of the homes so as to safeguard public health, along with a monitoring mechanism to ensure compliance. Many of these houseboat owners made extensive investments to meet these standards and continue to practice proper resource and water management along Fontana Lake today. Their good stewardship should be recognized, not penalized through additional fees and unreasonable regulations. Fontana Lake helps support small businesses, tourism, and the surrounding communities. Many of these houseboats have been passed down through generations and are integral to the culture in Western North Carolina. The removal of these homes would be a financial burden to the homeowners and an economic loss for Swain and Graham County. I ask that you reconsider your proposal to remove all houseboats from these lakes and take into consideration the interests and comments you receive during the public review period. Additionally, I ask that you consider the economic effects the proposed rule will have on each of TVA’s reservoirs and the unique benefits of each individual reservoir. These communities have a large group of stakeholders who are all invested and dedicated to the protection and preservation of the natural landscape they have enjoyed for decades. Sincerely Richard Burr U.S. Senator
08.12.2016	08.12.16 Burr: Administration Should Use Tools We Created to Protect Pregnant Women and Infants from Zika WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on Health and Humans Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell’s declaration that the Zika outbreak in Puerto Rico is a public health emergency: “I take seriously Secretary Burwell’s declaration today that Zika represents a public health emergency in Puerto Rico. When I wrote the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, it strengthened our ability to respond to serious public health threats, like Zika, because we must be prepared to protect Americans from the full range of threats, whether naturally-occurring or the result of a bioterrorist attack. This law gives the Secretary critical tools to combat emerging public health threats, including Zika, and I hope the Administration will fully leverage the tools it has at its disposal to protect pregnant women and their babies from this serious virus.”
08.12.2016	08.12.16 Burr Supports ECU Effort to Join Big 12 Conference WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in support of East Carolina University’s desire to join the Big 12 conference: “East Carolina University has earned the distinction of being a high-quality academic and intercollegiate athletic institution not only in our state, but nationally. I’m proud to add my name to those supporting ECU’s desire to join the Big 12, and urge the conference to give full and fair consideration to their inclusion in the conference. Go Pirates!”
08.09.2016	08.09.16 Senator Burr Receives AARP Champion for the 50 Plus Award WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), received the Champion for the 50 Plus Legislative Award from the North Carolina chapter of the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP). “It’s an honor to receive this award from the AARP,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Seniors have worked hard their entire lives, and they deserve to live their golden years in dignity and independence. I’m proud to fight for the services and resources that make this possible. And I will continue to work in a bipartisan way to strengthen and protect Social Security and Medicare so that seniors can have peace of mind that their retirement is safe and secure.” “The work Senator Burr has done to help restore crucial services to seniors in North Carolina’s communities was crucial to maintaining the multigenerational fabric that makes our state a great place to live,” said AARP North Carolina President Bob Palombo. “His nonpartisan leadership in a partisan environment has been crucial to older Americans.” Senator Burr speaks at AARP awards ceremony. Burr’s remarks were streamed live on his facebook page. The AARP selected Senator Burr for this award because of his bipartisan work on the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act. The Older Americans Act is the landmark federal law aimed at ensuring that senior citizens, particularly the most vulnerable, can live their lives in dignity. It provides critical services to Americans age 60 and older, including Meals on Wheels, family caregiver support, community service employment, and services to prevent abuse and neglect. Senator Burr led the effort in Congress to renew the Older Americans Act, and to make sure that North Carolina is getting its fair share of funding for the critical programs it provides.
08.03.2016	08.03.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Reported US Payments to Iran WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on reports that the Obama Administration paid Iran $400 million: "This has been and will continue to be a bad deal for the United States. The administration, including President Obama and Secretary Clinton, is responsible for leading America into a deal that will arm Iran, the number one state sponsor of terrorism."
07.31.2016	07.31.16 Proposal to reduce basic housing allowance is wrong Today, I'm in Fayetteville to attend the Defense Trade Show. North Carolina is a critically important military hub, with nearly a million residents who have either served or are active duty. The Airborne and Special Operations Forces who call Fort Bragg home have consistently been called upon to lead the fight against America's enemies and soon the 18th Airborne Corps headquarters will deploy to lead Operation Inherent Resolve and the fight against the Islamic State. The men and women of our military, as well as their families, make great sacrifices to serve our country. Our government must recognize these sacrifices and strive to live up to the promises made to our service members, which is why I am committed to ensuring that any changes to law that would impact the quality of life of our service members are thoughtfully and thoroughly considered. When some in Congress proposed changes to the rules that govern the basic allowance for housing, or BAH, I looked at the proposed change and recognized the significant hardship that it would cause many military families, especially dual-military families. This is why I have joined with 17 other senators in asking the Senate Armed Services Committee to remove these proposed changes from the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. As reported in the Military Times, some members of the military could see their Basic Housing Assistance cut in half. This proposal would hurt women service members in greater proportion than their male counterparts because 20percent of women on active duty are in dual-military households, versus only 3 percent of men. Additionally, 67 percent of dual-military households are enlisted and, therefore, this change would disproportionately harm those who can least afford it. A lopsided rule like this one has no place in the U.S. Armed Forces. Both Democrat and Republican members of Congress agree that this provision is bad policy. America has been at war for almost 15 years now and few people have sacrificed more over this period than those service members and their families in dual-military households. Depriving a service member of an earned benefit just because they are married to another service member is simply wrong. Over the next two months, we will continue the fight to fix this. As we mentioned in our letter to Congressional leaders, "Congress cannot stand behind provisions that directly penalize dual-military families, women and our most junior members." Maintaining the best military in the world means that we consider how to attract and retain our Active, Guard and Reserve service members. I have advocated for our troops through supporting the military budget as well as working on specific programs like maintaining commissaries for military families, modernization projects for bases and background checks for employees of military daycare centers. On veterans' issues, I have pushed our government for accountability for the survivors of Camp Lejeune's contaminated water and Agent Orange exposure, and I have advocated for better services such as expanding mental health care and improving the Veterans Choice program so that veterans do not have to wait for medical care. Just this past month, the Senate and House passed my legislation to expand dental coverage for vets across the country, including North Carolina. When bad laws come my way, you can expect me to call it like I see it, as is the case with this proposal to dock housing allowances. When there is a viable way to improve our military, I've worked across the aisle to make a proposal get across the finish line and to the president's desk. Our military cannot continue to be the best in the world unless we examine these proposed laws and carefully consider the consequences on our troops and their families. This time, I know my colleagues and I are on the right track by opposing this change. This op-ed was published by the Fayetteville Observer.
07.29.2016	07.29.16 Burr Bill to Expand Dental Care for Veterans Becomes Law WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama signed Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) legislation to ensure veterans continue to have access to dental coverage into law. The bipartisan VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2016 will continue the current veteran dental insurance program that was established by legislation authored by Senator Burr in 2010. This legislation also expands eligibility for the program to all veterans who do not currently receive dental benefits from the VA. Senator John Tester (D-MT) is a cosponsor. “We owe a great debt to our service men and women for the great sacrifices they make to keep our country safe,” said Sen. Burr. “I’m proud that my legislation to bring dental benefits to veterans is now law and that many of our service members will now be able to have this important health care benefit. This program has been successful, and opening it up to more veterans will improve overall health care. I thank my colleagues who supported this bipartisan effort.” The dental insurance program was established in 2014 and has been providing veterans with access to dental care for three years. If Congress does not act, the families currently participating will lose their dental insurance benefits when the program sunsets in 2017. The veterans, survivors and dependents who participate in the program have given it high marks for access to care and quality. The new Burr law ensures that eligible veterans, survivors and dependents of veterans continue to have access to high quality, affordable dental insurance. Veterans who are eligible to receive their dental care directly from the VA will not be impacted by this program and will continue to receive their care through VA. The text of the legislation is available here. A one-pager on the bill is available here.
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Senate Passes Three Burr Bills This Week WASHINGTON –This week, the Senate passed three pieces of legislation sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) including the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act, the VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act, and Kevin and Avonte’s Law. “We’ve had a very productive week in the Senate,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Congress does come together to work on bipartisan legislation that makes a difference for American families. The passage of my bills to address unsolved civil right crimes, provide dental care for veterans, and give law enforcement the tools to help families with developmentally disabled children and others who may wander away from caregivers is proof that the Senate is working for the American people.” Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and many cases remain unsolved to this day. The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act calls on the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with advocacy organizations, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence on cold cases from the 1960s and beyond. The bill also recognizes the potential for prosecutions at the state level, and seeks to facilitate the state and federal government collaboration toward this end. Sen. Burr and Alvin Sykes, who has tirelessly advocated for justice for civil rights victims. Photo in Senator Burr’s DC office, June 2016. VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act The bipartisan VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2016 continues the current veteran dental insurance pilot program that was established by legislation authored by Senator Burr in 2010. This legislation expands eligibility for the program to all veterans who do not currently receive dental benefits from the VA. The House of Representatives also passed the bill this week. The VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act will now go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Kevin and Avonte’s Law Cosponsored with Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Kevin and Avonte’s Law provides resources to help families locate loved ones with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, or other related conditions that make them prone to wander—sometimes with tragic results. The bill reauthorizes the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program and authorizes funding to be used for the purchase of tracking technology that helps the families of a child with developmental disabilities recover their child in the event they become separated.
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Senate Intel Committee Leaders on Release of “28 Pages” of 9/11 Report WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) made the following statement on the administration’s declassification of the “28 pages” of the report compiled by Joint Inquiry into the Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Joint Inquiry) to examine the tragic attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001: “We agree with the decision to declassify more than two dozen pages of information from a 2002 congressional report on the 9/11 attacks. These pages include unconfirmed allegations and raw reporting and have been the subject of conspiracy theories for years. We hope people will also read the related document being released by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence summarizing the results of investigations by the CIA and FBI that debunk many of the allegations contained in the declassified section of the report. We need to put an end to conspiracy theories and idle speculation that do nothing to shed light on the 9/11 attacks.” Additional documents are available here: Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 (December 2002) The Executive Summary of 2005 Joint FBI-CIA Intelligence Report Assessing the Nature and Extent of Saudi Government Support of Terrorism Declassified Version of Part Four, Joint Inquiry into intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 The 9/11 Commission Report
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on Terror Attack in Nice, France WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the terror attack in Nice, France: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families in Nice, France. Unfortunately, this fight is no longer about individual attacks. We are at war with terrorists who have the intent and capability to kill innocent people across the globe. If the United States, along with our coalition partners, does not eliminate the extremists’ intent and capability, then it is only a matter of time before the next attack.”
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Tillis & Burr Praise Passage of Kevin And Avonte’s Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed Kevin and Avonte’s Law, legislation co-sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) that provides resources to help families locate loved ones with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, or other related conditions that make them prone to wander—sometimes with tragic results. Kevin and Avonte’s Law reauthorizes the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program and authorizes funding to be used for the purchase of tracking technology that helps the families of a child with developmental disabilities recover their child in the event they become separated. “I’m pleased to see the Senate unanimously pass Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which will help save lives and give families across America a greater piece of mind,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease. We should be moving heaven and earth to help families and caregivers reunite with loved ones who wander and disappear, and Kevin and Avonte’s Law can truly make a difference in preventing tragedies.” “There have been too many tragic cases of special needs children and adults wandering away from their caregivers with heartbreaking results,” said Senator Burr. “We need to take additional steps to protect these vulnerable individuals. Law enforcement and families need better tools to locate those with special needs when they are in danger. Think of the kids and adults who will be safer as a result of this legislation. I am pleased the Senate has finally passed this bill, and I urge the House of Representatives to swiftly follow suit.” Kevin and Avonte’s Law has been endorsed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the Alzheimer’s Association, American Society on Aging, Autism Speaks, The Arc, National Autism Association, Safe Minds, and other organizations.
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act Passes Senate WASHINGTON – Last night, the Senate approved the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016, S.2854. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Sen. Claire McCaskill, (D-MO), Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO), introduced this bipartisan, bicameral legislation in April of this year. The House bill, H.R. 5067, is led by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Rep. John Conyers (D-MI). Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and many cases remain unsolved to this day. This bill calls on the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with advocacy organizations, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence on cold cases from the 1960s and beyond. The bill also recognizes the potential for prosecutions at the state level, and seeks to facilitate the state and federal government collaboration toward this end. “There are still too many unsolved murders and too many families who do not know the truth about what happened to their loved ones,” said Senator Burr. “This remains deeply troubling, but I know that this bill will help bring the truth to light and hold those accountable for atrocities committed decades ago. I am pleased the Senate has passed this bill, as it is an important part of the legacy of Emmett Till and all the other Americans who were brutally murdered and never received justice. While we can never right these unimaginable wrongs, we can reaffirm to future generations that every American is worthy of the law’s protection." “This is a big step forward,” said Senator McCaskill, a former Jackson County Prosecutor. “Now is not the time to let up on our efforts to bring justice and closure to families and communities affected by these heinous acts of violence and hatred, and I hope the Republican leaders in the U.S. House move with the same urgency as we’ve seen in the Senate.” “Too many families suffer from the unsolved murders of their loved ones during the civil rights era without receiving justice,” said Senator Leahy. “The way to best serve these families is to provide our Federal government with the tools it needs to investigate these unsolved crimes, and to hopefully, bring some sense of closure for these families. I thank Congressman Lewis for his tireless work on behalf of the families of these victims of unsolved murders from the civil rights era and I am proud that the Senate has passed this important legislation today.” “The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act marked an important step toward getting the victims of racially-motivated crimes, and their families, the answers they deserve,” said Senator Blunt. “There is still much more work to be done, however, and I’m glad that the Senate acted today to reauthorize the legislation to continue supporting efforts to bring the perpetrators of these heinous crimes to justice.” More details on the bill available here and Senator Burr introduced comments for the record here. BACKGROUND Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and few attempts to prosecute them were ever pursued. Tuskegee Institute once kept a record of verified lynchings in the United States from 1877 to 1950. The institute documented that nearly 4000 mainly unprosecuted civil rights crimes occurred during that period. Many American families continue to pass down stories of loss and disappearance even today without knowing the truth about what actually happened to their loved ones. PRIMARY GOALS OF THE BILL The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act represents a critical opportunity to right these wrongs committed, primarily against African Americans, but also against people of diverse backgrounds. In some cases, individuals still remain who were witnesses to these crimes or who can help provide evidence regarding these incidents. This bill reauthorizes and updates the original legislation that was signed into law in 2008. It seeks to respond to the concerns of victims' family members and strengthen collaboration between the Justice Department, the FBI, State and local law enforcement, and advocates to pursue these cold cases. There is a collective goal to seek the truth about this long-standing tragedies and hold the perpetrators and orchestrators of these atrocities accountable. This reauthorization also seeks to respond to the concerns of advocates regarding the implementation of the original legislation. MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION This bill calls on the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with civil rights experts, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence in these cold cases; Provides clearer direction and improved coordination among federal, state, and local law enforcement and the families of victims, advocates, and academics working on these issues; Strengthens the Department of Justice’s reporting requirements; Eliminates the pre-1969 time limitation on investigations; Eliminates the sunset provision in the original bill; Asks the Department of Justice to review specific closed cases that warrant further investigation; Maintains the previous funding levels; Establishes the process to reopen, review, and update the public on the cases previously closed and explain the outcome of cases referred to the Department of the Justice; and Clarifies the law’s intent.
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Burr, Merkley Introduce Bill to Support Nurses WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-Oregon) introduced the bipartisan Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act of 2016, legislation to reauthorize, update and improve programs that help to grow and support the nursing workforce in the United States. With many nurses retiring and baby boomers projected to increase the demand for medical care in the coming years, the nursing workforce in the United States is facing a critical juncture. To help meet these increasing needs, the Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act of 2016 would reauthorize and update the Nursing Workforce Development Programs under Title VIII of the Public Health Service Act, which include programs that support and advance nursing education, practice, recruitment and retention. “Nurses play a pivotal role in providing quality care for Americans day in and day out,” said Senator Burr. “These dedicated individuals provide care and compassion with incredible grace, helping to keep Americans healthy and offering comfort in our most challenging hours. Nurses are there for us when we need them because of the training and preparation supported by the Title VIII nursing programs. I am proud to partner with Senator Merkley to reauthorize the Title VIII nursing programs. Our legislation will ensure that our nation’s nursing workforce is prepared to meet the needs of patients in North Carolina and across our nation and it supports the life-saving work nurses do each and every day.” “As the husband of a nurse, I know firsthand the critical role that nurses play in all types of medical care,” said Senator Merkley. “Nurses are the heart of our health care system, and as our nation’s demand for health care services continues to rise through the coming decades, it will be essential that we recruit, train and support a robust nursing workforce. This bipartisan bill will help ensure that our federal nursing workforce policies are updated for the 21st century and can help to meet that demand.” Nurses and nurse educators play a critical role in delivering and training individuals to provide compassionate and quality care, often during Americans’ greatest hours of need. The Title VIII programs reauthorized and updated in this legislation seek to support the training and education of individuals in the nursing profession in order to sustain a robust nursing pipeline and ensure our nation has the workforce necessary to meet our growing healthcare needs. Title VIII programs are designed to address specific challenges in meeting our nation’s nursing workforce demands. These programs support and advance nursing education, practice, recruitment, and retention so that we have a nursing workforce prepared to meet Americans’ health care needs now and in the future, including in rural and medically underserved communities, which can face unique challenges in providing quality and timely care to the individuals living in these communities. Title VIII includes a broad range of programs that support nursing education from entry-level preparation through graduate study, including grants, loans and scholarships to support nurses-in-training, nurse educators and educational institutions that train nurses. Between 2006 and 2013 alone, Title VIII supported more than 520,000 nurses and nursing students, as well as numerous academic nursing institutions and healthcare facilities. The Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act of 2016 would reauthorize the Title VIII nursing workforce programs through Fiscal Year 2021, including programs specifically designed to support training and educating individuals to provide care for seniors. This bipartisan bill also updates the Title VIII programs to ensure that they reflect the current nursing workforce needs and opportunities by: Adding nurse-managed health clinics as entities eligible to receive Title VIII funding; Updating the Title VIII programs to reflect the role of clinical nurse specialists and such programs as part of advanced education nursing; and Streamlining and modernizing the Nurse Education, Practice, Quality, and Retention funding opportunities. The Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act of 2016 is supported by the American Nurses Association, the American Association of the Colleges of Nursing, and 51 national nursing organizations.
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Burr Statement on Democratic Zika Filibuster: Zika is Here Now, Congress Must Act WASHINGTON – Today, Democratic Senate leadership voted again to block the Zika funding bill that would provide $1.1 billion to combat the Zika virus. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the vote: “I am deeply disappointed that Democratic leaders continue to play political games with American lives,” said Senator Burr. “We know that the Zika virus can cause devastating birth defects and that it is spread by mosquitoes that can be found in large portions of the country, including North Carolina. The American people expect the government to take appropriate steps to keep pregnant women and their children safe from this serious disease. Mothers and their families who are most likely to be impacted by Zika don’t have months to wait—they are anxious for action now. Repeated attempts to block Zika funding to score political points are dangerous and unacceptable.”
07.14.2016	07.14.16 SENATE HONORS INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONALS FOR SERVICE TO NATION WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate is honoring the courage and sacrifice of the men and women of the U.S. intelligence community by designating July 26, 2016 as “United States Intelligence Professionals Day.” U.S. Sen. Warner (D- VA), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, introduced a resolution that was unanimously approved by the Senate, acknowledging intelligence officers, past and present, for their service and professionalism in protecting the United States from those who wish to do us harm. “Intelligence professionals work tirelessly in defense of our nation, yet we seldom hear about their successes or their sacrifices,” said Sen. Warner. “These quiet heroes work in silence to protect the nation, being unable to discuss their jobs even with their own families. As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I see how their dedication and hard work keep our country safe, and I thank them for their service to our nation.” This bill comes 69 years after President Harry Truman signed the National Security Act of 1947, which laid the foundation for today’s intelligence community and continues to govern its activities. The legislation to establish Intelligence Professionals Day was co-sponsored by Intelligence Committee Chair Richard Burr (R-NC), Vice Chair Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Committee members Sens. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Susan Collins (R-ME), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Angus King (I-ME), James Lankford (R-OK), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). “Our intelligence personnel put their lives on the line every day to keep America safe,” said Sen. Burr. “Due to the nature of intelligence work, it is often impossible to recognize the contributions of these dedicated men and women in a public way. As Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I understand and appreciate the dedication of our intelligence officials. Thank you for what you do to protect American lives.” “I’ve served on the Senate Intelligence Committee for seven years, and over that time I’ve developed a deep appreciation for the incredible work done by the intelligence community to keep our country safe,” said Sen. Feinstein. “These individuals work behind the scenes with little or no fanfare and their dedication serves as an example for us all. I’m proud of their work and thankful for everything they do.” “Intelligence professionals serve our country in anonymity knowing that most of the work they do to protect our freedom will never be made public,” Sen. Mikulski said. “They are unsung heroes who risk their lives and even give their lives fighting terrorists and those who wish to do this country harm. This bill honors America’s intelligence professionals with their own national day of recognition. As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I am proud and honored to support the brave men and women of the intelligence community.” “As I’ve seen first-hand, the men and women of our Intelligence Community work every day to protect and defend this nation, and they do it behind the scenes with little fanfare or acclaim. We may never know their names, but we’re able to go about our everyday lives free from fear because of their work. And for that they deserve our enduring praise and gratitude,” Sen. King said. “I’m proud the Senate joined together to pass this resolution thanking and paying tribute to those professionals, but I’m even prouder that we have people of such incredible bravery and character serving our nation.” The full text of the resolution is available here.
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Burr, King Fight for More Affordable Childcare for American Families WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Angus King (I-Maine) introduce the Promoting Affordable Childcare for Everyone (PACE) Act, legislation that merges two previous bills they introduced that would improve the major federal tax policies that help make childcare more affordable for families across the country. “Childcare is becomingly increasingly more difficult for families to afford, and that’s not only bad for them, it’s bad for the economy,” Senator King said. “We need to ensure that our tax policies keep pace with rising childcare costs and that working families have the support they need to stay on the job. The PACE Act merges two sensible approaches to current policy and will ensure that fewer American families have to make the impossible and unfair choice between childcare and their jobs.” “Affordable, reliable child care is one of the greatest challenges that many working families face,” said Senator Burr. “I’m glad we can come together to expand affordable child care options for parents who are working to build a better future for their children. I fought hard to improve child care and to make it more affordable for working families with the Child Care and Development Block Grant Law of 2014. But as any parent can tell you, we've got more to do. Parents need safe, affordable child care. And this bill has the added benefit of helping families who need a caregiver for their aging parents.” For too many families, the cost of childcare can make it difficult to maintain employment and make ends meet. In nearly half of the country, the annual cost of full-time childcare for a 4-year old is greater than the average cost of in-state tuition at a 4-year college or university. Those pressures are felt most by low-wage workers who spend on average more than 30 percent of their income on childcare. While the federal government provides two significant tax benefits to help offset childcare costs – the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC) and Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) – they are both in need of an update. For example, neither policies have kept pace with inflation, meaning they have become less useful over time as the cost of childcare increases. The Promoting Affordable Childcare for Everyone (PACE) Act – which combines the Access to Childcare Expansion (ACE) Act Senator King introduced yesterday and Senator Burr’s Child and Dependent Care FSA Enhancement Act to create a strong, bipartisan bill – would enact several changes to make both tax policies immediately more generous and modify them to reflect the changing economic landscape by requiring an annual inflation adjustments that will provide families with greater spending power when seeking care for their children. Because both tax provisions affect care for the elderly and individuals with disabilities, those enhanced benefits will extend to them as well. More specifically the Promoting Affordable Childcare for Everyone Act would: Modernize the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit by: Making the credit refundable in order to expand the credit’s reach to low-income working parents. Increase the value of the credit by raising the credit rate for families of all income levels and creating a new top credit rate of 50 percent that phases down to 35 percent for higher-income families in order to expand the reach of the credit and put more money back into the pockets of working parents. Indexing the credit to inflation to ensure the value of the credit will not be eroded over time by rising childcare costs, but instead, will remain at a sufficient level to help make costs more affordable. Enhance Dependent Care Flexible Spend Accounts (FSAs) by: Increasing the amount of pre-tax dollars families can put into these accounts from $5,000 to $7,500. This exclusion from gross income allows families to save money on income and FICA taxes, and the PACE Act’s increase means those savings will go even further than current law’s. Indexing the new cap to inflation so FSAs can keep pace with the cost of childcare. Because the current $5,000 cap is not indexed to inflation, families are falling further and further behind the rising cost of care. By raising the cap to $7,500, and indexing that amount to inflation, the PACE Act ensures FSAs are reliably updated to keep steady a parent’s purchasing power for their child’s care. To read a copy of the legislation, click HERE.
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Burr Praises Passage of Bill to Combat Opioid Addiction WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate voted 92-2 to send the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) to President Obama’s desk. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the passage of the bill: “Opioid addiction touches far too many lives,” said Senator Burr. “Thousands of North Carolina families are grappling with the heartbreaking disease of addiction. I’m glad Congress could come together to pass this legislation that will save lives. Families need these treatment resources.”
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Senate Passes Burr Bill to Provide Veterans with Dental Coverage WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) bill to continue providing veterans with access to dental coverage. The bipartisan VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2016 will continue the current veteran dental insurance pilot program that was established by legislation authored by Senator Burr in 2010. This legislation will also expand eligibility for the program to all veterans who do not currently receive dental benefits from the VA. Senator John Tester (D-MT) is a cosponsor. “Making sure veterans have dental care is the right thing to do,” said Senator Burr. “The veterans’ dental insurance pilot program has a track record of success and it is time to open it up to all veterans. Medical professionals have long known that proper dental care is linked to better overall health. I am pleased the Senate has recognized the value of this dental benefit for veterans and has passed my bill.” The dental insurance pilot program was established in 2014 and has been providing veterans with access to dental care for three years. If Congress does not act, the families currently participating will lose their dental insurance benefits when the program sunsets in 2017. The veterans, survivors and dependents who participate in the program have given it high marks for access to care and quality. The new Burr bill puts the dental insurance program into law, ensuring that eligible veterans, survivors and dependents of veterans continue to have access to high quality, affordable dental insurance. Veterans who are eligible to receive their dental care directly from the VA will not be impacted by this program and will continue to receive their care through VA. The text of the legislation is available here. A one-pager on the bill is available here.
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Thune Leads Senate REBOOT Members in Introducing Legislation to Improve Meaningful Use Program WASHINGTON — U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Pat Roberts (R-Kans.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), and Bill Cassidy (R-La.) today introduced the Electronic Health Record (EHR) Regulatory Relief Act (S. 3173), legislation that would provide regulatory flexibility and hardship relief to providers and hospitals operating under the meaningful use program. “Health information technology, especially the advancements in electronic health records, is an integral part of the future of America’s health care delivery system,” said Thune. “Our bill ensures that unnecessary regulatory burdens do not continue to negatively affect providers’ ability to leverage technology to improve patient care. I’m thankful for the administration’s willingness to provide constructive feedback and engage with Senate REBOOT members on this important piece of legislation.” “This legislation will help ease the burden of the meaningful use program for doctors and hospitals who have told me they want to spend more time caring for patients instead of trying to comply with government regulations,” said Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander. “Specifically, it will give hospitals the same flexibility that Congress passed for doctors with overwhelming bipartisan support last April, and it will give doctors and hospitals the certainty of law that the 90-day reporting window for meaningful use proposed by CMS earlier this month is here to stay. I look forward to Senate passage of this legislation as we continue to work to pull the electronic medical records system out of the ditch, transforming it into something that doctors and hospitals look forward to rather than dread.” “As doctors and hospitals continue the transition to effectively using Electronic Health Records, it is important that regulations do not get in the way of patient care,” said Enzi. “This legislation would ensure that health care providers can use electronic medical records as a patient care tool and continue to incentivize adoption of new technologies. The future of health information technology is bright, but we cannot let the weight of unworkable regulations burden that progress.” “Leveraging health information technology holds the promise of improving patient care and better utilizing taxpayer funds,” said Roberts. However, the prescriptive nature of the meaningful use program has made it nearly unworkable for our doctors and hospitals. I am proud we have found some reasonable ways to provide much needed regulatory relief to the program and allow our health care professionals to spend more timing focusing on what they do best – caring for patients.” “One-size-fits-all regulation is jeopardizing the full potential for electronic health records to improve care for North Carolinians,” said Burr. “I’m pleased to be working with my colleagues to advance common-sense policy that will provide flexibility and better support North Carolina’s hospitals and doctors in what’s most important—providing quality care to North Carolinians.” “As a doctor, I know firsthand how bureaucratic hurdles can interfere with patient care,” said Cassidy. “This legislation will reduce those regulatory burdens on providers, allowing them to better serve patients.” The senators’ legislation would shorten the reporting period for eligible physicians and hospitals from 365 days to 90 days, relax the all-or-nothing nature of the current program requirements, and extend the ability for eligible providers and hospitals to apply for a hardship exception from the meaningful use requirements. In April, the senators wrote to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Acting Administrator Andy Slavitt to request input on a draft bill, and with the feedback they received, developed the version that was introduced today. Click here for a summary document and here for legislative text. Thune, Alexander, Enzi, Roberts, and Burr are original members of the Senate’s health IT working group, Re-examining the Strategies Needed to Successfully Adopt Health IT (REBOOT). In 2013, the senators released a white paper in which they outlined their concerns with current federal health IT policy, including increased health care costs, lack of momentum toward interoperability, potential waste and abuse, patient privacy, and long-term sustainability. The white paper was part of a broader effort to solicit feedback from the administration and foster an ongoing conversation on improving the health IT program with the stakeholder community, including health care providers, technology vendors, and others.
07.08.2016	07.08.16 Senator Burr Statement on Shootings of Police Officers in Dallas WASHINGTON –Today, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the attack in Dallas that killed 5 police officers and injured 7 others: “My prayers are with the victims of this horrific attack, and with their families. Law enforcement needs to complete their investigation of these crimes, and I fully support them in their efforts. North Carolina’s law enforcement officers put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe and I thank them for their work each day. After multiple acts of violence, this has been a sad week for America.”
07.06.2016	07.06.16 Sen. Burr Statement on Senate Democrats’ Filibuster of Kate’s Law and Sanctuary Cities Bills WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Senate Democrats’ filibuster of both Kate’s Law (S. 2193) and the Sanctuary Cities (S. 3100) bills: “These two bills are important for both those who care about the rule of law and those who care about keeping law abiding Americans safe from repeat offender criminals. I’m disappointed Senate Democrats are voting to prevent these bills from going forward, and in doing so, they are continuing to put American lives at risk. Regardless of one's position on immigration, we should all be able to agree that illegal immigrants who are known violent criminals should not be allowed to roam free in the United States.”
07.05.2016	07.05.16 Deputy Commandant for Aviation Honors North Carolina’s Commitment to the Marine Corps Sen. Burr’s Facebook Video Reaches More Than Half a Million People Over July 4th Weekend WASHINGTON –Friday, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) attended a parade honoring North Carolina’s commitment to the Marine Corps at Marine Barracks Washington, DC. Community leaders from Havelock, NC, home to Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Cherry Point attended as well. The Marine Barracks Washington DC is the oldest active post in the Marine Corps. Senator Burr streamed the event on Facebook live, and the video in two separate postings, reached more than 500,000 people over the Independence Day weekend. “Friday night’s event was exceptional, and I was honored to witness the parade with my colleague Sen. Tillis,” said Sen. Burr. “On the Fourth of July weekend, I am pleased I could share this moving tribute to the Marines of North Carolina, and that so many people were able to watch. I thank the Marine Barracks Washington for this honor.” WATCH live stream on Facebook WATCH video on Facebook
07.01.2016	07.01.16 Burr: Student Loan Rate Decrease Puts $1.1 Billion in the Pockets of North Carolinians WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released a video statement on the student loan interest rate decrease that goes into effect today. Student loan interest rates are dropping for the third year in a row to 3.76 percent, down from a high, government-set rate of 6.8 percent in 2012. This decrease will save North Carolina families more than a billion dollars in this year alone. In 2013, Senator Burr led the effort to pass the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013. This law allows students and their families to take advantage of today’s low interest rate environment and is directly responsible for today’s student loan interest rate decrease. WATCH “In short, this law puts more money in your pocket,” said Senator Burr. “Bipartisan agreement is rare in Washington; I’m proud to have led the charge in 2013 that is making higher education more affordable today.” In April, Senator Burr introduced the Boost Saving for College Act. This bipartisan legislation would provide a tax credit to low-income and middle-income families who might not ordinarily save for college, encourage employers to match the college savings of their employees, allow savings that aren’t needed for college to be rolled over into a Roth IRA for retirement, and enable families with a disabled child to rollover a 529 account into an ABLE account. Sen. Burr also joined with Senator Angus King (I-ME) to write the Repay Act, which simplifies the complex maze of federal student loan repayment programs by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into two plans: a fixed repayment plan, based on a 10-year period, and a single, simplified income-driven repayment option. The Repay Act received a unanimous vote of 97-0 in the Senate last spring.
07.01.2016	07.01.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Terror Attack in Bangladesh WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the attack in Bangladesh, which the Islamic State has claimed: “This is the second significant terror attack in one week, in vastly different parts of the world. Extremist groups are no longer challenged by the distance to their targets and we are likely no longer protected by the vast oceans beyond our borders. The terrorist threat is truly global. With each passing day terrorists increase their capabilities and grow their evil intentions. To keep America and our allies’ safe, we must disrupt these groups where they recruit, train, and plot to carry out their attacks. I am monitoring the situation in Bangladesh and I pray for the victims.”
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Terror Attack at Istanbul Airport WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the terror attack at the Istanbul airport in Turkey: “This attack, like others before it, shows the barbarity of the enemy we face. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. While it is too early to determine who is ultimately responsible, this attack does fit the model previously employed by ISIL. These attacks are tragic reminders that ISIL is not contained and that America and our allies need a comprehensive and decisive strategy to defeat this extremist group.” This past Saturday, Senator Burr delivered the Republican Weekly Address on the threat Islamic terrorism poses to the U.S. and our allies and called once again for the President to develop an end to end strategy to defeat ISIL.
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Burr: Senate Should Approve Funding Now on Zika, Veterans, Military WASHINGTON – This morning, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding the Democrat leadership’s filibuster of legislation to combat the Zika virus, provide health care for veterans, and fund military construction priorities for North Carolina: “This legislation provides the funding for Zika that every Democrat Senator voted for six weeks ago,” said Senator Burr. “It also allocates a record level of funding for our veterans, providing every cent that the President himself asked for in his budget to ensure VA health care is fully funded. Some of my colleagues seem to think this is a game. For pregnant women, and women who hope to become pregnant, the Zika virus is not a game. For our veterans who need health care, VA funding is not a game. This is a reasonable bill, and for many North Carolinians, lives may be at stake.” H.R. 2577, the Military Construction, Veterans Administration, and Zika Appropriations Act includes the following key provisions: $1.1 billion to combat the Zika virus. $52.8 billion to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs and the VA hospital system, satisfying 100 percent of President Obama’s budget request. Policies to improve Congressional oversight in the wake of the VA wait time scandal including new whistle blower protections, additional staff for the VA’s Inspector General Office, and requirements that VA issue timely reports. $297 million for 12 military construction projects in North Carolina: Camp Lejeune - $18.482 Million for Range Facilities Safety Improvements Camp Lejeune - $31 Million for Dental Clinic Replacement Cherry Point MCAS - $12.515 Million for Central Heating Plant Conversion Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $29.6 Million for C-17 Corrosion Control/Fuel Cell Hangar Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $21 Million for C-17 Type III Hydrant Refueling System Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $5.7 Million for KC-46A ADAL Building for AGE/Fuselage Training Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $2.25 Million KC-46A ADAL Squadron Operations Facilities Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $90 Million for KC-46A Two Bay Corrosion/Fuel Cell Hangar Fort Bragg - $10.905 Million for SOF Combat Medical Training Facility Fort Bragg - $21.420 Million for SOF Parachute Rigging Facility Fort Bragg - $30.670 Million for SOF Special Tactics Facility (Phase 3) Fort Bragg - $23.598 Million for SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility
06.24.2016	06.24.16 Chairman Burr Statement on Britain’s Exit from the European Union WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, made the following statement on the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union: "The people of the United Kingdom have just completed a historic referendum, and have rendered a decision on their future. While there will be a great deal of discussion in the coming days and weeks about what the 'Leave' win means for them and for us, our friends and allies in the UK should know this: we respect their decision, and we stand by them, just as they have always stood by us."
06.24.2016	06.24.16 Senator Burr Delivers Weekly Republican Address on Terrorism in the United States WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, will deliver the Republican response to the President’s Weekly Address tomorrow morning at 6 AM Eastern. The address will be on radio stations across the country and will be available here. Senator Burr’s remarks are focus on the terror threats to the United States as the Islamic State and Al-Qaida continue to press for attacks against the West. Sen Burr: “The challenge we face today is unlike one we have ever known. The terrorists are not new and their message is not new. It is their leveraging of our freedoms, technology, and innovation to kill that makes this new and a real threat. That’s why the Obama Administration needs to treat the threat posed by ISIL seriously and lead a campaign to defeat and not merely ‘contain’ the terrorist group. The principal way to prevent ISIL inspired attacks here in America is to defeat ISIL in Iraq and in Syria.” Full transcript is below: “Hello. I’m Senator Richard Burr from North Carolina, and I’m the Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “I’d like to talk to you about terrorism and the threats posed to America by ‘ISIL,’ al-Qai’da, and other extremist groups. “The challenge we face today is unlike one we have ever known. The terrorists are not new and their message is not new. It is their leveraging of our freedoms, technology, and innovation to kill that makes this new and a real threat. That’s why the Obama Administration needs to treat the threat posed by ISIL seriously and lead a campaign to defeat and not merely ‘contain’ the terrorist group. “The principal way to prevent ISIL inspired attacks here in America is to defeat ISIL in Iraq and in Syria. Last week, CIA Director John Brennan testified before my committee and the American people about the growing threat of terrorism and how our intelligence community is challenged to protect us from attacks. The hearing took place just four days after 49 individuals were tragically murdered in Orlando, Florida by a disturbed and evil person. Chillingly, the CIA Director predicted more attacks like those in San Bernardino and Orlando. He assessed that ISIL can draw on a ‘large cadre of western fighters who could potentially serve as operatives for attacks here in the west.’ “I’ve said before that we live in an open society, one that values freedom and diversity. And, contrary to what some would have you believe, we can live in a free and open society while still being safe. I also feel strongly that we need to continually protect Americans’ civil liberties and privacy. The content of our phone calls, email discussions, bank transactions, medical records, and data should be secure. I have long believed that consumer data is too insecure and that consumers should seek solutions to protect their information. Some of those consumers now happen to be terrorists – and those terrorists are using secure messaging applications to recruit, plan, and execute attacks against civilians. “What is increasingly clear is that the very technology that is enabling tremendous innovation in manufacturing, medicine, and other areas of the global economy, is also providing terrorists ways to innovate and propagate their evil. We find ourselves at a point in time where laws that were enacted to provide authorities and capabilities to our law enforcement and intelligence community agencies are out of date, stale, and in some cases, no longer applicable. “We face a growing and significant threat from ISIL and contrary to what the Administration would have you believe, we face a threat at home and abroad from an ever capable al-Qai’da. We have learned from 15 years at war that we cannot sit back and expect to be protected at home by the great expanse of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. “Make no mistake, terrorism is global. We will win this fight against our adversaries, but we will only win if we take the fight to them. I have said it before and it remains truer today than when I first said it – we must attack ISIL and al-Qai’da, and those who want to do us harm, where they raise funds, where they recruit, and where they plan their attacks. “We must deny the terrorists a safe haven. We have not effectively brought the collective strength of America to the fight against ISIL. “The Administration has paid lip service to the threat and has taken small steps in some areas and not in others, but it has not directed the full capabilities of this great nation against this problem. “Terrorism has reached our doorstep and touched innocent citizens in Fort Hood, Boston, San Bernardino and Orlando. Right now I fear that the question is not if local, state, or federal police officers will have to respond to another attack; it’s when. And I’m not willing to accept that as a new reality and a new norm. “Director Brennan made it clear that ‘despite all our progress against ISIL on the battlefield and in the financial realm, our efforts have not reduced the group's terrorism capability and global reach.’ Even more worrisome, he assesses that as the pressures mount on ISIL, it will ‘intensify its global terror campaign.’ “The President has spoken often about progress the coalition of countries has made to ‘contain’ ISIL’s geographic reach, to degrade its finance and media operations, and to remove its fighters from the battlefield. Let’s start being realistic about the problem before us. Let’s understand it and let’s address it. “While the U.S.-led coalition has made some progress, America and her allies have simply not made the progress we need in order to eliminate the threat ISIL poses. America is the greatest country on earth, and our allies are with us. The time to take action is now. “I’m Senator Burr. Thank you for listening.”
06.22.2016	06.22.16 Senate Passes Burr Resolution Designating July 8th as “Collector Car Appreciation Day” WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a car enthusiast, released the following statement on the passage of his resolution to designate July 8th as Collector Car Appreciation Day: “My love of vintage cars is no secret,” said Senator Burr. “I’m glad we could pass this resolution to recognize the folks who enjoy the classic American hobby of restoring collector cars. This resolution celebrates the enthusiasts who work to preserve iconic vehicles, even if it means getting a little grease on your hands.” Senator Burr repairs his 1973 Volkswagen Thing Senator Burr is also the cosponsor of the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act, or the RPM Act, which prevents the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from cracking down on amateur race car mechanics and hobbyists.
06.22.2016	06.22.16 Senator Burr Delivers Remarks on Senate Floor in Support of Legislation to Enable Law Enforcement to More Effectively Combat Terrorism WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee made remarks on the Senate Floor on his legislation with Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The amendment would enable the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to more quickly obtain the electronic transaction records of suspected terrorists. The amendment failed to move forward on a vote of 58-38, but the Senate may reconsider the vote this week. WATCH Sen. Burr Deliver Remarks Sen Burr: “We are here today to fix something that’s broken. This is simply to provide law enforcement with tools that enable them to fulfill their mission, which is to keep America safe.”
06.22.2016	06.22.16 Senate Filibusters Legislation to Enable Law Enforcement to More Effectively Combat Terrorism WASHINGTON – Today, by a vote of 58-38, the Senate failed to move forward with consideration of an amendment that would enable the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to more quickly obtain the electronic transaction records of suspected terrorists. U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and John McCain (R-AZ), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, offered the amendment on Monday evening. “We must equip our law enforcement with the tools to combat terrorism, and I am disappointed that the Senate is currently at a stalemate even though the majority clearly supports this important amendment,” said Sen. Burr. “The threat posed by the Islamic State and other terror groups continues to grow and we must do all we can to provide our law enforcement officers and analysts the tools they need. The Central Intelligence Agency Director last week testified before my committee that the Islamic State has called for intensified attacks against the west. We cannot sit idly by while more Americans are endangered. I thank my cosponsors for their support and look forward to another opportunity for Congress to take action to enable law enforcement to protect Americans from the increasing terror threat.” “I am grateful to Senator Burr for his leadership on these issues,” said Senator McCain. “It is disappointing that my colleagues in the Senate voted down our amendment to give law enforcement a counterterrorism authority that the FBI considers its number one priority. To be clear, this amendment would not have allowed the FBI access to the content of private messages, but would have given law enforcement the ability to look at non-content electronic communication transactional records in the course of a national security investigation, such as how much time a suspicious individual spends on a website. I will continue working to advance policies in the Senate to keep Americans safe. ” The amendment clarifies the authorities of the FBI to allow it to obtain electronic communication transactional records in the course of national security investigations. Currently, the FBI can obtain these non-content transactional telephone records and financial records but not internet records due to conflicting legal interpretations, which is hamstringing the FBI’s ability to obtain important information in national security investigations. FBI Director James Comey has identified this provision as the FBI’s top legislative priority. The amendment would also make permanent existing authorities under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that allow for the monitoring of non-U.S. citizen “lone wolf” terrorists, including ISIS-inspired terrorists who do not have direct connections to foreign terrorist organizations. Senator Burr introduced similar legislation last year.
06.21.2016	06.21.16 CHAIRMEN BURR AND MCCAIN ENHANCE COUNTERRORISM TOOLS TO TARGET LONE WOLF ATTACKERS, VOTE EXPECTED TOMORROW Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and John McCain (R-AZ), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Jeff Sessions (R-AL) and Tom Cotton (R-NC) late yesterday in filing an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act that would clarify the authorities of the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) to allow it to obtain electronic communication transactional records in the course of security investigations. The amendment would also make permanent existing authorities under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that allow for the monitoring of non-U.S. citizen “lone wolf” attackers who do not have direct connections to foreign terrorist organizations. A vote on the Burr-McCain amendment is expected in the Senate tomorrow. "The United States needs a comprehensive way to battle the clear threat of lone wolf terrorists,” said Senator Burr. “This amendment gives the intelligence and law enforcement communities the tools they need to effectively combat this increasingly frequent threat to the American people. This commonsense amendment includes a proposal that the Administration asked for to enhance law enforcement's abilities to catch terrorists, and Congress should give them that tool.” “In the wake of the tragic massacre in Orlando, it is important our law enforcement have the tools they need to conduct counterterrorism investigations and track ‘lone wolves,’ or ISIL-inspired terrorists who do not have direct connections to foreign terrorist organizations but who seek to harm Americans,” said Senator McCain. “My amendment would do just that by enacting the ‘ECTR Fix,’ which would allow the FBI to obtain non-content electronic communication transaction records to investigate suspected terrorists, and by allowing our law enforcement to combat ‘lone wolves.’ To be clear, this amendment would not allow the FBI access to the content of private messages, but will only allow law enforcement to look at non-content electronic communication transactional records in the course of a national security investigation, such as how much time a suspicious individual spends on a website. I look forward to working with my Republican and Democratic colleagues to pass this amendment.” The amendment is here.
06.17.2016	06.17.16 Sen. Burr Statement on Inclusion of NC Tourism Provisions in Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON –Senator Burr made the following statement after yesterday’s announcement that two North Carolina provisions were secured in the FY2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, a measure to fund federal land management agencies and environmental infrastructure accounts: “I am pleased the committee included the Burr-Tillis provisions to enhance two of NC’s state treasures. These are significant steps forward for both the Corolla Horses and scenic Bald Head Island. Tourism is an important component of our state’s economy and I will keep working in Congress to ensure that North Carolina remains a top vacation hot spot.” In April 2016, Senate approved the Corolla Wild Horse Protection Act, an amendment sponsored by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC). Senator Burr has long fought to preserve the eastern shore’s vibrant tourist economy.
06.15.2016	06.15.16 Burr, Alexander: Government Watchdog Finds FDA Lacks Plan to Keep Pace with Science, Efficiently Review Life-Saving Medical Products Senators say reports underscore the need for smart legislation and oversight to ensure safe cures, treatments reach Americans faster WASHINGTON, D.C., June 15 – Senior members of the Senate health committee today released two separate reports from the government’s independent watchdog finding the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lacks a clear plan to help the agency keep pace with the science behind the drugs and medical devices it regulates and to ensure its three centers are working together to efficiently review life-saving medical products. Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) said: “These reports demonstrate the need for Congress to pass smart laws and then conduct rigorous oversight to ensure that an agency tasked with safeguarding the health of Americans isn’t falling behind. As we work to pass the most important legislation this year in 21st Century Cures, I will also be working to ensure FDA carries out provisions of the 2012 law that were intended to help its centers work together and help the agency keep up with the fast pace of science.” Senior Senate health committee member, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said: “I authored the provisions of the 2012 law that required GAO to conduct this review because I want to make sure that FDA keeps pace with the medical innovation that holds so much potential for treating and curing devastating diseases like cancer and Alzheimer’s. Today’s reports reveal deep and concerning cracks in FDA’s foundation. This is not a matter of FDA not having enough money—this is about FDA’s culture. I hope FDA takes GAO’s recommendations to heart and moves quickly to adopt commonsense reforms to better measure and manage how FDA fulfills its public health mission.” The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) was signed into law in 2012 following overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress and required the FDA to develop a plan to ensure the agency is keeping up with the fast pace of science and the new medical products it is tasked with regulating. To improve the agency’s ability to review groundbreaking drugs and medical devices—for example, combination medical products like a heart stents that also deliver blood thinners to prevent clots —the legislation also required the FDA to develop a strategic integrated management plan (SIMP) to improve coordination between its three centers overseeing medical products: biologics, drugs, and medical devices. Congress included both of these provisions in the 2012 law after hearing from frustrated patients and makers of innovative drugs and medical devices about a slow, unpredictable review process at the FDA. The first report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) finds the FDA is not measuring whether or not the agency is making progress in keeping up with the science behind the drugs and devices it regulates—what is called “regulatory science”—nor is it accounting for the $504 million the agency spent from FY2010 – 2014 on regulatory science. According to today’s report, “FDA does not have the information necessary to track funding and conduct strategic planning agency-wide for its regulatory science priorities because most of the centers and offices did not collect information on the FDA priority areas that were addressed by the projects they funded.” The GAO’s recommendations, which have been endorsed by the Department of Health and Human Services, are to both develop and document measurable goals, including targets and time frames and systematically track funding across its regulatory science priority areas. The second report finds serious gaps in the FDA’s strategic plan, which was required by Congress in FDASIA to help the agency coordinate between its three centers and bring life-saving drugs and devices to patients more quickly. The GAO found the FDA’s plan “presents high-level information on goals and performance measures for medical product oversight, but lacks detail on how it will be used or implemented.” GAO continued, “The absence of a documented long-term plan for medical product oversight may hinder FDA’s efforts to address emerging issues that require center collaboration, such as access to quality data and developing requirements for combination products … [F]ormal strategic planning is needed for medical products.” The GAO recommends that the agency use a strategic plan that involves all agencies—especially as America’s researchers are creating new and innovative medical products—adding, “Emerging issues—including increasingly complex medical products such as combination products, the need for integrated information systems, and the increased hiring demands for specific scientific knowledge—go beyond the expertise of a single medical product center and highlight the growing importance of strategic planning across medical products. Advances involving new diagnostic tools, treatments, and cures require collaboration in order to be successful.”
06.15.2016	06.15.16 Burr Leads Child Care Oversight Hearing, Witnesses Report New Sex Offender Background Checks Protect Kids WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) chaired a Senate Health Education Labor & Pensions Committee hearing on the implementation of the Child Care Development Block Grant Act of 2014. HELP Committee Chairman Sen. Alexander (R-TN) requested that Sen. Burr chair this hearing because of his legislative leadership on early learning and child care policy. In 2014, Sen. Burr led the charge along with Sen. Barbra Mikulski (D-MD) to pass the bipartisan Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. This landmark legislation expanded access to child care for low-income parents so that they can go to work and also have peace of mind that their children are in safe care. It requires child care providers to undergo criminal background checks to ensure our children are in safe hands, and it sets high standards for the quality of care overall. Burr questioned witness Margaret Williams, Executive Director of the Maryland Family Network, about implementation of his provision in the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act that requires background checks for child care workers to include the National Sex Offender Registry. WATCH BURR: “You mentioned in your testimony, once you began checking the sex offender registry that you found you had 80 registered sex offenders who were working in child care…Can you share with the committee why that search was so enlightening to you…why you found it so important?” WILLIAMS: “Our background checks were not specific enough about what was required. We as advocates assumed that [sex offender registry] was something being checked on background checks, and we found that it wasn’t systematically happening. It was spotty and we were shocked at the number of so called ‘hits’ in the system that we found. Having that spelled out clearly and calling them comprehensive background checks…is really important to us.” Sen. Mikulski praised Burr’s commitment to work across the aisle to ensure low-income children are safe in child care settings. WATCH “The phrase compassionate conservative, I think reflects your work here,” said Sen. Mikulski. “Yes you are a conservative, that means you keep an eye on the money, but you also keep an eye on tradition, and on family, and on responsibility. You really were one of the spearheads in terms of background checks. I was happy to support you as a child welfare social worker, as a child abuse social worker. No child should be ever abused in their home or in a daycare home.” North Carolina resident Sheila Hoyle, Executive Director of the Southwestern Child Development Commission testified on the impact of the law for low-income children. WATCH “When it comes to protecting children, Congress took the right step,” said Hoyle. “The CCDBG Grant act of 2014 is the right policy at the right time. We’ve had 18 years to review state policy, we’ve looked at the neuroscience research, we understand now much more about brain development and what happens to very young children, and we have evaluated high quality programs so that we can identify their characteristics…It is past time that we offer accountability for children and families in how we assist them.”
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Intel Chairman Burr: Islamic State Has Created A Global Battlefield WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, delivered remarks with his Senate colleagues to the media on the developing investigation into the terror attack in Orlando. WATCH “America is an open society. We value our freedom and diversity,” said Sen. Burr. “ISIL has leveraged those freedoms to their advantage to attract misguided individuals who carry out acts of hate” A full transcript of Sen. Burr’s remarks is available below. Video of the event is on Senator Burr’s YouTube page. It was also broadcast live on Facebook. I hope that all Americans will allow the FBI to continue this investigation no matter how long it takes because the important thing is for us to identify the facts in this. America is an open society. We value our freedom and diversity. ISIL has leveraged those freedoms to their advantage to attract misguided individuals who carry out acts of hate. ISIL has created a global battlefield. Many of you have asked is this inspired, is it enabled or is it directed? There is no differential [difference] today. A global battlefield is what ISIL has been able to create through the use of social media. And now individuals around the world, not just here, are targets of that solicitation. Here is one reality, one fact: you cannot negotiate with people who want to kill you. The challenge for us and this administration is that we must adopt a strategy now. A strategy that eliminates the safe haven that ISIL has, their ability to plan external plots against the United States, against Europe and against the rest of the world. My hope is that we will glean enough information out of the Orlando attack to guide the policy makers to make the right decisions.
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Burr Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Provide Veterans with Dental Care WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the bipartisan VA Dental Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2016. This legislation reauthorizes the current veteran dental insurance pilot program, created by a Burr provision in the Caregiver and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010, and expands access to all veterans who do not currently receive dental benefits. Senator John Tester (D-MT) is a cosponsor. “The veterans dental insurance pilot program is a success,” said Senator Burr. “We know that access to dental care is important to maintaining overall health. The veterans’ dental insurance program works and it is time to give all of our veterans access to this insurance.” The dental insurance pilot program was established in 2014 and has been proving veterans with access to dental care for three years. If Congress does not act, the families currently participating will lose their dental insurance benefits when the program sunsets in 2017. The veterans, survivors and dependents who participate in the program have given it high marks for access to care and quality. The Burr bill puts the dental insurance program into law, ensuring that eligible veterans, survivors and dependents of veterans continue to have access to high quality, low-cost dental insurance. Veterans who are eligible to receive their dental care directly from the VA will not be impacted by this program and will continue to receive their care through VA. The text of the legislation is available here. A one-pager on the bill is available here.
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Senator Burr Statement on Senate Passage of Defense Bill WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 85-13. The legislation, which funds our nation’s military and defense priorities, includes several provisions authored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). These provisions will prevent the transfer of Guantanamo Bay Naval Station to Cuba without congressional approval, provides more stability for military families, and protects the military commissary benefit. “Today, the Senate passed needed legislation to support our men and women who serve,” said. Sen. Burr. “This legislation is critical to ensuring that our military can keep America safe. It also includes a needed pay raise for our troops and will prevent the President from handing over one of our important military bases in the region to a communist dictatorship. As Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman, I recognize the daily dangers our servicemen and women experience. I thank them for their service and will continue to push for legislation that will support them.” Read the NDAA here.
06.12.2016	06.12.16 Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Burr on Suspected Terror Attack in Florida WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the suspected terror attack that killed fifty at a nightclub in Orlando, FL: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this morning's horrific attack in Orlando and their loved ones. Law enforcement authorities are investigating the attack as a terrorist incident, and we should allow the investigation to unfold. I am confident the Federal Bureau of Investigation and its law enforcement partners will be able to present a full picture of the suspect, his motives or inspiration, and his background.”
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Hatch, Wyden and Burr Highlight GAO Work on Medicare Audit and Appeals Process WASHINGTON – Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Finance Committee member Richard Burr (R-N.C.) today highlighted a new report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) detailing inefficiencies with the Medicare Audit and Appeals process and noted a bipartisan Finance Committee bill aimed to reform the process. The report details a dramatic increase in appeals at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), resulting in a backlog at the third and fourth levels of appeals where independent hearings are conducted. A bipartisan bill reported out by the Finance Committee, the Audit & Appeal Fairness, Integrity, and Reforms in Medicare (AFIRM) Act of 2015, S. 2368, if enacted into law, would improve many of the deficiencies highlighted by GAO. “Reforming the Medicare audit and appeals system with smart changes will provide better service for patients and responsible protection for health providers,” Hatch said. “Today’s non-partisan report on the appeals process lists a number of issues with the current system and underscores the need to cut the red tape ensnarling the process. Fortunately, the Finance Committee has a bipartisan product in place that does just that. If enacted into law, the AFIRM Act would make needed reforms to the Medicare appeals process and bring increased transparency to the Medicare audit process. That’s a win for taxpayers, patients and health providers.” “The voices of too many patients, providers, and states are going unheard because the gears of the Medicare audit and appeals system have ground to a halt,” Wyden said. “Today’s news is a clear reminder of the ongoing dysfunction plaguing the appeals process, which comes at the expense of those stuck in the system. It’s high time Congress end this bureaucratic water torture by passing the Finance Committee’s bipartisan reform bill.” “Medicare’s audit and appeals processes are clearly not working,” said Senator Burr. “GAO’s report echoes concerns raised by North Carolinians and is the latest wake-up call for the need for commonsense reforms. We must address the audit and appeals challenges so that doctors and hospitals can focus on what’s most important—providing quality care to Americans. I will keep working with my colleagues to fix this broken system.” Additional information on the AFIRM Act can be found here. Findings from the GAO appeals report include: The third appeal level, in which Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) hear the appeal, experienced a 936 percent increase in filed appeals from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2014. A significant portion of the increase in filed appeals at the third level was driven by appeals of hospital and other inpatient stays, which increased from 12,938 to 275,791 appeals (over 2,000 percent). Appeal decisions exceeding statutory time frames at the first four levels generally increased from fiscal years 2010 through 2014, with most frequent delays occurring at the third and fourth levels. For example, the third level issued 96 percent of their decisions after the 90-day statutory time frame in fiscal year 2014. The data systems that the HHS agencies use to monitor the appeals process do not collect other important data that could help identify trends. For example, the third level does not collect in its data system information on whether specific Medicare policies were among the issues that contributed to the appeal decision, which is information that could be used to help identify payment or claim review policies in need of clarification or additional guidance for appeals bodies or appellants. HHS agencies have taken several actions aimed at reducing the total number of Medicare appeals filed and the current appeals backlog. Despite those actions, the backlog of appeals is growing at a rate that outpaces the capacities at the third and fourth levels. HHS efforts do not address inefficiencies regarding the way appeals of certain repetitious claims—such as claims for monthly oxygen equipment rentals—are adjudicated, which is inconsistent with federal internal control standards. GAO recommended that the Secretary of Health and Human Services implement a more efficient way to adjudicate certain repetitive claims, such as by permitting appeals bodies to reopen and resolve appeals. The nonpartisan analysis follows a previous report from the watchdog, released in May, that found CMS’s claims review process lacks reliable cost and savings data for Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs), preventing the agency from having necessary information to evaluate MAC cost effectiveness and performance.
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Op-Ed: On Zika, the Administration Should Use the Tools We Gave Them By U.S. Senator Richard Burr and Rear Admiral Craig Vanderwagen, M.D. (Retired) Recently, former Obama Ebola Czar Ronald Klain opined in the Washington Post that the Administration should set up an entirely new bureaucratic agency to handle biological threats like the Zika virus because current tools are not sufficient to ensure that our government is prepared. In his former role, Mr. Klain saw why we must be vigilant if we are going to be prepared to respond quickly to the next health emergency that threatens our security. But he is wrong in his assertion that the government needs a new bureaucracy to fulfill this role. Given our work to strengthen our medical and public health preparedness and response capabilities, we argue today that the federal government already has the response framework it needs. We just need to make sure these tools are sufficiently funded and ever ready. Mr. Klain is right that we owe the American people effective responses to emerging threats. Zika is here, and the next threat is likely not far behind. We must be prepared for all of these threats, and that requires sustained leadership and funding. But the suggestion to create a new Public Health FEMA is uninformed. We do not need a Public Health FEMA because the framework for responding to serious health threats?—?whether natural or man-made?—?already exists today. This year will mark the tenth anniversary of the enactment of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA), legislation authored by Sen. Burr and Sen. Edward Kennedy. PAHPA applied the lessons we learned from Katrina and 9/11, because our nation must be prepared for what we might face?—?whether Mother Nature surprises us with Zika or terrorists attack us. PAHPA established critical tools, like the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, to accelerate the development of medical countermeasures, such as vaccines and treatments for diseases like Smallpox and Ebola, so that we are better prepared to protect American lives and can respond more nimbly in the midst of an emerging crisis. PAHPA created the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) to implement and coordinate preparation and response. There is no shortage of health care challenges that the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Food and Drug Administration face each day, whether it’s finding a cure for cancer or preventing diabetes. That’s why PAHPA intentionally charged the ASPR with the singular 24/7 focus on being prepared to respond to an Ebola or a Zika. The statute is clear: when a public health emergency arises, ASPR is in charge. Congress also created Project BioShield to spur the development of the medicines we need to protect Americans from identified chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats. BioShield also makes it possible for the government to procure these medicines so we have them at the ready. Gutting the funding for BioShield, as the Administration has proposed, is shortsighted and dangerous. The framework we created 10 years ago is thoughtfully, and lawfully, laid out already. It makes no sense to reinvent the wheel. While we recognize this Administration’s adage “let no crisis go to waste”, we ask that the Administration leverage these well planned structures before trying to start from scratch. Richard Burr is the senior United States Senator from North Carolina and authored the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act Retired Rear Admiral (Dr.) Craig Vanderwagen served as the first HHS Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response Read on Medium.com
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Sens. Burr, King, Nelson Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Fight Spread of Zika Virus WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the Zika virus continuing to spread further into the United States, U.S. Senators Angus King (I-Maine), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), and Richard Burr (R-N.C.) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would help give states and localities the tools they need to fight back. The Strengthening Mosquito Abatement for Safety and Health (SMASH) Act would reauthorize critical public health tools that support states and localities in their mosquito surveillance and control efforts, especially those linked to mosquitos that carry the Zika virus, and improve the nation’s preparedness for Zika and other mosquito-borne threats. “The Zika virus is an epidemic in waiting that threatens the health and welfare of Americans. We have already seen its terrible impact on women and children in other countries, and as public health experts have repeatedly told us, it’s only a matter of time before it becomes a serious problem here in the United States,” Senator King said. “As we move into summer, we need to take immediate action to fight back against the spread of the virus – and states and localities are where the battle can most effectively be fought. After all, Maine has been battling insect-borne diseases like Lyme for decades. So by giving states the tools they need, we can help control the spread of mosquitos and their viruses, and better protect people across the country.” “Until we find a cure, the best way to curb the spread of this virus is to eliminate the insects known to carry it,” Senator Nelson said. “As we head into these warmer summer months, Florida's mosquito population is going to rise, and we need to make sure local mosquito-control units have the resources they need to protect their communities.” “Summer is here and so are the mosquitos that can spread the Zika virus,” said Senator Burr. “We must take the fight to defeat Zika to its source—the mosquitos who spread it. The SMASH Act reauthorizes public health programs that can help communities in North Carolina and across America find and control mosquitos that spread Zika and other serious diseases. I am committed to protecting North Carolinians from Zika and the SMASH Act will help us be better prepared for this and the future threats we may face.” Zika is a mosquito-borne infectious disease that is primarily transmitted to humans by the female yellow fever (A. aegypti) and Asian tiger (A. albopictus) mosquitos. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which recently announced that more than 1,700 cases of the virus have been reported in the U.S. and its territories, has linked the Zika virus to serious health condition, including birth defects in infants such as microcephaly as well as neurological disorders. Despite the very real and imminent threat posed by Zika, the United States remains woefully unprepared to prevent and address the spread of the virus. To help change that, the SMASH Act takes the following three immediate steps to combat the threat of Zika and other mosquito-borne diseases: Strengthens our ability to respond to Zika by reauthorizing and improving mosquito control: The legislation reauthorizes and makes targeted improvements to the lapsed Mosquito Abatement Safety and Health (MASH) Act, which was enacted in 2003 in response to the West Nile virus. It also authorizes increased support for state and local mosquito control work – efforts that are critical for controlling and reducing the mosquitos that spread infectious diseases. Under the bill, up to $130 million in grants will be authorized each year in addition to matching funds to state and local governments. Improves public health preparedness through laboratory research: The legislation reauthorizes the epidemiology laboratory capacity grants under the Public Health Service Act, which support state and local health departments in surveillance for, and response to, infectious diseases, including Zika. Laboratory capacity plays a pivotal role in preparation for and response to public health threats. Inform how we can refine and improve mosquito control: Requires timely study, report, and recommendations by the Government Accountability Office regarding existing mosquito and other vector-borne surveillance and control programs. This analysis will help Congress to identify opportunities to strengthen our public health preparedness programs in partnerships with states and local communities. Ultimately, such analysis will better protect Americans from emerging mosquito-borne infectious diseases. Applying the lessons learned from responses to public health threats is critical for continuing to optimize our nation’s medical and public health preparedness and response. The legislation is endorsed by the National Pest Management Association, the American Mosquito Control Association, and the Entomological Society of America. To read the complete text of the legislation, click HERE.
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Sen. Burr on Democrats’ Attempt to Block Their Own Nominees in Finance Committee Nomination Hearing: Political Grandstanding WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Burr made the following statement on the Senate Finance Committee Democrats’ attempt to block President Obama’s own nominees for the Social Security and Medicare Boards of Trustees in a brazen attempt at political grandstanding: “Today, Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee attempted to block President Obama’s own nominees, Mr. Charles Blahous and Mr. Robert Reischauer, to the Social Security and Medicare Board of Trustees. They seem to have a selectively forgotten that both of these individuals were approved unanimously by Senate Democrats in a Democrat-controlled Senate in 2010, when President Obama nominated them to this post. President Obama has re-nominated both of these men for this position, but today Finance Democrats decided to create a political spectacle where there should be none. The job of the Board of Trustees is simply to monitor and report on the health of Social Security and Medicare, and President Obama’s senior cabinet officials, including Treasury Secretary Lew, Labor Secretary Perez, Health and Human Services’ Secretary Burwell, and Acting Social Security Commissioner Colvin, have already approved and signed these very reports for the last six years. To characterize these public servants as anything other than President Obama’s appointees with a solid record of career service is deplorable. I am disappointed with Committee Democrats for their grandstanding and their corruption of these individuals’ fine records when they know better.” Background: The Social Security and Medicare Boards of Trustees consist of the Secretaries of Treasury, Labor, HHS, the Commissioner of Social Security, and two public trustees, one from each party. One purpose of the boards is to provide yearly reports on the operation of the trust funds and their current and projected status. These nominees are both serving members of the Board and were re-nominated by the President. The reports they produced were signed by four of the highest ranking Obama Administration officials - Treasury Secretary Lew, Labor Secretary Perez, HHS Secretary Burwell, and Acting Social Security Commissioner Colvin. The Board of Trustees has no power to change Social Security or Medicare. That authority is reserved for Congress. Their only job is to monitor and report on the health of Social Security and Medicare. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Finance Committee.
06.07.2016	06.07.16 Sen. Burr Votes to Maintain Commissary Benefit for Military Families in NC, Nationwide WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed an amendment to block commissary privatization by a vote of 70-28. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a cosponsor of the legislation, released the following statement: “This important amendment will ensure that the hundreds of thousands of North Carolina’s military families will continue to enjoy the benefits of the commissary, which these service members have already earned. Congress shouldn’t rush to make changes that could drastically increase the cost of living for our military families. Previous studies have already found that privatization of the commissary system is not a viable option. Our servicemen and women already make great sacrifices and our government should not jeopardize their benefits.”
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Senate Intelligence Committee Advances FY2017 Authorization Bill WASHINGTON –WASHINGTON – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced the committee voted 14-1 to approve the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. The bill’s next step will be consideration before the full Senate. Senator Burr said: “The threats facing our nation continue to grow and this year’s legislation provides the Intelligence Community the resourcing and authorities it needs to keep America safe. The bill also strengthens the Committee’s ability to conduct vigorous oversight over the intelligence activities of our government to ensure they are conducted effectively, efficiently, and within the rule of law.” Senator Feinstein said: “Intelligence authorization bills not only direct funding to where it’s most needed, they also provide a key tool to strengthen intelligence community management and ensure that proper oversight is being done by Congress. After a six-year drought, this would be the eighth consecutive intelligence authorization bill to pass Congress, a record of which I’m very proud. The threat of terrorism remains high, so it’s vital that we provide intelligence agencies with all the resources they need to prevent attacks both at home and abroad.” The bill authorizes funding for the U.S. intelligence community and provides numerous legal authorities and requirements: Promotes the hiring, further education, and retention of employees with science, technology, engineering, or math expertise. Strengthens oversight of intelligence and intelligence-related activities conducted by the Department of Defense. Provides death benefits to employees of the Central Intelligence Agency similar to those authorized for members of the Foreign Service. Provides protections for independent inspectors general of elements of the Intelligence Community. Requires the President to establish an interagency committee to counter Russian active measures. Encourages a greater focus on and utilization of Research and Development within the Intelligence Community.
05.23.2016	05.23.16 Sen. Burr Statement on Passage of Bill to Reauthorize National Sex Offender Registry WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the Senate passage of legislation to reauthorize the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act: “As Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, keeping Americans safe is my number one priority,” said Senator Burr. “Unfortunately, there are dangerous individuals living in our communities who seek to prey on the most vulnerable. Reauthorizing the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act sends a clear message that the Senate is working for the American people. This legislation, which continues the National Sex Offender Registry, ensures that law enforcement agents have the tools they need to keep track of the depraved individuals who prey on children so that they do not have the opportunity to reoffend.” The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act is named for Adam Walsh, a six-year-old boy who was murdered after being abducted from a Florida shopping mall in 1981. The legislation, signed into law by President Bush in 2006, established national standards for sex offender registration and provides information to the public about those convicted of sex offenses. Senator Burr has long fought to use the National Sex Offender Registry as a tool to protect women and children from predators: In 2015, the Congress passed and the President signed into law Senator Burr’s Military Sex Offender Reporting Act, which closed a legal loophole that enabled sex offenders convicted under the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to evade registration with the National Sex Offender Registry. In 2014, Senator Burr authored the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2014, which requires childcare centers that receive federal subsidies to do background checks against the National Sex Offender Registry. Senator Burr also introduced legislation that requires similar background checks for employees working in military child care centers.
05.22.2016	05.22.16 Op-ed: Here’s The Law We Passed To Help Disabled Americans Work Towards The American Dream You may not see it in the headlines, but there is a quiet revolution underway that is dramatically expanding opportunities available to Americans with disabilities. Sara Wolff, a disability advocate and young woman with Down syndrome, recently appeared on Amy Schumer’s late night show to explain how the Achieving a Better Life Experience, or ABLE, Act helps Americans living with disabilities. Her appearance on Comedy Central garnered both praise and awareness from viewers across the country. I’m proud to have worked with Sara and other disability advocates to send the ABLE Act to the President’s desk. Passed in 2014, the ABLE Act is a landmark law that permits states to create tax-free ABLE accounts, modeled after the popular 529 college savings plans. In a time of stark division, the passage of the bipartisan ABLE Act is a hopeful reminder of what is possible in Washington when the cause is right. ABLE accounts ease financial strain on families who have a child with a severe disability by making it possible to save for their child’s costly, lifelong expenses. Before the ABLE Act, people with disabilities were faced with losing access to benefits if they had more than $2,000 to their name. This policy prevented many from reaching their full potential by consigning them to a lifetime of poverty. Every parent wants their child to have a fair shot at realizing the American Dream. That desire is no less for the parents of a child living with a disability. Since the ABLE Act became law two years ago, 34 states have enacted ABLE programs, and the number is growing. In April, a young woman with Down syndrome became the first person in America to open an ABLE account. Some have called ABLE accounts one of the greatest advances in improving the lives of those living with disabilities since the passage of the Americans with Disabilities (ADA) Act in 1990. In my view, ABLE accounts are a milestone in a larger movement to create opportunity and independence for those impacted by disability. To advance this movement, I’m working with a bipartisan group in Congress that includes Senator Bob Casey and Representatives Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) on legislation that builds on the promise of the original ABLE Act, further expanding options for those with disabilities. The first bill, the ABLE to Work Act, promotes work and self-sufficiency by allowing a person with a disability to save more money in an ABLE account if he or she is employed. Currently, annual contributions to ABLE accounts are limited; ABLE to Work allows individuals who have a job and earn income to save additional funds up to the Federal Poverty Level. It also makes them eligible for the Saver’s Credit, an existing federal tax credit for retirement savings, when they put earnings into an ABLE account. The ability to support yourself through work is an essential element of the American dream. Many with disabilities are able to work, but our current one-size-fits-all system punishes those who do by making them ineligible for benefits they need to survive and get medical care. Work is about more than financial support; it’s about participating in society and building a sense of purpose. It’s wrong to exclude members of our community from the benefits of work. Another bill, the ABLE Financial Planning Act, permits families to rollover savings from a 529 college savings plan into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before birth, only to learn that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child becomes severely disabled in a tragic accident. In such instances, families have funds trapped in a 529 that could help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If funds are withdrawn for anything other than college expenses, steep tax penalties kick in. The ABLE Financial Planning Act solves this problem. Finally, the ABLE Age Adjustment Act increases the age limit for ABLE accounts from 26 to 46. Many debilitating conditions strike later in life, including multiple sclerosis, Lou Gehrig’s disease, or paralysis due to an accident. Increasing the age limit for ABLE accounts allows more individuals to save to cover the costs of short, medium and long-term care. Giving disabled Americans the tools to lift themselves out of poverty isn’t a Republican or Democrat issue; it’s the right thing to do. For too long, our society has failed to appreciate the abilities and unique gifts of Americans with disabilities. Through employment, individuals with disabilities enrich not only their own lives, but the lives of everyone around them. As it stands, there are too many barriers that prevent disabled Americans from realizing the full potential of their God-given gifts. We must keep fighting to tear those walls down. This op-ed appeared in the Independent Journal.
05.19.2016	05.19.16 Burr and Tillis on Today’s Vote Funding $297 Million in Critical Modernization Projects at NC Military Bases WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate approved the military construction package, Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, by a vote of 89 to 8. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted for the legislation, which funds projects in North Carolina at their Senate requested levels. North Carolina bases, including Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station, and Fort Bragg, have the funding for projects totaling $297.140 million. “Maintaining and enhancing our military bases across the state is paramount for military readiness in North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “I’m proud of North Carolina’s commitment to keeping America safe and I will ensure that our troops have top notch facilities for training. Keeping our country safe is my top priority and improving military facilities keeps America at the forefront of national security.” “North Carolina is blessed to be home to the largest military installation and the largest Marine Corps base in the nation,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan legislation passed today will advance many key priorities and projects for North Carolina’s military installations, which in turn will help ensure that our brave men and women in uniform have the training and infrastructure they need to defend America at a moment’s notice.” FY17 MILCON projects proposed in the bill package from today’s vote for North Carolina: Camp Lejeune - $18.482 Million for Range Facilities Safety Improvements Camp Lejeune - $31 Million for Dental Clinic Replacement Cherry Point MCAS - $12.515 Million for Central Heating Plant Conversion Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $29.6 Million for C-17 Corrosion Control/Fuel Cell Hangar Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $21 Million for C-17 Type III Hydrant Refueling System Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $5.7 Million for KC-46A ADAL Building for AGE/Fuselage Training Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $2.25 Million KC-46A ADAL Squadron Operations Facilities Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $90 Million for KC-46A Two Bay Corrosion/Fuel Cell Hangar Fort Bragg - $10.905 Million for SOF Combat Medical Training Facility Fort Bragg - $21.420 Million for SOF Parachute Rigging Facility Fort Bragg - $30.670 Million for SOF Special Tactics Facility (Phase 3) Fort Bragg - $23.598 Million for SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility Total for North Carolina - $297.140 Million
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Sen. Burr: We Must Combat Zika, Other Threats, Now WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) spoke about the need to take appropriate steps to combat the spread of the Zika virus in the United States and abroad. Senator Burr authored the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act almost a decade ago to ensure our nation would be better prepared for the range of serious public health threats, such as Zika and Ebola. Senator Burr supports the bipartisan Zika amendment from Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Patty Murray (D-WA), because it will help protect the women, babies, and families threatened by the Zika virus in North Carolina and across the United States. The amendment allocates $1.1 billion in emergency funding to combat Zika, a serious public health threat that has been linked with birth defects and neurological conditions and is spread by mosquitos that can be found in North Carolina. WATCH Sen. Burr’s Speech here Senator Burr noted today: “I believe we must confront the threat of Zika with the resources this tragic virus demands and the compassion the women and children threatened by it deserve. The Blunt-Murray amendment does both and I look forward to supporting it and continuing to fight to ensure Americans are protected from Zika and all other threats we may face.” He continued: “The next threat may be naturally-occurring or it may be the result of a deliberate attack. And we need to be prepared for all of them. After 9/11, Congress established the BioShield Special Reserve Fund to encourage the development of countermeasures that meet specific requirements for use against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents that the Department of Homeland Security has determined pose a material threat against the United States population sufficient to affect national security. These are threats like anthrax, Ebola, hemorrhagic fever, and small pox. And like Zika, the American people expect us to be ready to respond to these threats.” Senator Burr also addressed his concerns with legislation presented for a cloture vote from Sens. Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Bill Nelson (D-FL): “Unfortunately, I’m not going to be able to support the amendment offered by my colleagues from Florida because it would gut BioShield. The President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget proposed decreasing BioShield’s funding by $160 million, and then weeks later, the Administration proposed raiding it. These actions do not instill confidence that the federal government is prepared to handle these threats and will be a committed partner in these public-private partnerships—partnerships that are critical for defeating Zika. I want to work with the Administration to improve the nation’s biodefense preparedness and response, especially with regard to emerging, infectious diseases, but gutting BioShield is not the answer.” Prepared remarks are available below: I rise today to speak on the importance of fighting the Zika virus and the urgency of being prepared for the full range of threats we may face, whether naturally-occurring, like Zika, or man-made. We still do not have answers to all of the questions surrounding Zika, but we do know this: Zika is a very serious public health threat, and we need to act. That’s why I support the Blunt-Murray amendment to bolster our nation’s response to it. The CDC has indicated that the mosquitos responsible for spreading the virus could be found in a significant portion of the United States, including my state of North Carolina. What makes this virus particularly troubling is its potential to cause tragic birth defects in babies born to mother’s infected with Zika. The virus has also been linked with serious neurological conditions. The sad news of reported cases of microcephaly is an urgent call to us that this virus is a very serious threat to pregnant women and their unborn children, and we need to take action to help these women deliver healthy babies and to stop the spread of this virus. It is concerning that we do not have drugs to prevent or treat Zika, and we will likely not have them until after the summer when mosquitos are present in many of our communities back home. Zika underscores the importance of supporting a flexible, all-hazards preparedness and response framework under the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act—legislation I authored almost a decade ago to ensure our nation would be better prepared for the range of serious public health threats we might face, like Zika. It also underscores that Mother Nature always has the potential to throw us a curveball—this time in the form of a virus with the potential for devastating birth defects, transmitted through mosquito bites. This mosquito-borne virus also highlights why we must be prepared with the appropriate tools to protect the health of Americans for situations in which infectious diseases are moving from animals to humans. Thankfully, because of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, we have been better prepared to respond to Zika and other recent threats. But this work is never done, and we must always remain vigilant when it comes to medical and public health preparedness and response. The next threat may be naturally-occurring or it may be the result of a deliberate attack. And we need to be prepared for all of them. After 9/11, Congress established the BioShield Special Reserve Fund to encourage the development of countermeasures that meet specific requirements for use against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents that the Department of Homeland Security has determined pose a material threat against the United States population sufficient to affect national security. These are threats like anthrax, Ebola, hemorrhagic fever, and small pox. And like Zika, the American people expect us to be ready to respond to these threats. Unfortunately, I’m not going to be able to support the amendment offered by my colleagues from Florida because it would gut BioShield. The President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget proposed decreasing BioShield’s funding by $160 million, and then weeks later, the Administration proposed raiding it. These actions do not instill confidence that the federal government is prepared to handle these threats and will be a committed partner in these public-private partnerships—partnerships that are critical for defeating Zika. I want to work with the Administration to improve the nation’s biodefense preparedness and response, especially with regard to emerging, infectious diseases, but gutting BioShield is not the answer. I also want to take a moment and talk about the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA as I like to call it. BARDA is helping innovators navigate the development “valley of death” by supporting advanced research and development of medical countermeasures and spurring innovation, like platform technologies, to ensure that we are as nimble as possible when confronted with a serious public health threat. BARDA is on the front lines of combatting Zika because it is the linchpin in advancing medical countermeasures. It is critical that we support BARDA in fulfilling its mission. The Blue Ribbon Study Panel on Biodefense recently issued a report that found that there are “serious gaps and inadequacies that continue to leave the Nation vulnerable to threats from nature and terrorists alike.” We cannot lose our focus on preparing for the threats we have identified. By strengthening our work in this area we will be better prepared for the next naturally-occurring threat. Regardless of the threat, we know the American people expect us to protect them from it and be prepared to combat it. Today this threat is Zika. Two years ago it was Ebola. The years before that, novel flu strains. We don’t know what the next threat will be or how it will arise, but by staying focused on identified threats and being vigilant to finish what we start, we will be better prepared for the next threat, whether naturally-occurring or the result of a deliberate attack. I strongly support the Blunt-Murray Zika amendment because it will help protect the women, babies, and families threatened by the Zika virus in North Carolina and across the United States. It will also ensure that we continue to make progress against the full range of threats we may face. I believe we must confront the threat of Zika with the resources this tragic virus demands and the compassion the women and children threatened by it deserve. The Blunt-Murray amendment does both and I look forward to supporting it and continuing to fight to ensure Americans are protected from Zika and all other threats we may face.
05.11.2016	05.11.16 Education Committee Chairman Praises Burr Role to Secure Lowest Student Loan Rates in over a Decade WASHINGTON –Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) garnered praise from the Senate Committee on Health Education Labor and Pensions Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) for his work on the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, which was signed into law in 2013 and made possible today’s news that student loan rates dropped to 3.76 percent, down from last year’s rate of 4.29 percent. This saves North Carolina students and families as much as $1.1 billion. Chairman Alexander praised the bipartisan team of Senators Burr, Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Angus King (I-ME) from the Senate floor. “Today, because of what we did in a bipartisan fashion passed by this body, parents and students have saved $46 billion,” said Senator Burr in his speech. “And in North Carolina this next year it's projected they will save another $1.1 billion in interest payments on their student loans. This is a day that Congress can be proud of because we've done something good for the American people.” “I want to congratulate the Senator from North Carolina,” said Chairman Alexander in his floor speech. “The decision that Senator Burr and others made persuading this Congress, working with the President in 2013 to take the student loan interest rate out of politics and tie it to a certain rate, today reduces the rate by one half percent for nearly 6.4 million students and saves millions and millions and millions of dollars on student loans.” Alexander continued: “A lot of people can talk. Some people can get a result. The senator from North Carolina got a result…. So congratulations to Senator Burr for saving millions of dollars to students who are taking out student loans” WATCH Sen. Burr’s Speech here
05.11.2016	05.11.16 Sen. Burr on Today’s Student Loan Rate Decrease: Saves $1.08 Billion for North Carolina Families and Students Alone WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on today’s announcement that federal student loan interest rates are set to drop for the upcoming school year to 3.76 percent, down from last year’s rate of 4.29 percent, representing the best rates for students in 12 years: “This is great news for students in North Carolina and across the country. North Carolina students and families alone are set to save over a billion dollars. This additional reduction in student loan rates is proof that the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act is working. I fought hard for this legislation because it was the right choice for America’s student borrowers. Today’s announcement that student loan interest rates are dropping from 4.29 percent to 3.76 percent is a clear sign that the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act is serving the best interest of students.” Senator Burr and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act which was signed into law in August of 2013. Last year, as a result of the Act, student loan rates dropped from 4.66 percent to 4.29 percent. This rate reduction saved student borrowers $36 billion over the past 3 years. With today’s rate reduction, students and their families are set to save another $10 billion nationally. Last month, Senator Burr introduced the Boost Saving for College Act. This bipartisan legislation would provide a tax credit to low-income and middle-income families who might not ordinarily save for college, encourage employers to match the college savings of their employees, allow savings that aren’t needed for college to be rolled over into a Roth IRA for retirement, and enable families with a disabled child to rollover a 529 account into an ABLE account. Sen. Burr also joined with Senator Angus King (I-ME) to write the Repay Act, which simplifies the complex maze of federal student loan repayment programs by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into two plans: a fixed repayment plan, based on a 10-year period, and a single, simplified income-driven repayment option. The Repay Act received a unanimous vote of 97-0 in the Senate last spring.
05.01.2016	05.01.16 Op-Ed: Richard Burr: Fixing veterans' health care In 2014, when I was serving as the ranking member of Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, Congress passed the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act. This law created the new Veterans Choice Program, which allows veterans who face long waits or driving distances to see a doctor of their choice outside of the federal VA health care system. This legislation was in direct response to the disturbing revelation that many veterans who had bravely served our country and survived combat were dying as they waited for medical care from the VA. We recognized at the time that the only way to make certain that veterans got the care they needed when they needed it was to enable veterans to see a doctor outside the VA if they were on a waitlist or lived far away from a VA facility. I was proud to help author the Veterans Choice Program, and I know that program has helped many veterans get health care. Yet nearly two years later, veterans are still experiencing serious frustrations and delays in getting medical care and treatments. In October, a CNN reporter found that appointment wait times at the VA were not getting better, even after billions of dollars were injected into the VA health care system to hire more doctors. More recently, Charlotte's WBTV reported that a local veteran had waited more than a year to receive a referral from the VA to see a spine specialist. This veteran was finally given a referral, but when he called to make a second appointment, he was told the doctor was no longer accepting veterans under the Choice Program. Why? Because the VA had failed to pay the doctor for seeing veterans. This is one example of thousands across the country, and it's why I introduced the Veterans Choice Improvement Act. We have to get it right for our veterans. We can start by making the process less confusing for veterans to get care from an outside doctor. Currently, the VA allows veterans to see private doctors through a number of programs - the Choice Program is just one of them. These programs differ in substantial ways, and not all of them are permanent programs. This bureaucratic patchwork is confusing to the veteran, confusing to doctors and hospitals, and oftentimes, confusing to the VA itself. My legislation would consolidate these programs into one simple program, the Veterans Choice Program, which veterans can count on. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act also makes sure the VA pays doctors so that veterans aren't turned away at the door. In North Carolina, some hospitals have stopped seeing veterans under the Choice Program because the VA has consistently failed to pay the bill for services rendered. My legislation solves this problem by setting strict standards for how long the VA has to pay a claim, and if the VA fails to meet it, interest begins to accrue. The legislation also requires the VA to clearly tell medical providers what information a claim must contain for quick reimbursement, and it calls on the VA establish an electronic system to process claims from outside providers. The VA has also had significant accounting problems as more veterans have received care outside the VA. In fact, these accounting failures precipitated a funding crisis last summer that almost forced the closure of VA hospitals. To prevent future funding emergencies, the Veterans Choice Improvement Act will fund health care for the Choice Program through a dedicated account in the budget for non-VA care, and that account will be funded a year in advance. Finally, I have heard countless stories of veterans being forced to travel long distances to get to a VA facility for minor medical issues. There is no reason why veterans in some parts of the country are driving four hours each way just to get fitted for a hearing aid when there is a private doctor down the road who could easily do the same thing. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act will alleviate this burden by allowing the VA to enter into standing agreements with local doctors and hospitals to provide such services to veterans. This just makes common sense. Making good on the promises we made to our veterans is not a partisan issue, and it should always be above the politics of the moment. Veterans are still facing a health care crisis in this country, and the Veterans Choice Improvement Act will help veterans across America get the best health care we have to offer, without having to wait long or drive far. Regardless of whether a veteran lives in an urban center or a rural town, this legislation will help them. Congress should pass this bill, and the president should sign it. U.S. Sen. Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican, is the former ranking member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. This op-ed appeared in the Fayetteville Observer.
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Sens Burr, Nelson, and Tillis Fight for Health Care for Camp Lejeune Toxic Exposure Victims WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced S. 2888, The Janey Ensminger Act of 2016, which requires the VA to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune. The legislation also requires that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, review all relevant scientific literature every three years to determine if sufficient or modest causal links have been found between toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune and additional diseases and conditions. This will ensure that veterans and their families will not have to wait to get medical care as researchers learn more about the long-term health consequences of the toxins found in the water at Camp Lejeune. The legislation is named for Janey Ensminger, the daughter of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, who was born on base at Camp Lejeune and died as a result of exposure to toxic chemicals. “The military negligently poisoned these service members and their families,” said Sen. Burr. “The VA has consistently denied the clear scientific links between exposure to toxins at Camp Lejeune and diseases like Parkinson’s, cardiac malformations and rectal cancer. The Janey Ensminger Act puts a stop to VA denials and will ensure that these men and women who served our nation get the care they need. These veterans should not have to fight the VA every time that government researchers find a link between a disease and the toxins that were in their drinking water.” “As I’ve said before, I believe the VA should be giving our veterans who were stationed at Camp Lejeune the benefit of the doubt – especially if ATSDR finds a link between their illness and the toxins they were exposed to while stationed there,” said Sen. Nelson. “The Janey Ensminger Act ensures that veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune won’t have to wait to receive care merely because the VA isn’t using the most up to date scientific data and research available,” said Sen. Tillis. “This legislation prioritizes science over politics and trusts the federal government’s scientific experts outside of the VA with decisions about medical coverage, rather than VA and OMB bureaucrats. I am grateful for the leadership and tireless dedication of Jerry Ensminger and Senator Burr on behalf of Camp Lejeune veterans and their loved ones.” "This bill, when passed, will finally place the responsibility of determining what if any adverse health effects would be expected from the exposure to a whole host of chemicals that were present in Camp Lejeune's tap water in the hands of the scientific experts of ATSDR who were created and mandated by Congress to do so,” said Master Sergeant Ensminger. “It will no longer be left to the personal preferences or the untrained staff of the VA to make these determinations on their own. I want to thank both North Carolina Senators Burr and Tillis for their steadfast commitment to our plight and seeking justice for the nearly one million Camp Lejeune veterans, their families, and the thousands of loyal civilian employees who were unwittingly exposed to this negligence by their own leaders." Master Sergeant Ensminger has been a tireless advocate for members of the military and their families that were harmed by toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune. In September 2015, Ensminger testified before the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. WATCH: Ensminger: Janey is but one example of the multitude of tragedies suffered by former Camp Lejeune families who were exposed by this negligence. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This law, authored by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. However, the VA has resisted providing health care benefits to many of these veterans and their family members because it has not recognized the scientific links between the exposure to toxins and certain diseases that have been found by government researchers at the ATSDR. Text of the Janey Ensminger Act of 2016 is available here. A one pager on the legislation is available here.
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Senator Burr Statement on the White House’s Nomination for the Eastern District Judge WASHINGTON –Today, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the announcement that the President nominated Patricia Timmons-Goodson to serve on the Eastern District Court of North Carolina: “Several years ago, when this seat first became vacant, I worked with former Senator Kay Hagan, other interested members of Congress, and the President to fill the vacancy in the Eastern District. After the agreement had been made, the President declined to honor it. I remain disappointed that the President broke our agreement. I’m even more disappointed that the White House has chosen to double down by making a brazenly political nomination, and without consulting either of North Carolina’s Senators. This is particularly discouraging considering my long history of working with and supporting President Obama’s nominations in North Carolina. I supported, and in some cases even recommended for consideration, the President’s nominations of Judge Loretta Biggs, Judge Catherine Eagles, Judge James Wynn, Judge Max Cogburn and Judge Albert Diaz. I have always worked in good faith with the White House on North Carolina nominees, and expect the same respect in return. It is regrettable that the White House has chosen a different path. This transparent attempt to turn the Eastern District vacancy into an election season stunt is unacceptable, and I will not support a new nomination in North Carolina from this Administration.”
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Sens. Burr, Casey Introduce Bill to Make College More Affordable by Helping Families Save WASHINGTON –Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the Boost Saving for College Act, which will enhance 529 college savings accounts to help more American families save for college. This legislation would provide a tax credit to low-income and middle-income families who might not ordinarily save for college, encourage employers to match the college savings of their employees, allow savings that aren’t needed for college to be rolled over into a Roth IRA for retirement, and enable families with a disabled child to rollover a 529 account into an ABLE account. “College savings accounts are incredibly popular because they are a smart way for families to save for a child’s future,” said Senator Burr. “In the past few years, I have advocated for making college more affordable, including getting legislation signed into law that has saved student loan borrowers $36 billion. The Boost Act is a commonsense bill that will expand ways for families to save and prepare for college so that they don’t have to rely so much on debt to get a college education.” "Saving for a college education is a substantial challenge for families that Congress should be working to make easier," said Senator Casey. "A college education is the surest ticket to the middle class and a family sustaining income. This bill will help more families save and ensure that more young Americans have a fair shot to attend college." College Savings Plans Network (CSPN) and the State Education Assistance Authority (SEAA) have endorsed the bill. In 2013, Senator Burr authored the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, which was signed into law and saved borrowers $36 billion over the last three school years. College savings accounts, also known as “529 accounts,” enable families to better prepare financially for the cost of sending their child to college. These accounts allow families to save tax-free, and they can use these savings to pay for higher education expenses, such as tuition, fees, books, room and board, and computer equipment. As the cost of higher education continues to rise, 529 accounts have become an increasingly popular and necessary tool for families to save for college so that they do not have to rely so heavily on student loans. Today, the average cost of obtaining a degree from a two-year institution is more than $19,000, and it is nearly $100,000 from a four-year university. The Boost Saving for College Act would make 529 accounts a more attractive option by adding some significant enhancements, such as: Letting low- and middle-income families take advantage of the Saver’s Credit for the savings they put away for college. Low- and middle-income families can currently use the Saver’s Credit for contributions to retirement accounts. This bill would extend this credit to contributions an individual or family makes to a 529 account, boosting the savings they can put away for college. The Saver’s Credit is a nonrefundable tax credit that provides a savings match of as much as $1,000 for single filers and $2,000 for joint filers for retirement. The Boost Act would allow this savings match for 529 accounts. The amount of the credit depends on how much the household puts in the account as well as their income. For 2016, the Saver’s Credit is limited to those with incomes at or below $30,750 single, $46,125 head of household, and $61,500 joint, and is indexed to inflation. Encouraging employers to match the college savings of their employees. Today, many employers match their employees’ contributions to retirement. The Boost Act would allow employers to offer the same benefit to 529 accounts, with an annual match of up to $1,000. This employer match would be excluded from the employee’s gross income, which means the worker won’t be taxed when their employer makes a contribution to a 529 account owned by the employee or spouse. The beneficiary of the 529 account may be the employee, their spouse or their dependent. Allowing savings that aren’t needed for college to be rolled over into a Roth IRA. Perhaps a child decides not to go to college, or maybe the child earns enough in scholarships that they do not need all their college savings. Under current law, those families would be penalized for withdrawing the leftover funds. The Boost Act would allow those families to roll over such savings into a Roth IRA. In order to do so, the 529 account must have been open for at least 10 years. The 529 could be rolled over into the Roth IRA of the 529 account owner or their beneficiary. Enabling families with a disabled child to rollover a 529 Account into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before their child is even born, only to learn later that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child is in a tragic accident and becomes severely disabled. In such instances, these families have funds trapped in a 529 that they could use to help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If they withdraw the funds for anything other than college expenses, they face taxes on their withdrawals. The Boost Act would help these families by allowing them to rollover the funds in their 529 account to a 529A, or ABLE, account for their disabled child. ABLE accounts allow families to save for a disabled child’s future expenses in a tax-favored way. Text of the legislation is available here.
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Sen. Burr Introduces Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act WASHINGTON-- On Tuesday a bipartisan, bicameral coalition introduced the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016. The House (H.R.5067) bill is led by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Rep. John Conyers (D-MI). The Senate (S.2854) companion bill is led by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), Sen. Claire McCaskill, (D-MO), Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO). WATCH: Sen. Burr delivers floor speech on the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act BACKGROUND Before the passage of major civil rights legislation in the 1960s, hundreds of racially suspicious crimes were committed in this country, and few attempts to prosecute them were ever pursued. Tuskegee Institute once kept a record of verified lynchings in the United States from 1877 to 1950. The institute documented that nearly 4000 mainly unprosecuted civil rights crimes occurred during that period. Many American families continue to pass down stories of loss and disappearance even today without knowing the truth about what actually happened to their loved ones. PRIMARY GOALS OF THE BILL The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act represents a critical opportunity to right these wrongs committed, primarily against African Americans, but also against people of diverse backgrounds. In some cases, individuals still remain who were witnesses to these crimes or who can help provide evidence regarding these incidents. This bill reauthorizes and updates the original legislation that was signed into law in 2008. It seeks to respond to the concerns of victims' family members and strengthen collaboration between the Justice Department, the FBI, State and local law enforcement, and advocates to pursue these cold cases. There is a collective goal to seek the truth about this long-standing tragedies and hold the perpetrators and orchestrators of these atrocities accountable. This reauthorization also seeks to respond to the concerns of advocates regarding the implementation of the original legislation. STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT "It was Dr. King who said the time is always right to do what is right. We can never heal from the injuries of the past by sweeping hundreds of crimes under the rug. We have an obligation, a mission, and a mandate to continue the effort required to wash away these stains on our democracy. I am glad to say this bill incorporates the advice and counsel of numerous individuals and groups who are also dedicated to the pursuit of justice in these matters. Their tireless efforts have helped us improve this legislation so that more work can be done to end the pain, doubt and the inconsistent application of justice that has languished unattended for decades. I thank my colleagues for their support as original sponsors and call on all members who are interested in the fairness and true equality to join us in the passage of this legislation." Rep. John Lewis “There are many evils of our past that we cannot right, but we can make sure that the truth about these injustices does come to light. I am honored to join Congressman Lewis to introduce this legislation to make it possible for the FBI and the Justice Department to continue their important work to investigate these cold cases and bring the perpetrators of racially-motivated crimes to justice. Uncovering and confronting the truth about these crimes is essential to ensuring that no one is above the law and that all Americans are worthy of the protection of our laws.” Sen. Richard Burr “Now’s not the time to let up on our efforts to investigate and prosecute these heinous, racially-motivated murders—the loved ones and communities affected by this violence deserve justice, no matter how long it’s been denied to them,” said McCaskill, a former Jackson County Prosecutor. “Too many civil rights-era cases remain unsolved, so we should keep these vital tools available so federal investigators can keep working toward long overdue justice.” Sen. Claire McCaskill “Too many families suffer from the unsolved murders of their loved ones during the civil rights era without receiving justice. The way to best serve these families is to provide our Federal government with the tools it needs to investigate these unsolved crimes, and to hopefully, bring some sense of closure for these families. I thank Congressman Lewis for his tireless work on behalf of the families of these victims of unsolved murders from the civil rights era and I am proud to stand with him on this effort.” Sen. Patrick Leahy “The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act sets out to investigate racially-motivated murders. Sadly, there is still more work to be done and it’s important that we reauthorize this bill so that the FBI and DOJ can continue investigating unsolved crimes.” Sen. Roy Blunt “I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of the Emmett Till Reauthorization Act. Passage of this bipartisan legislation will provide for a sustained, well-coordinated effort to investigate and prosecute unsolved civil rights-era crimes. There are hundreds of cold cases from the civil rights era that have never been solved and it is my hope that we are able to bring justice to the victims’ families.” Rep. Sensenbrenner "As we work to address current questions about racial violence and civil rights, we should be mindful of our history and why so many in the African-American community raise the issue of black live matter. Passage of the Emmett Till Act represented a commitment to resolving the unanswered questions from one of the darkest periods in modern American history. Reauthorization represents a further investment in our history and will allow the Department of Justice to resolve remaining issues and set to rest the ghost of the civil rights era." Rep. John Conyers MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE LEGISLATION This bill requires the Department of Justice and FBI to consult with civil rights organizations, universities, and other entities that have also been gathering evidence in these cold cases and allows such organizations to apply for grants to support their investigations; Provides clearer direction and improved coordination between federal, state, and local law enforcement and the activists, advocates, and academics working on these issues; Establishes a public-private joint taskforce to coordinate the investigations; Strengthens the Department of Justice’s reporting requirements; Eliminates the pre-1969 time limitation on investigations; Eliminates the sunset provision in the original bill; Requires the Department of Justice to review specific closed cases that warrant further investigation; Maintains the previous funding levels; Establishes the process to reopen, review, and update the public on the cases previously closed and explain the outcome of cases referred to the Department of the Justice; and Clarifies the law’s intent. Sens. Burr and Leahy wrote a letter to the Appropriations Committee requesting funding for the program. The letter is available here. A one-pager on the bill is available here.
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Op-ed: Encryption Without Tears By Senators Richard Burr and Dianne Feinstein In an increasingly digital world, strong encryption of devices is needed to prevent criminal misuse of data. But technological innovation must not mean placing individuals or companies above the law. Over the past year the two of us have explored the challenges associated with criminal and terrorist use of encrypted communications. Two examples illustrate why the status quo is unacceptable. The first is the Islamic State-inspired terrorist attack last year in Garland, Texas. FBI Director Jim Comey said the attackers “exchanged 109 messages with an overseas terrorist” the morning of the shooting, but the FBI cannot access those messages to determine the exact role of Islamic State in the shooting and how to help prevent future attacks. Another case involves the murder of Brittney Mills, eight months pregnant when she was shot to death last year on her front porch in Baton Rouge, La. Her unborn son was delivered at the hospital but died a week later. Even though police found Brittney’s smartphone next to her body, the murder remains unsolved and law enforcement cannot access any information on her encrypted phone, including an electronic diary Brittney kept. These are two of the many cases where law enforcement is unable to fully investigate terrorism or criminal activities. In fact, today the FBI is unable to gain access to data on many of the mobile devices they obtain that are password protected. In response to these cases, we are circulating a proposal in the Senate to ensure that technology does not undermine the justice system. The draft proposal requires a person or a company—when served with a court order—to provide law enforcement with information (in readable form) or appropriate technical assistance that is responsive to the judicial request. This will enable law enforcement to conduct investigations using the communications involved in criminal and terrorist activities. Our draft bill wouldn’t impose a one-size-fits-all solution on all covered entities, which include device manufacturers, software developers and electronic-communications services. The proposal doesn’t define the technological solutions or tell businesses how to solve the problem. It provides compensation for reasonable costs that businesses may incur when complying with a court order. We want to provide businesses with full discretion to decide how best to design and build systems that maintain data security while at the same time complying with court orders. Critics in the industry suggest that providing access to encrypted data will weaken their systems. But these same companies, for business purposes, already maintain and have access to vast amounts of encrypted personal information, such as credit-card numbers, bank-account information and purchase histories. We are not asking companies to provide law enforcement with unfettered access to encrypted data. We aren’t even asking companies to tell the government how they gain access to this encrypted data. All we are doing is asking companies to find a way to keep their data secure while also cooperating with law enforcement in terrorism and criminal investigations. President Obama said earlier this year, “You cannot take an absolutist view on this.” We agree—and believe that strong data security and compliance with the justice system don’t have to be mutually exclusive. American technology companies have done some amazing things that are the envy of the world. We think that finding a way to achieve both goals simultaneously is not beyond their capabilities. Sen. Burr (R., N.C.) is the chairman, and Sen. Feinstein (D., Calif.) the vice chairman, of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. This op-ed was published by the Wall Street Journal.
04.22.2016	04.22.16 Senator Burr Wins Five Major Legislative Victories This Week WASHINGTON – This week, the Senate advanced five key pieces of legislation sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). An amendment protecting the Corolla Wild Horses passed by voice vote and a provision permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which was included in the Energy Policy Modernization Act, was passed by an 85-12 vote. Three Burr amendments were included in legislation passed by the Finance Committee on Wednesday: two amendments that will clean up misconduct at the Internal Revenue Service and a provision that returns funds to veterans whose disability severance payments were improperly taxed. Senate Floor Corolla Wild Horse Protection Act – This amendment, cosponsored by Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC), will take actions to ensure the genetic diversity and viability of the herd so that these horses are not lost forever. The amendment also allows the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to manage the herd at no cost to taxpayers. The amendment passed by voice vote, but Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) did vote neigh. WATCH: Burr: If we don’t act now we could lose these horses Land and Water Conservation Fund – Permanent reauthorization for this fund passed the Senate as part of the Energy Policy Modernization Act. Senator Burr has led the charge to bring awareness to the importance of LWCF and to ensure that this fund is renewed. Established in 1964, the LWCF is one of America’s most successful federal conservation programs, conserving irreplaceable lands and improving outdoor recreation opportunities throughout the nation. It requires no taxpayer funding. When the LWCF authorization expired in September, Senator Burr fought for a three year fix until a permanent authorization could be paired with the Energy bill. Conservation advocates cite Burr’s unwavering commitment and leadership to LWCF as a key factor in this success. In addition to delivering remarks on the floor, Burr has penned op-eds in the Charlotte Observer and Greensboro News and Record on the need to protect North Carolina’s natural treasures by reauthorizing LWCF. Finance Committee In addition to the two items that passed on the Senate floor, three Burr amendments were included in the Tax Payer Protection Act that passed the Finance Committee on Wednesday. Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2016 – This bill addresses unsettling evidence uncovered by the Treasury Watchdog that the IRS repeatedly rehired employees who were fired for poor conduct and performance after a lengthy examination process. This legislation will require the IRS to stop this practice. The watchdog’s report even found that an employee who had “Do Not Rehire” stamped on their personnel file was rehired. In February, Sen. Burr penned an op-ed and confronted IRS Commissioner Koskinen about this disturbing practice. IRS Accountability Act of 2015 – This legislation will keep IRS bureaucrats accountable to the American people by giving the IRS Commissioner new authority to fire senior executives who have failed in their performance or committed misconduct. This legislation is based on a law Congress passed in the wake of the VA health care scandal that enables the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to fire senior executives for misconduct. Combat-Injured Veterans Tax Fairness Act of 2016 – Veterans who suffer combat-related injuries and are separated from the military receive a one-time disability severance payment that is supposed to be tax-free. However, in many cases, the Department of Defense has improperly withheld taxes from these payments. Veterans are typically unaware that their benefits were reduced as a result of DoD’s actions. This amendment instructs DoD to identify veterans who have been improperly taxed and work with the Department of Treasury to return the money.
04.21.2016	04.21.16 BILL TO PROTECT COMBAT-INJURED VETERANS’ SEVERANCE PAYMENTS PASSES SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE Since 1991, DoD has improperly withheld taxes from severance payments of up to 14,000 veterans separated from service due to combat injury WASHINGTON – Legislation to ensure that veterans who suffer service-ending combat-related injuries are not improperly taxed on the severance payment they receive from the Department of Defense (DoD) has passed the Senate Finance Committee. Under federal law, veterans who suffer combat-related injuries and who are separated from the military are not supposed to be taxed on the one-time lump sum disability severance payment they receive from DoD. Unfortunately, taxes on combat-related disability severance payments have nonetheless been withheld from qualifying veterans for a number of years, in part due to the limitations of DoD’s automated payment system. Veterans are typically unaware that their benefits were improperly reduced as a result of DoD’s actions. To correct this problem, last month Sens. Mark Warner (D-VA) and John Boozman (R-AR) introduced S. 1712, Combat-Injured Veterans Tax Fairness Act of 2016. The legislation instructs DoD to identify veterans who have been separated from service for combat-related injuries and had taxes withheld from their severance payments. It requires DoD to determine how much the veterans are owed and, in conjunction with the Treasury Department, allow veterans who have been improperly taxed to recover the withheld amounts. The bill language was added as an amendment to the Taxpayer Protection Act of 2016, which passed the Senate Finance Committee on Wednesday evening. The amendment was sponsored by Finance Committee members Sen. Warner, Sen. Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC). “The intent of Congress, federal law and Department of Defense policy are all very clear: Service members separated as a result of combat-related injuries are not to have their severance pay taxed,” said Sen. Warner. “It’s pretty unbelievable that Congress has to act in order to ensure that the law is followed and that veterans who have already sacrificed so much are able to recover every penny they’re owed, but I’m pleased that my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee agreed that we need to make this right.” “Senator Warner and I introduced this bill to right a wrong at the Department of Defense. It is apparent that some combat-injured veterans have been deprived of their full severance upon separation by DOD despite federal law prohibiting this action. It is unjust and needs to be corrected. I am pleased that the Finance Committee cleared our bill today as that puts us one step closer to ensuring that our nation’s wounded veterans receive the benefits they are rightfully due,” Sen. Boozman said. “Our military men and women sacrifice so much in service to our country. It is unconscionable that after a combat-related injury ends their military service they would have to pay taxes on their severance pay,” said Sen. Bennet. “This bill makes a commonsense change to ensure this never happens again and also allows veterans to recover the taxes that were improperly taken from them.” “The Defense Department has for years mistakenly withheld taxes from the benefit payments of our wounded service members,” Sen. Burr said. “Knowing that our most deserving, combat-wounded veterans did not receive their full benefits promised to them is an insult to those who have made great sacrifices for our country. Let’s get this legislation passed as soon as possible so we can make this right.” The National Veterans Legal Services Program (NVLSP) estimates that over 13,800 veterans potentially have been denied full severance pay as a result of wrongful taxation, including 720 veterans in Virginia.
04.20.2016	04.20.16 Finance Committee Passes Package of Burr Bills to Clean Up IRS WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate Finance Committee passed two of Sen. Burr’s bills aimed at cleaning up misconduct at the Internal Revenue Service. The package included the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act and the IRS Accountability Act as amendments to larger taxpayer protection legislation. These bills will prevent the IRS from rehiring employees who were previously fired and will make it easier to fire senior executives for misconduct. “Americans are outraged by the constant stream of news stories about misconduct at the IRS,” said Sen. Burr. “From the employees who are fired and are later rehired by the agency, to the poor performing executives who can’t be fired but can receive bonuses, it’s time to put a stop to this perpetual bureaucratic nightmare. Not only is failing to clean up the IRS a disservice to the American people, but it’s also a slap in the face to the hardworking employees at the agency who are doing a good job. The IRS has a responsibility to the American people to operate in an efficient, competent, and ethical manner.” WATCH: Sen. Burr discusses IRS amendments Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2016 – This bill addresses unsettling evidence uncovered by the Treasury Watchdog that the IRS repeatedly rehired employees who were fired for poor conduct and performance after a lengthy examination process. This legislation will require the IRS to stop this practice. The watchdog’s report even found that an employee who had “Do Not Rehire” stamped on their personnel file was rehired. In February, Sen. Burr penned an op-ed and confronted IRS Commissioner Koskinen about this disturbing practice. IRS Accountability Act of 2015 – This legislation will keep IRS bureaucrats accountable to the American people by giving the IRS Commissioner new authority to fire senior executives who have failed in their performance or committed misconduct. This legislation is based on a law Congress passed in the wake of the VA health care scandal that enables the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to fire senior executives for misconduct.
04.20.2016	04.20.16 Senate Permanently Reauthorizes Critical Conservation Fund, Senator Burr Leads Charge WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate approved a permanent reauthorization for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), championed by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC). The bill passed this morning as part of the Energy Policy Modernization Act, 85-12. Senator Burr has led the charge to bring awareness to the importance of LWCF and to ensure that this fund is renewed. Established in 1964, the LWCF is one of America’s most successful federal conservation programs, conserving irreplaceable lands and improving outdoor recreation opportunities throughout the nation. It requires no taxpayer funding. When the LWCF authorization expired in September, Senator Burr fought for a three year fix until a permanent authorization could be paired with the Energy bill. “Since 2011, I have fought to keep this important conservation fund,” said Sen. Burr. “In North Carolina, famous sites like Catawba Falls and Chimney Rock, as well as many local parks and recreational areas, exist today as a result of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. I’m proud of the important work this fund does to protect our natural heritage, and I look forward to the future conservation efforts that the LWCF will fund for generations to come.” Senator Burr Fights for Conservation Fund in November, click here Senator Burr Op-Ed in Charlotte Observer. Senator Burr Op-Ed in Greensboro News and Record.
04.19.2016	04.19.16 Senate Passes Burr/Tillis Amendment to Save the Corolla Wild Horses WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate approved the Corolla Wild Horse Protection Act, an amendment sponsored by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC). The amendment takes actions to ensure the genetic diversity and viability of the herd so that these horses are not lost forever. The amendment also allows the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to manage the herd at no cost to taxpayers. The amendment passed by voice vote. “I’m glad the Senate approved this amendment,” said Sen. Burr. “The Corolla Wild Horses have lived on North Carolina’s shores for centuries and are an iconic part of the Outer Banks community. The passage of this amendment preserves an important piece of North Carolina’s heritage and will allow the Corolla horses to delight locals and visitors for years to come.” “I’m pleased that the Senate unanimously approved our amendment to help save North Carolina’s Corolla Wild Horses,” said Sen. Tillis. “Many people who have vacationed in North Carolina remember the days when these majestic horses could be sighted on our beautiful beaches, and our amendment will play an important part in ensuring future generations of Americans have their own opportunity to see the Corolla Wild Horses.” “I have had to watch the agonizing genetic decline of these historic horses escalate over the last ten years,” said Karen McCalpin, Executive Director of the Corolla Wild Horse Fund. “Senators Burr and Tillis have saved one the oldest and rarest strains of Colonial Spanish Mustangs in the world. These horses are beloved by hundreds of thousands of people all across America. We are so grateful to Senator Burr and to Senator Tillis for ensuring that these unique horses will be guaranteed a genetically healthy future for generations to come.” Both Sen. Burr and Sen. Tillis spoke in support of the amendment on the Senate floor today. WATCH Sen. Burr’s remarks WATCH Sen. Tillis’ remarks The text of the amendment is available here.
04.18.2016	04.18.16 Law Enforcement Announces Support for Burr/Feinstein Draft Encryption Proposal WASHINGTON –Several law enforcement advocacy groups and senior law enforcement officials have recently announced their support of draft legislation from Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) which reinforces that all entities must comply with court orders to protect Americans from criminals and terrorists. The draft legislation, Compliance with Court Orders Act of 2016, will ensure that no one is above the law. Those who have announced their support of the draft proposal include New York City Police Commissioner William Bratton and New York County District Attorney Cyrus Vance as well as the FBI Agents Association, National District Attorneys Association, Major Cities Police Chiefs Association, International Association of Chiefs of Police and Major Counties Sheriff’s Association. “Having law enforcement officials behind this proposal emphasizes that this draft proposal is needed,” said Chairman Burr. “I’ve spent the better part of the last year exploring the challenges associated with criminal and terrorist use of encrypted communications. Our draft legislation requires entities to provide law enforcement with data in a readable format when served with a court order. Law enforcement can then conduct informed investigations using the communications involved in criminal and terrorist activities. I’m appreciative of their support.” “I’m pleased to have the support of so many state and local law enforcement officials,” said Vice Chairman Feinstein. “They’re the ones on the front lines who see how warrant-proof encryption can harm investigations and jeopardize prosecutions. Because terrorists and criminals are increasingly using encrypted communication devices and messaging applications to foil law enforcement efforts, Chairman Burr and I have drafted legislation that will require technology companies to provide technical support or decrypted information when there is a court order to do so. Encrypted communication shouldn’t be off limits to law enforcement when there is a court order. No individual or company is above the law.” The senators are in the process of soliciting input from the public and key stakeholders before formal introduction. Supporters of the Burr-Feinstein Encryption Draft Proposal Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., District Attorney of New York County: http://manhattanda.org/press-release/statement-manhattan-district-attorney-cyrus-r-vance-jr-draft-bipartisan-legislation-en William J. Bratton, New York City Police Commissioner: http://nypdnews.com/2016/04/statement-by-police-commissioner-william-j-bratton-regarding-proposed-encryption-legislation/ International Association of Chiefs of Police: http://www.theiacp.org/Portals/0/documents/pdfs/NDAA-IACPBurr-FeinsteinEncryption.pdf FBI Agents Association: https://fbiaa.org/sites/default/files/Government-Relations/encryption%20bill.pdf Major Cities Police Chiefs Association: https://www.majorcitieschiefs.com/pdf/news/going_dark_press_release_letterhead.pdf Major County Sheriff's Association: http://www.mcsheriffs.com/pdf/news/burr_feinstein_compliance_with_court_orders_act_copy.pdf National District Attorneys Association: http://www.theiacp.org/Portals/0/documents/pdfs/NDAA-IACPBurr-FeinsteinEncryption.pdf
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Intelligence Committee Leaders Release Discussion Draft of Encryption Legislation WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) today released the Compliance with Court Orders Act of 2016; draft legislation which reinforces that all entities must comply with court orders to protect Americans from criminals and terrorists. The senators will now solicit input from the public and key stakeholders before formally introducing the bill. “I have long believed that data is too insecure, and feel strongly that consumers have a right to seek solutions that protect their information – which involves strong encryption,” said Chairman Burr. “I do not believe, however, that those solutions should be above the law. I am hopeful that this draft will start a meaningful and inclusive debate on the role of encryption and its place within the rule of law. Based on initial feedback, I am confident that the discussion has begun. We remain eager to sit down and discuss a way forward with all who are willing to engage constructively on this critically important and challenging issue.” “No entity or individual is above the law,” said Vice Chairman Feinstein. “The bill we have drafted would simply provide that, if a court of law issues an order to render technical assistance or provide decrypted data, the company or individual would be required to do so. Today, terrorists and criminals are increasingly using encryption to foil law enforcement efforts, even in the face of a court order. We need strong encryption to protect personal data, but we also need to know when terrorists are plotting to kill Americans.” The discussion draft legislation is available here. Compliance with Court Orders Act of 2016 The bill ensures that everyone must comply with court orders to protect America from criminals and terrorists. Sense of Congress. The bill establishes that: No one is above the law. Court order recipients must comply with the rule of law. Providers of communications services and products should protect United States persons’ privacy with strong data security while still complying with court orders and other legal requirements. Covered Entities are subject to the bill’s requirements. Covered Entities include device manufacturers, software manufacturers, electronic communication services, remote communication services, providers of wire or electronic communication services, providers of remote communication services, or any person who provides a product or method to facilitate a communication or to process or store data. Covered Entities must provide information or data. Covered entities that receive a court order for information or data for the investigation or prosecution of specified serious crimes must provide it to the government in an intelligible format or provide the technical assistance necessary to do so. Covered entities are responsible only for the information or data that they (or another party on their behalf) have made unintelligible. Covered entities shall be compensated for the reasonably necessary costs incurred in providing the intelligible data or required technical assistance. The government cannot require or prohibit any specific design or operating system for any covered entity to use in complying with a court order. Certain communication service providers that distribute licenses for a covered entity’s products and services also must ensure that these products and services are capable of providing information or data in an intelligible format. No new collection authorities. The bill does not create any new collection authorities for the government to obtain communications. The bill simply requires covered entities to ensure that the government’s lawfully-obtained evidence is readable—so that law enforcement can solve crimes and protect our communities from criminal and terrorist activities.
04.12.2016	04.12.16 Sen. Burr Presses Education Secretary on Funding for Low-Income Children, King Has No Answers WASHINGTON – Today, during a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) questioned Secretary of Education John King about federal funding designed to help low-income children. King repeatedly dodged Sen. Burr’s questions about Title I education funding, which is supposed to support the educational needs of children living in poverty. The formula governing Title I funding has not been updated since 2001 and does not reflect current population levels. As a result, children in states like North Carolina are missing out on promised funds that should be used at a state level to bolster education funding. “We layer and layer and layer programs on,” said Senator Burr. “But we’ve got one right here where the money doesn’t follow the intended pupil and we are not fixing it.” WATCH: Sec. King repeatedly refuses to answer questions about the outdated funding formula that prevents federal education dollars from following low-income children. Senator Burr has been an aggressive advocate for updating federal education funding formulas to match changes in student population. Children living in poverty in states with a growing population have been consistently short changed by this policy which directs funding to where students lived in 2001, not where they live today. Last year, Sen. Burr authored a provision that was included in the Every Student Succeeds Act, updating the Title II funding formula. This provision will bring $24 million for North Carolina schools. Senator Burr also pushed for a modification to Title 1 funding, the Full Educational Opportunity Act, which would properly redirect federal funds to the states where the funding was intended to go. The Full Educational Opportunity Act passed the Senate by a vote of 59-39 last year as an amendment to the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA). A video of Sen. Burr’s exchange with Education Secretary John King is available here. A transcript of the conversation is included below: Burr: “Isn’t the role of federal government, with taxpayer designated money for poor kids, isn’t our role to make sure that the money follows where those poor kids live?” King: “The focus of the federal dollars is on addressing the needs of the students who are most at risk.” Burr: “Wasn’t Title I designed to supplement the needs of those kids? And today, it doesn’t follow the kids, it stays in districts whether the population grows or decreases. And why wouldn’t the federal government set the example of changing it?” King: “Again, I think the key is to get the dollars to the students who are most at risk, and we have to acknowledge that students who are in schools of concentrated poverty, students in poverty who are in schools of concentrated poverty, are more at risk as a result. One of the things that the President has done is propose an initiative called Stronger Together that would have the goal of…..” Burr: “We layer and layer and layer programs on, but we’ve got one right here where the money doesn’t follow the intended pupil and we are not fixing it.”
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Sen. Burr Fights for Americans Suffering from Rare Diseases WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Burr (R-NC) spoke before the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee on the need for rare disease treatments. WATCH: Sen. Burr speaks on treatments for rare diseases Senator Burr highlighted the example of Taylor King from Charlotte, NC who suffers from Batten disease, a rare genetic condition for which no treatments are currently available. Taylor’s mother, Sharon King, started Taylor’s Tale, an advocacy group dedicated to combatting Batten disease and advocating for the rare disease community. “Taylor’s fight is our fight. And the fight isn’t over,” said Senator Burr. “Innovation is at the heart of how we are going to help Taylor win her battle and combat so many diseases and disorders that impact families in North Carolina and across this country. But it’s up to us to step up to this challenge, and I hope we do so on behalf of Taylor and all of the other Americans like her who are counting on innovation to discover the cure that will help them win their battle." You can learn more about Batten Disease and the King family’s efforts to spread awareness by visiting the Taylor’s Tale website.
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Burr and Boxer Introduce Resolution to Honor Military Families WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today introduced a resolution to mark April 5th as “Gold Star Wives Day.” This day provides an opportunity to honor the members of Gold Star Wives of America, a volunteer organization that has assisted widows and survivors of fallen military members since it was founded in 1945, and thank them for their untiring efforts. Members of Gold Star Wives, both women and men, have lost someone extremely important to them in service to our country, yet they still have compassion to serve others. “Our nation owes these individuals and families a huge debt of gratitude, so I ask that you honor ‘Gold Star Wives’ today and thank them for their patriotism, service, and sacrifice,” said Senator Burr. “These families make great sacrifices for our country so that Americans can enjoy our freedoms every day. Let’s use this day to give back to them” “For 71 years, the Gold Star Wives have reflected the very best of America with their devotion to our military families,” Senator Boxer said. “While we can never repay the debt that we owe them, we can honor them with a national day of recognition for their patriotism and their enormous contributions to our nation.” The first meeting of the Gold Star Wives of America occurred on April 5, 1945, with First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt as founding member. In addition to designating April 5, 2016 as "Gold Star Wives Day," this resolution promotes awareness of the dedication and sacrifice of the families of America's fallen soldiers and veterans. To learn more about the Gold Star Wives of America, please visit their website here. The text of the resolution is available here.
04.04.2016	04.04.16 Senators Burr and Toomey Bet on NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) have placed a friendly bet on the 2016 NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship game this evening. The game will feature a matchup between the Villanova University Wildcats and the University of North Carolina Tar Heels. The agreed-to terms of the wager are as follows: The losing senator must wear the victorious team’s hat and t-shirt and post photos prominently on social media in order to properly bask in the sting of defeat. “North Carolina has a rich tradition of excelling at college basketball and I’m confident that the Tar Heels will uphold that tradition tonight,” said Sen. Burr. “Philadelphia is known for cheesesteaks; North Carolina is known for basketball. Since the tournament began in 1936, the state of North Carolina has sent 22 teams to the national championship and brought back 12 titles. I’m sure Villanova will put up a good fight. The sky will be Carolina blue tomorrow and Senator Toomey will be wearing a Tar Heel jersey to match.” “With Naismith National Coach of the Year Jay Wright at the helm in Philadelphia, the Villanova Wildcats have proven themselves elite all season long,” said Sen. Toomey. “I look forward to seeing Ryan Arcidiacono continue his impressive perimeter shooting and Daniel Ochefu dominate the Tar Heels in the paint. I know Richard likes wearing powder blue, but I hope he’s also comfortable in navy and white. Go Nova!”
03.24.2016	03.24.16 Following Pressure From Burr & Tillis, VA Grants Disability Benefits to Lejeune Veterans with Bladder Cancer WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today applauded VA Secretary Robert McDonald’s decision to add bladder cancer to the list of presumptive diseases. This afternoon, at a Community Assistance Panel (CAP) meeting at the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) in Atlanta, the VA announced the establishment of a presumption of service connection for veterans who suffer from bladder cancer as a result of the contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune. This will allow those veterans suffering from bladder cancer to qualify for disability compensation. The announcement comes after Senators Burr and Tillis applied pressure on the VA to presume disability status for veterans who developed bladder cancer after serving at Camp Lejeune. While the VA announced last year that it would presume disability status for veterans who had served at Camp Lejeune and were suffering from a list of eight diseases, bladder cancer, one of the most common health problems in affected veterans, was inexplicably omitted from the list. On March 9, 2016, Senators Burr and Tillis sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan urging him to not allow costs to be a deterrent in providing disability presumption for Lejeune veterans who developed bladder cancer. “I’m glad the VA is stepping up to help the veterans who were negligently poisoned by the water at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Burr. “The scientific link between bladder cancer and service at Camp Lejeune is clear. I had a lot of questions for the VA when bladder cancer was not included on the initial list of presumptive diseases. This is an important step in the right direction.” “While there was no excuse for the VA to initially deny disability compensation for veterans who developed bladder cancer as a result of past toxic water contamination at Camp Lejeune, I’m grateful that the VA made the right decision in the end,” said Senator Tillis. “We have a debt of obligation to the veterans, family members, and other civilians who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune, and today’s announcement helps us provide hundreds of more veterans with the compensation they need and deserve.
03.22.2016	03.22.16 Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Burr Statement on the Terror Attacks in Belgium WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the terror attacks in Belgium this morning: “I am saddened and angered by the senseless and barbaric attacks this morning in Brussels. Our government has offered robust support to our partners in Belgium and I will continue to track the events closely as they unfold. My thoughts and prayers go out to the Belgian people and all other nations who lost innocent civilians today.”
03.21.2016	03.21.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Statement on the Death of Lejeune Marine in Iraq Fighting ISIL WASHINGTON – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) today made the following statement on the death of Staff Sgt. Louis F. Cardin who was killed in Iraq over the weekend in an attack by Islamic State militants: "We are deeply saddened that one of our U.S. Marines died fighting the Islamic State over the weekend. Based in Camp Lejeune, Staff Sgt. Louis F. Cardin made the ultimate sacrifice battling ISIS. Our prayers are with him and his family.”
03.17.2016	03.17.16 Senate and House Members Announce Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation to Expand ABLE Accounts WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) and Representatives Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), and Pete Sessions (R-TX) introduced a package of bills aimed at enhancing the ABLE Act. The ABLE to Work Act builds on the success of the ABLE Act by making it possible for disabled people who work to save a portion of their income in an ABLE account without risking loss of benefits. These bills will also allow rollovers to and from 529 college savings plans as well as raise the age for eligibility from 26 to 46. In 2014, the bipartisan group of lawmakers led the effort to pass the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which lets families who have a child with a disability save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts. The ABLE Act was a significant step forward and has been heralded as one of the most important pieces of disability legislation since the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). “The ability to support yourself through work is an essential element of the American dream,” said Senator Burr. “The ABLE to Work Act gives disabled Americans and their families better options to plan for the future. Many individuals with disabilities are able to work, but our current one-size-fits all system punishes those who do by making them ineligible for benefits. Work is about more than financial support; it’s about participating in society and building a sense of purpose. It is wrong to exclude the most vulnerable members of our community from the benefits of work. I am also proud to join with my colleagues to introduce legislation to improve the ABLE Act by allowing rollovers from 529 college savings plans as well as allowing individuals who become disabled after turning 26 to open and save in an ABLE account.” “This legislation will strengthen the ABLE Act and I’m pleased that we were able to assemble a bipartisan coalition to introduce these measures,” Senator Casey said. “The belief that undergirds the ABLE Act is that those with disabilities have a lot of ability. These measures will help families who have a child with a disability to put that child on a more secure financial footing.” Congressman Ander Crenshaw, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, said "When the ABLE Act became law-of-the-land on December 19, 2014, a brighter future opened to millions of Americans living with disabilities. Today, people with disabilities can use tax-free ABLE accounts to plan for future expenses without risking the loss of critical federal benefits. Now is the time to build on that historic achievement with additional, common-sense tax code revisions that promote self-sufficiency for an even greater number of individuals with disabilities. That's independence worth fighting for: No one who is willing to work, save, and responsibly plan for their future should be held back by the U.S. tax code. Period." “Passage of the ABLE Act over one year ago is leveling the playing field for people with disabilities by ensuring equal access to tax-free savings accounts. These resources help individuals with disabilities reach their full potential by providing a better way to save and plan for their future,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “After working hard to get the ABLE Act to President Obama’s desk, I’m proud to once again join Senators Casey and Burr and Representatives Crenshaw, McMorris Rogers, and Sessions in an effort to expand access to ABLE accounts and give beneficiaries more flexibility– without the fear of losing needed Social Security and Medicaid benefits.” “As the mother of a young son with Down Syndrome, I know the challenges families face preparing for their loved one’s future,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “With this initiative, we are building on the success of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the ABLE Act to enable those with disabilities to seek meaningful and competitive employment opportunities without the fear of losing their benefits. Let’s help them achieve their dreams of being independent and contributing to society.” “The ABLE Act broke through the glass ceiling for thousands of individuals with disabilities by giving them the ability to plan and save for their futures,” said Congressman Sessions. “While the ABLE Act was a critical first step, today's package will bolster our efforts and strengthen the law to ensure individuals with disabilities, like my son, Alex, have the opportunities they need and deserve to achieve a bigger, brighter future.” Since the passage of the ABLE Act in 2014, 34 states have enacted ABLE programs and legislation is pending in several more states. The ABLE to Work Act expands on the goals of the ABLE Act by encouraging work and self-sufficiency. The legislation allows individuals and their families to save more money in an ABLE account if the beneficiary works and earns income. Specifically, an ABLE beneficiary who earns income from a job could save up to the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently at $11,770. The bill will also allow ABLE beneficiaries to qualify for the existing Saver's Credit when they put savings in. Text of the ABLE to Work Act is available here. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would allow families to rollover savings in a 529 college savings plan into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before their child is even born, only to learn later that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child is in a tragic accident and becomes severely disabled. In such instances, these families have funds trapped in a 529 that they could use to help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If they withdraw the funds for anything other than college expenses, they face taxes on their withdrawals. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would help these families by allowing them to rollover the funds in their 529 account into an ABLE account for their disabled child. Text of the ABLE Financial Planning Act is available here. The ABLE Age Adjustment Act will raise the age limit for ABLE accounts to age 46. Currently, individuals with a severe disability prior to the age of 26 are eligible to open an ABLE account. Many debilitating diseases and conditions can strike later in life, including multiple sclerosis, Lou Gehrig’s disease, or paralysis due to an accident. Increasing the age limit for ABLE accounts will allow more individuals to save in these accounts to help cover the costs of short, medium and long-term care. Text of the ABLE Age Adjustment Act available here.
03.17.2016	03.17.16 Senators Burr and Tillis Urge CMS to Halt Medicare Advantage Cuts to Seniors in NC and Nationally WASHINGTON – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) pressed the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to reconsider cuts to the Medicare Advantage plans, which will drastically reduce access to Medicare Advantage for 135,000 seniors in North Carolina. The Medicare Advantage program is popular nationwide because of the quality care and choices it offers seniors. The Senators note that they share concern about the proposed cuts to Medicare Advantage (MA) Retiree Coverage included in the February 19th Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) 2017 Advance Rate Notice. Medicare Advantage plans have been very popular with seniors. Unfortunately, the proposed cut for MA Employer Group Waiver Plans threatens the choice and access to these MA plans for 3.3 million retirees, 135,000 of whom reside in North Carolina. The senators wrote: “Employers look to MA Retiree Coverage as a critical form of health care coverage for their retirees because it offers more coordinated care, and a greater choice of benefits than Fee-For-Service Medicare. This proposed cut to MA Retiree Coverage could negatively affect employers offering MA Retiree Coverage to their workforce and the seniors who have chosen these MA plans. Furthermore, this 2.5 percent cut could harm one in four Medicare Advantage beneficiaries in North Carolina, and one outside estimate suggests that the impact of this cut to MA Retiree Coverage could reduce the value of this benefit by up to $22 a month. We are concerned that this cut will result in reduced benefits, less access to care, and higher costs for seniors enrolled in these plans in North Carolina and throughout the country. “We strongly urge CMS to reconsider the proposed cut to MA Retiree Coverage Plans in the 2017 Final Rate Notice to help ensure that MA employers will continue to offer this plan option, and seniors will continue to have a choice of MA plans to access high quality care.” Read the letter to CMS here.
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Burr Statement on Supreme Court Nominee: American People Deserve a Voice WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) commented following the President’s announcement of his nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to the United States Supreme Court: “The American people deserve a voice in the nomination of the next Supreme Court Justice. This appointment could easily tip the balance of the court in a direction not supported by the American people as evidenced by 2014’s election results giving Republicans both the Senate and House.”
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Burr Statement on Senate Passage of Bill to Address Opioid Addiction: We Can Reverse This Trend WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today voted for Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524), a bipartisan bill to help communities combat the growing opioid epidemic in America. The legislation passed by a vote of 94-1. “Today, Americans suffering with opioid addiction are closer than ever before to getting the help they need,” said Senator Burr. “There are thousands of North Carolina families currently grappling with this addiction and I am encouraged that the Senate has produced bipartisan legislation that will help end the devastating crisis hurting families across the country. We can reverse this disturbing trend that has ravaged the United States over the past few decades.”
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Burr’s Pandemic Preparedness and Innovation Bills Pass Committee WASHINGTON – Today, in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee approved two innovation bills offered by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). Both the Advancing Breakthrough Medical Devices for Patients Act of 2015 and Medical Countermeasures Innovation Act of 2015 passed on a voice vote. Senators Burr, Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced Advancing Breakthrough Devices for Patients Act in April of 2015. Senator Burr and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the Medical Countermeasures Innovation Act in September of 2015. “Today we are one step closer to these important bills becoming laws” said Senator Burr. “We must be prepared to protect the American people from the full range of threats we may face, whether naturally occurring like an influenza pandemic, or the result of a deliberate attack. Innovative technologies are key for improving the daily lives of millions of Americans and making these technologies available as quickly as possible will improve patients’ lives and better prepare us to respond to health threats. I’m pleased the HELP Committee supported these bills.” About the Medical Countermeasures Innovation Act of 2015: This legislation encourages the development of medical countermeasures, including drugs, devices and preventative treatments, needed to protect the American people in the event of a global pandemic or biological weapon attack. Despite recent improvements in America’s readiness and response capabilities, the Ebola crisis, the Zika virus and other emergencies at home and abroad make it clear that more needs to be done to ensure our government is fully capable of responding to these threats. About the Advancing Breakthrough Devices for Patients Act of 2015: This legislation builds on the Advancing Breakthrough Therapies for Patients Act, which the Senate passed in 2012 from Senators Bennet, Hatch, and Burr. Both the 2012 legislation and the newly introduced bill share similar principles, such as an “all hands-on-deck” approach to devices, while also complementing and enhancing the existing tools, such as priority review, currently in place for devices, with the goal of expediting the development and review of breakthrough products.
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Senators Introduce Bill to Stop Federal Government from Devastating Amateur Motorsports WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Dean Heller (R-NV) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016, or the RPM Act, which will prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from cracking down on amateur race car mechanics and hobbyists. The rule proposed last year by the EPA runs counter to existing law and Congressional intent, and it would threaten the very existence of amateur motorsports in the United States. The RPM ACT will keep the Obama administration from yet another federal overreach of its regulatory powers. “For decades, Congresses and previous Administrations have made it clear that the EPA does not have the authority to regulate racing vehicles, but that hasn’t stopped Obama’s EPA from trying,” said Senator Burr. “The EPA is attempting to tell the American people what they can do with their own cars, even though there is a deep tradition of hobbyists who have chosen to upgrade their vehicles for their own personal enjoyment, even when they are removed from public roads. This is Obama’s nanny state at its worst, and it’s a direct threat to amateur motorsports in the country.” “The EPA is again attempting to overstep its authority; this time to regulate one of our nation’s most beloved traditions - motorsports,” said Senator Capito, a member of the Congressional Automotive Performance and Motorsports Caucus. “From local tracks to family garages across the state, West Virginia’s passion for American motorsports runs deep. This legislation will put the brakes on an out of control EPA and protect racecar enthusiasts in West Virginia and nationwide.” “Having been surrounded by amateur motorsports my entire life, this latest overreach by the Administration continues to serve as a testament to the lengths the EPA will go to regulate Americans,” said Senator Heller. “Congress never intended for the EPA to regulate vehicles used solely for competition, especially ones used exclusively for racing. As a race car driver, mechanic, and automotive enthusiast, this legislation will allow many hobbyists to continue doing what we love and enjoy.” “Competitive motorsports has a long and storied history in North Carolina and I am pleased to support this commonsense legislation that will stop the continued and unnecessary federal overreach by the EPA,” said Senator Tillis. A companion bill, HR 4715, was introduced in the House of Representatives this week. The Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016 would prevent the EPA from cracking down on amateur race car mechanics and hobbyists and reaffirms what Congress’ position has always been on the regulation of vehicles used solely for competitive purposes.
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Sen. Burr Votes No on Nomination of Common Core Champion WASHINGTON – Today, in a session of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP) Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) voted against the nomination of former New York State Education Commissioner to be Secretary of Education. Sen. Burr released the following statement on the vote: “Today, I voted against John King’s nomination for Secretary of Education because he is clearly the wrong person for the job. We need someone who will listen to teachers and parents. John King has demonstrated that he is not that person. While serving as State Education Commissioner in New York, he made education worse by forcing big government Common Core standards on teachers and students, and pushing policies that violated student privacy. In addition to promoting bad policy, King exhibited poor judgement as a manager – knowingly allowing lawbreakers to continue serving in senior positions without penalty.”
03.07.2016	03.07.16 Sens. Burr, Ayotte, Daines, Hoeven, and Tillis Introduce Veterans Choice Improvement Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Steve Daines (R-MT), John Hoeven (R-ND), Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Boozman (R-AR) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) introduced the Veterans Choice Improvement Act of 2016. This legislation makes the Veterans Choice Program, which was created in 2014 to allow veterans to get needed health care outside of the VA system, a permanent program with advance funding. It will also make needed changes and reforms to address the bureaucratic delays, hassles and confusion that veterans have continued to experience in attempting to get health care. "Veterans deserve the best health care that America has to offer, but as we learned in 2014 from the waitlist scandals, VA is failing to deliver it," Senator Burr said. "The creation of the Veterans Choice program nearly two years ago was a good start, but there is much more we need to do if we are going to fulfill our promises to our veterans. I’ve heard from many veterans in North Carolina who tell me that they are still experiencing significant frustrations and delay in getting health care. My legislation cuts down on the bureaucratic delays, hassles and confusion that is standing in between veterans and the health care they need. Congress must take action on this legislation so that every American veteran will finally be able to rely on quality care without having to wait or drive far." “The Veterans Choice Program is critical to providing New Hampshire's veterans with choices regarding where they receive the health care they have earned,” said Senator Ayotte. “As part of our ongoing efforts to address shortcomings with the VA’s implementation of the program, the Veterans Choice Improvement Act of 2016 would make important reforms and ensure that the program is permanently extended,” said Senator Ayotte. “I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and I will continue my efforts to protect New Hampshire veterans’ health care choices.” “Problems with the Choice Act is the number one concern I hear from veterans in Montana. We need to ensure that the men and women who risked their lives for our country have every option available to receive the best care and treatment,” Daines stated. “Our country has a duty to uphold the promises it made to our veterans and this bill takes bold steps toward improving the entire Choice Act Program to ensure that happens." “Our veterans should not have to wait months or years to get the quality health care services they need, nor should they have to drive for hours to get routine care,” Senator Hoeven said. “Two years ago, we worked very hard to pass the Veterans Choice Program to address these issues, but clearly that legislation needs to be improved. The bill we’re introducing today will strengthen the Choice Act by cutting red tape and confusion and giving local private medical providers in North Dakota and across the nation the confidence they need to enter into service agreements with the VA. It will allow our vets, who didn’t delay defending our nation, to get the high quality care they need within their own communities and without delay.” “We cannot let the failure of the VA bureaucracy prevent our veterans from receiving the health care they need and deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “By reducing wasteful redundancies within the VA and modernizing the outdated claims submission process, the Veterans Choice Improvement Act will help veterans in North Carolina and across the nation receive higher quality and more timely health care.” The Veteran’s Choice Improvement Act addresses three key problems that have come to light since the creation of the Veterans Choice Program in 2014: Systemic confusion with accessing health care outside the VA: The VA has the legal authority to send veterans outside of the VA to receive care, but there are multiple programs, contracts and laws that confuse everyone involved. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act simplifies the process by consolidating redundant and overlapping programs into the Veterans Choice Program and creating one funding source for all non-VA care programs. This will streamline and simplify the process for veterans who need to go outside of the VA to receive care. Medical providers fear working with the VA, which is jeopardizing the ability of veterans to get the care they need: VA has an antiquated, slow, and inefficient claims processing system that often makes it very difficult for private medical providers to work with the VA. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act requires that the VA will create a modern, secure and efficient claims submission process with industry best practices. It gives strict timelines for reimbursement to providers and includes measures to make sure that the VA meets those timelines. The VA does not use local medical providers to help veterans, which means veterans have to drive for hours to receive care, even for simple things like getting eyeglasses. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act allows the VA to enter into provider agreements with local providers, which will help thousands of veterans who live in areas with health care shortages to receive the care they need much more easily and conveniently. A summary of the legislation is available here. The text of the legislation is available here.
03.06.2016	03.06.16 Burr Statement on the Passing of Nancy Reagan WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Nancy Davis Reagan: “Today, Americans mourn the loss of the former First Lady, who represented the United States with utmost dignity. I am saddened to hear of her passing, but find solace that she will once again join her husband. Let us remember her great contributions to this country, such as her commitment to stem the AIDS virus and her advocacy for a drug free country. Nancy Reagan led her life as an example to others, and while today is a day for mourning, we are better for having had her influence on this nation.”
02.25.2016	02.25.16 Sen. Burr Pushes IRS to Provide Reasons for Taxpayer Audits WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced a bill to force the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to present a taxpayer clear reasons why an individual or business is chosen for an audit. The legislation, the Biased IRS Audit Systems (BIAS) Prevention Act, will ensure that the IRS is fairly administering the tax code by requiring that the IRS provide documented justification to taxpayers for the standard audits it conducts. Recent government watchdog studies found that the IRS needs better protocols to protect citizens and ensure fairness across the entirety of its audit selection process. “When taxpayers are audited by the IRS, they deserve to know why. Taxpayers have a right to know if they are being treated fairly by the IRS, especially in light of revelations that the IRS has targeted Americans for their political beliefs,” said Senator Burr. “A government watchdog recently found that the IRS can unfairly select an individual for an audit, and that potential for bias must be eliminated. This bill will bring much needed transparency by making the audit selection process used by the IRS clearer to those who are getting audited. It’s true that no one wants the hassle of an IRS audit, but the government owes the taxpayer a reason for being subjected to one.” The BIAS Prevention Act would also end so-called “Audits from Hell” or “guinea pig audits” -- these are audits that have been continually resurrected by the IRS despite congressional efforts to make the agency more taxpayer friendly. These intensive, multi-year research audits are conducted solely for the purpose of “research” by the IRS, not to catch mistakes or to check inconsistencies in tax returns. These so-called “research audits” needlessly burden taxpayers by subjecting them to quality control experiments to assist IRS planning. It is not the job of taxpayers to serve as guinea pigs for IRS bureaucrats. Senator Burr’s office recently became aware of a North Carolina couple who, after facing three audits that all resulted in no changes to their tax returns, was selected for additional, extensive audits purely for research purposes. This means the couple, in a span of 8 years, could be audited 6 times. Instead of guinea pig audits, the BIAS Prevention Act would focus IRS resources on combatting tax refund fraud and identity theft. Tax fraud related to identity theft is a $21 billion problem and growing; the IRS should not be conducting tens of thousands of guinea pig audits while simultaneously claiming that they don’t have the budget to combat tax-related identity theft. About the bill: IRS shall ensure that any taxpayer, at the time of being notified of a standard audit, be provided an explanation as to why they were selected for such audit. IRS shall retain records and make them available to the taxpayer and various oversight bodies to ensure that standard audits are not influenced by political bias, inaccurate sources of information, or bias at the individual examiner or department level. The IRS shall be prohibited from conducting “guinea pig audits”, which is any audit that is purely for research purposes, not to catch mistakes or inconsistencies. The IRS shall be required to submit a plan to Congress on how it can take the resources it currently uses to conduct tens of thousands of guinea pig audits and redirect them to combatting real tax fraud and identity theft. The BIAS Prevention Act maintains the IRS’s current ability to conduct standard audits. Government watchdog studies about the need for improvement to the audit selection process: IRS Return Selection: Wage and Investment Division Should Define Audit Objectives and Refine Other Internal Controls IRS Correspondence Audits: Better Management Could Improve Tax Compliance and Reduce Taxpayer Burden IRS Examination Selection: Internal Controls for Exempt Organization Selection Should Be Strengthened Certain Internal Controls for Audits in the Small Business and Self-Employed Division Should Be Strengthened The BIAS Prevention Act bill text is available here.
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Burr, Ayotte, Cotton, Rubio Introduce Bill to Stop Obama from Turning Over Gitmo Naval Base to Cuba WASHINGTON – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) late yesterday introduced a bill to prevent President Obama from giving the United States Naval base at Guantanamo Bay back to Cuba without proper Congressional approval. The Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act, S. 2559, requires the President to notify Congress if he proposes to modify, terminate, abandon or transfer the lease of the land that currently contains Naval Station Guantanamo Bay. This bill also permanently prohibits the President from modifying, terminating, abandoning, or transferring the lease without the approval, by law, of Congress. President Obama will be traveling to Cuba next month as part of his ongoing efforts to normalize relations between the United States and the communist regime. Cuban President Raul Castro has indicated that handing over the land to his government is a precondition of normalization. “President Obama’s aggressive push to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay is dangerous,” said Senator Burr. “Recently, we learned that one of the former prisoners at Gitmo is back fighting for Al-Qaeda's terrorist agenda. It’s clear that the threats to the United States are increasing, not decreasing, and we need every available military asset. As President Obama continues to court the Castro regime, I believe it is important that Congress makes clear that he cannot give up our base in such a strategic location.” "Naval Station Guantanamo Bay is a major and irreplaceable national security asset for the United States in a region that will only become more important to the safety of Americans in the future. I will oppose any effort to relinquish U.S. control of this vital base to Cuba," said Senator Ayotte. "President Obama's approach with the Castros has been ‘America gives, Cuba gets.' We give more trade, more remittances, released spies, and they get to keep jailing dissidents and more money to prolong a Marxist regime,” said Senator Cotton. "This bill will stop President Obama from cutting a secret side deal on his March trip to Havana and ceding control of Guantanamo Bay to the Cubans, another major concession that would be detrimental to the United States’ safety and security.” "Since announcing the re-establishment of diplomatic relations with Cuba, President Obama has given the Castro regime concession after concession, prioritizing political promises over national security, the integrity of America's justice system, human rights and democracy,” Senator Rubio said. “The Castro regime is already ripping the American people off and now it's demanding the return of a U.S. naval station, which has been vital to our Navy and Coast Guard operations in the Caribbean for over a century. “Our military and intelligence services are trying to confront growing threats to our homeland, and we simply cannot hand over this critical base, especially not as the end result of President Obama's dangerous plan to release terrorists back into the battlefield or bring them to U.S. soil,” Rubio added. “Naval Station Guantanamo Bay has been an essential tool for our military to resupply U.S. ships supporting counter illicit trafficking and humanitarian missions in Latin America, as well as for mass migration contingencies. I am proud to support legislation to protect this base and keep it in American hands.” The bill is a companion to H.R. 654, introduced by Rep. David Jolly (R-FL). About the strategic military importance of United States Naval base at Guantanamo Bay: The Naval Station’s current missions are to maintain a forward presence near the Windward Passage to the Caribbean, provide a base for naval refueling ships, support ongoing counter-drug operations in the Caribbean, and provide logistical support to Joint Task Force Organizations in the region. The 45 square miles of land the naval station currently resides on is also the home to Joint Task Force – Guantanamo and the Office of Military Commissions – South Detachment, which in combination are tasked with protecting national interests by detaining suspected terrorists. Overseas bases are permanent force projection assets. Naval Station Guantanamo Bay is crucial to U.S. Southern Command's area of responsibility and assists our military's missions in the Caribbean and South America. With Venezuela on the brink of economic collapse, the naval station is as important as it has ever been. The ability of the United States to meet our obligations to worldwide naval operations, national security, and to continue to keep from the battlefield enemy elements, necessitates the continued operation of Naval Station Guantanamo Bay.
02.13.2016	02.13.16 Statement on the Death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia WASHINGTON - Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Justice Scalia. He was a staunch defender of the Constitution who understood and adhered to the vision our Founding Fathers had of a limited government. This is a profound loss for our nation. “In this election year, the American people will have an opportunity to have their say in the future direction of our country. For this reason, I believe the vacancy left open by Justice Scalia should not be filled until there is a new President.”
02.11.2016	02.11.16 Burr Confronts IRS Commissioner Koskinen, IRS Watchdog on the Rehiring of Previously Fired Employees WASHINGTON – Following an exchange yesterday in the Senate Finance Committee hearing with Internal Revenue Service Commissioner John Koskinen, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today asked the IRS watchdog to take a closer look at Koskinen’s claims that the IRS is no longer rehiring employees who were previously fired from the agency. In a letter to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA), Senator Burr noted inconsistencies in Koskinen’s testimony. Senator Burr wrote in his letter to the Inspector General: “My question to you is simple. Has the IRS fixed this problem? Of the 800 individuals who were identified in your report, how many still work at the IRS? “As you clearly state in your report, the problems created by these performance and conduct issues impose a cost on the agency and the ability of the IRS to serve taxpayers. It is my understanding, as of early 2015, your office was not aware of any new hiring procedures that the IRS has implemented that would address the ongoing concerns cited in your report and would lead you to consider it a closed matter.” Watch Senator Burr pressing Commissioner Koskinen here. Read the letter here and embedded below. Senator Burr this week penned an op-ed in the Daily Caller, “Making the Same Mistake Hundreds of Times: The IRS Re-Hires Fired Employees” February 11, 2016 The Honorable J. Russell George Inspector General for Tax Administration 1401 H Street, NW Suite 469 Washington, DC 20005 Dear Mr. George: I am writing to you today with a request for further investigation into the issue of the Internal Revenue Service’s consideration of prior conduct and performance issues when hiring former employees. This matter was reviewed in a December 30, 2014 report by your office: Additional Consideration of Prior Conduct and Performance Issues Is Needed When Hiring Former Employees (Reference Number: 2015-10-006). As you may know, on February 10, 2016, IRS Commissioner John Koskinen came before the United States Senate Committee on Finance to testify at a hearing on the Internal Revenue Service operations and the President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2017. In the hearing, I pressed the Commissioner on the findings of your report, where an appalling number of IRS employees were rehired after being fired for cause. The Commissioner stated that current updated procedures would prevent the IRS from rehiring those same fired employees. I asked the Commissioner: “What can I say to a North Carolinian that asks me ‘how can they have a practice like this when the private sector would never think of hiring someone with a prior track record like that?’” Koskinen replied: “You can tell your constituents that it’s not going to happen again… We do not hire people with prior performance issues. We do not hire people who have abused any tax payer money.” To my mind, this seems in conflict with your report. The report states that the IRS believes that “it was not feasible to move the review of these issues to earlier in the hiring process. This action would greatly increase the cost of hiring, likely increase cycle time beyond the Presidential mandate of 80 days, require additional resources, and not likely yield a reasonable return on investment. The IRS considers this recommendation fully implemented and closed.” Your office responded that despite some changes that the IRS made, “we remain concerned because IRS records indicate that in 2012 and 2013 it hired individuals with prior significant IRS-substantiated conduct and performance issues. As such, we continue to believe that the IRS needs to reassess its current process to more fully consider prior conduct and performance issues before rehiring employees.” My question to you is simple: Has the IRS fixed this problem? Of the 800 individuals who were identified in your report, how many still work at the IRS? As you clearly state in your report, the problems created by these performance and conduct issues impose a cost on the agency and the ability of the IRS to serve taxpayers. It is my understanding, as of early 2015, your office was not aware of any new hiring procedures that the IRS has implemented that would address the ongoing concerns cited in your report and would lead you to consider it a closed matter. A closer examination of the Commissioner’s remarks suggest that the IRS intends to only stop themselves from hiring those with “substantial” performance issues according to their own interpretation and discretion. In fact, Commissioner Koskinen stated in previous testimony to the Ways and Means Committee that, “just because you have a performance issue in your file doesn’t mean you can never work again for the IRS.” I am concerned that, despite the Commissioner’s characterization of the IRS having a revamped policy, the agency will continue to open its doors to rehiring those who have already demonstrated substandard performance and conduct history. Additionally, I was surprised that the Commissioner professed to not knowing whether or not the IRS conducted interviews with persons before examining their prior conduct and performance issues. This issue troubles me in ways that go beyond the Commissioner’s stated lack of knowledge. The IRS seems to be conducting a hiring policy that is not in keeping with best-practice standards very common in the private sector. There are few better predictors of future performance than past performance, something your report makes clear by citing the ongoing performance and conduct problems among rehired employees. I reiterate that in their response to your report they stated that looking at these issues earlier in the hiring process would be expensive and not lead to a “return on investment.” It’s troubling that the IRS is waiting until the last step in the resume review process to determine whether a candidate has had a prior poor performance record at the IRS. To me, the first step should be checking an individual’s past history before spending up to 80 days of taxpayer dollars to only, at the last step, determine that the individual has already scammed the taxpayers once. Would your office be able to identify any cost/benefit analysis done by the IRS on a policy of checking an individual’s past employment history with the agency earlier in the hiring process? It seems to me that this is a feasible policy for implementation that would ensure that we secure the best candidates for employment in order to serve taxpayers, maintain the public trust, and protect rights and privacy. I ask that your office conduct further inquiries into this issue and determine if IRS hiring policies continue to need improvement. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Richard Burr
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Sen. Burr Takes Steps to Better Protect Children at Military Child Care Facilities WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced the Military Child Care Protection Act of 2016. The bipartisan bill would improve standards for child care centers on military bases by bringing them in line with the standards for other child care centers that receive federal dollars. "This is a common sense proposal," Senator Burr said. "Parents deserve the peace of mind that they are leaving their children in good hands when they drop them off at a military child care facility. No parent should have to worry that they are leaving their child with a violent felon. I'm pleased Sen. Boxer is working with me on this bill, and I look forward to its next steps." Senator Burr has been a consistent advocate for improving child care standards. He was a sponsor of the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2014 which put into law the highest standards for criminal background checks of employers receiving federal child care dollars. Currently, criminal background check requirements by the Department of Defense do not carry the same high standards as those under CCDBG of 2014, potentially leaving children vulnerable. The Military Child Care Protection Act of 2016 would prohibit individuals convicted of the following crimes from working with children at military child care facilities: Murder Child abuse or neglect Crimes against children, such as child pornography Spousal abuse Rape or sexual assault Kidnapping, arson, physical assault or battery Drug related offense committed during the preceding five years In 2012, 4-month old Sonny Degenhard died at a child care center on Fort Bragg. In a response to media inquiries about the death of Sonny Dagenhard, Ft. Bragg Officials cited fixing the discrepancy in background check policies as an area of improvement that could prevent future deaths. A one-pager on the legislation is available here.
02.09.2016	02.09.16 HELP Committee Advances Bipartisan Bill to Help Patients by Facilitating Faster Development of Drugs for Rare Diseases Washington, DC – The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee today approved a bipartisan bill help advance the development of targeted drugs for patients with serious or life-threatening rare genetic diseases. The Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act of 2015 was introduced by U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Burr (R-NC), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) in September. “Our conversations with Coloradans suffering the effects of Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis, and other life-threatening rare diseases, have made it clear we need to do more to remove red tape and improve access to cutting edge treatments,” Bennet said. “Bioscience companies are developing targeted therapies that are saving and lengthening lives, and this bill will allow them to expand the scope of their testing to help save even more lives. Allowing these researchers to safely test new therapies on patients with the same rare disease but a different mutation can help unleash a host of lifesaving new breakthroughs.” “As a new therapy for a rare disease becomes available, there’s a chance that Americans who suffer from a number of similar diseases could benefit from it,” said Burr. “We need to cut the red tape that stands in between patients and the medicines that could save their lives. I'm pleased that this bill has cleared this hurdle and thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their support.” “Targeted therapies are a promising form of treatment for people living with rare diseases. We should use all the tools we can to help bring these new therapies to market, while maintaining the FDA's strong safety and effectiveness standard,” Warren said. “I’ve heard from families in Massachusetts who often have no other treatment options. Today’s committee vote on this bipartisan bill is a step toward helping innovators advance the next generation of precision medicines, which will make a real difference for these families and for many families across the country.” “As a long-time champion for helping those with rare diseases, I am encouraged by the amazing progress we are making in precision medicine. If we want to realize the full potential of cutting-edge advances and address serious unmet needs of many patients, the Senate must pass the Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act,” said Hatch. “This legislation will incentivize drug development, help overcome the difficulties of conducting conventional trials for many rare diseases, conserve FDA’s limited resources, bring needed therapies to patients faster, and make treatments available where there otherwise would be no other options.” Many rare diseases like Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis, and certain cancers have genetic origins. A variety of mutations within a gene can result in the same disease, further fracturing diseases into a number subtypes. Advances in medicine have made it possible to develop treatments targeted to a particular genetic subtype, but the use of these targeted therapies is limited to patients with an exact mutation. Targeted therapies are usually developed first for the most common genetic subtype. Developing drugs for rare diseases is particularly difficult because of the small patient populations available for clinical trials. Therefore, there would need to be dozens of therapies to treat the full spectrum of certain genetic rare diseases. The Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act of 2015 affirms the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA’s) authority to allow innovators to use their own data supporting the approval of a targeted therapy to help facilitate additional targeted therapies to treat patients with the same rare disease. This bill does not change the FDA’s current approval standards and has the support of the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD), Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy (PPMD), the Muscular Dystrophy Association, and the Duchenne Alliance.
02.08.2016	02.08.16 Op-ed: Making The Same Mistake Hundreds Of Times: The IRS Re-Hires Fired Employees This week, Internal Revenue Service Commissioner John Koskinen is set to appear before the Senate Finance Committee, and yet again, the IRS is in a sorry state. As more reports of the IRS unfairly targeting Americans come to light, taxpayers are dumbfounded about what they see as a lack of accountability at the agency and its inability to clean out bad employees. But the problem is worse than that. In hundreds of cases over a three year period, the IRS has actually hired back employees it had previously fired. The fear of getting fired from a job – along with all of the personal and professional upheaval that can bring – lies in the hearts of many hard-working, tax-paying Americans. However, a recent investigation by a government watchdog dug up undeniable evidence that the very worst employees at the IRS don’t need to fear for their jobs. An investigation into the hiring process at the IRS found that the agency has a history of rehiring employees who had previously been fired for misconduct. Examples of misconduct highlighted by the investigation include serious offenses like fraud, falsification of documents, and unauthorized access to taxpayer information. This is not only an affront to taxpayers, it is also a slap in the face to the public servants at the agency who do work hard every day. Investigators looked at a sample of 7,168 rehired employees and found that 824, or 11 percent, of them had prior substantiated employment issues. One employee even had “DO NOT REHIRE” stamped in his personnel file. He was previously fired for being absent without leave for 312 hours. If you add that up, it’s a total of two months of missed work. He was found to be employed by the IRS when the investigation was conducted. This individual is impressive only in the skill with which he has ripped off the hard working Americans who pay his salary. The problem of rehiring fired employees is exacerbated by the complex rules that make firing a bad employee nearly impossible in the first place. Managers must make heroic efforts to fire employees for misconduct. This process can include multiple reevaluations and appeals, often dragging out for months or even years. Firing a bad employee is so difficult at the IRS that the employees who underperform or are merely incompetent are often just tolerated or reassigned to a different position. The employees who actually do get fired after undergoing the lengthy separation process are not just bad – they are the worst of the worst. This is unacceptable. I will not allow this problem to persist. That’s why I introduced the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2016. My bill bans the IRS Commissioner from rehiring employees who get fired. These individuals got fired for a reason. The practice of routinely giving these bad apples a second chance is an insult to every hardworking or job-seeking person in this county. We must end it. Senator Richard Burr is the senior senator from North Carolina and is a member of the Senate Finance Committee. This op-ed was published in the Daily Caller.
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Tillis & Burr: Air Force Will Be Held Accountable Following Decision To Deactivate The 440th WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statements in response to a letter from leaders of the Air Force and Army certifying the deactivation of the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield: “I am surprised and deeply disappointed with the Army's decision to acquiesce to the Air Force's strategy for how they will complete training at Fort Bragg,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Now the burden is on the Fort Bragg commanders to demonstrate to Congress and the Fayetteville community that they have not jeopardized the needs of the Global Response Force to placate the reckless desires of budget cutters in the Pentagon. In my discussions with the former commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps and soldiers and airmen at Fort Bragg, they say it makes no sense, will negatively affect their flexibility, and will likely threaten their ability to provide the training needed to complete their mission. The fact that I received this update not from the Air Force, but from third parties, further undermines my confidence in this decision and galvanizes my commitment to holding the parties accountable. For as long as I am a U.S. Senator, the Air Force can fully expect me to require that they demonstrate, on a monthly basis, how they are meeting their obligation to provide assets at Pope Airfield and fulfilling the training requirements of our brave men and women.” “This is the latest in a series of decisions that could very well prevent our armed forces from being as prepared as they should be,” said Senator Richard Burr. “The 82nd Airborne is our global response force, often deployed to hot spots like Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. The Special Operations units that call Fort Bragg home require dedicated air support to properly train for the missions that America and our allies calls on them to perform. I’m concerned that this is going to negatively impact national security and decrease the readiness of combat units at Fort Bragg that are essential in the current fight against terrorism. We are depriving them of an important asset that they have relied on for decades and now is not the time to remove important resources from our troops.”
02.04.2016	02.04.16 Burr and Tillis Introduce Resolution Recognizing the Bravery of the Montagnard People During the Vietnam War WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced a resolution recognizing the heroic acts of the Montagnards, an indigenous tribespeople of Vietnam, and calling on the government of Vietnam to respect their human rights. The Montagnards fought shoulder to shoulder with the United States military during the Vietnam War and made many sacrifices alongside our troops. "I am honored to put forward this resolution to thank the Montagnards who joined with us in Vietnam and saved thousands of lives with their heroic actions," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina is home to many Montagnards and their contributions to the state are immeasurable. Their place American and Vietnamese history deserves recognition. I hope my colleagues will swiftly pass this resolution." “Today and every day, it is important to honor the Montagnards, who bravely fought alongside American forces in Vietnam,” said Senator Tillis. “Many Montagnards now call North Carolina home, and they make our local communities better places to live. It is critical that we do not forget about those who were not able to escape the confines of communism, as they continue to face persecution and harassment from the Vietnamese government.” Senator Burr also submitted comments for the Congressional record this week. More than 60,000 Montagnards assisted U.S. troops as interpreters, scouts, and soldiers during the war. After the Vietnam War, the U.S. resettled thousands of Montagnards as refugees to escape persecution from the Vietnamese government. Currently, the largest population of Montagnards outside of Vietnam resides in North Carolina, but the group also resettled in other states, including in California, Florida, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Washington. This resolution also condemns the Government of Vietnam for its ongoing and reported violations of the Montagnards' basic human rights, including the freedom of Christians to practice their faith without fear of persecution. You can read the text of this resolution here.
02.04.2016	02.04.16 NC & CO Senators Put Their Pride On The Line With Super Bowl 50 Wager WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) have accepted Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr’s (R-NC) challenge to put their NFL team pride on the line by wagering the delivery of a Senate floor speech on the outcome of Super Bowl 50 between the Carolina Panthers and the Denver Broncos. The wager requires the freshman Senator representing the losing team to deliver a speech on the Senate floor congratulating the Super Bowl champion that meets the following conditions: The losing freshman Senator must give specific shout outs to the Super Bowl champion’s head coach, quarterback, fan base, and detail the greatness of the Super Bowl champion’s home state. The losing Senators must wear a tie of the team color of the Super Bowl champion during the speech. The winning freshman Senator must be presiding over the Senate as the losing freshman Senator delivers his speech. For an added dose of humility, the written remarks must be reviewed and approved in advance by the winning Senators. Last week, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) fulfilled a NFC Championship Game wager he made with Senator Tillis by speaking on the Senate floor to humbly congratulate the Panthers and wish them luck in the Super Bowl. “This Sunday night, Panthers fans across the Carolinas and the rest of the nation will be rejoicing after the team wins its first Super Bowl,” said Senators Tillis and Burr. “We look forward to seeing our freshman colleague from Colorado take to the Senate floor as he acknowledges the passing of the mantle from Peyton Manning to Cam Newton as the NFL’s newest legend, praises the unwavering devotion of the Panthers fan base, and recognizes that the Panthers are truly one of the greatest teams in NFL history. We can only hope that Senator Gardner will conclude his speech by gifting Panthers fans with his best rendition of Neil Diamond’s ‘Sweet Caroline.’” “When Senators Tillis and Burr proposed this friendly Super Bowl wager, we didn’t have to think twice about accepting their challenge,” said Senators Gardner and Bennet. “We have 100% confidence in the Broncos and Peyton Manning. The legendary John Elway and Head Coach Gary Kubiak put together a championship caliber team, and we know their hard work and year-long preparation will pay off on Sunday. We are certain the best defense in the league will bring the Panthers offense to a halt, and the Broncos will return to Colorado with the Lombardi Trophy. On behalf of the state of Colorado and Broncos fans everywhere, we look forward to hearing the junior Senator from North Carolina, Senator Tillis, deliver a humbling speech on the Senate floor where he will congratulate the Denver Broncos on their hard fought victory, Peyton Manning’s second Super Bowl title, and the entire Broncos organization on their third Super Bowl victory.”
02.04.2016	02.04.16 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Somalia Jet Explosion: al-Qaida Remains a Threat WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the plane explosion in Somalia earlier this week: “While it is too early to confirm that extremists associated with al-Shabaab were responsible for the explosion on board a Daallo Airlines plane on Tuesday, it fits with the group’s public rhetoric, intent, and capabilities. It is a sobering reminder that while much of the public discourse on terrorist threats to the United States and our allies is focused on ISIL, we cannot discount the ever present global threat posed by al-Qa’ida and its affiliates.”
02.04.2016	02.04.16 Sen. Burr Presses HHS to Take Action on Zika Virus WASHINGTON – Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Chairman of Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, urged Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell to use the tools created by the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act of 2006 (PAHPA) to accelerate the research of the Zika virus as well as the vaccines and medicines to combat it. This virus could represent a particularly serious public health threat to pregnant women and their unborn children. In a letter dated yesterday, the Senators wrote: “As we saw with the Ebola outbreak in 2014, it is critical that clinicians and travelers have timely and accurate information in the face of an emerging threat. This is all the more important because of the unique threat that infection with the Zika virus appears to present to pregnant women and their unborn children.” Senator Burr added today: “We must be prepared to protect the American people from the full range of threats we may face. While we are continuing to learn more about this serious virus each day, Zika is the kind of threat I had in mind when I worked on the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act. The Department of Health and Human Services must take advantage of the tools Congress provided the agency to protect Americans, especially pregnant women and their unborn children. Now is the time to put the lessons we learned from previous disease outbreaks into practice to combat this virus.” The Zika virus is believed to be primarily spread though mosquitos and could reach parts of the United States in which 60 percent of the American population resides. Much remains unknown about the virus that has been spreading explosively in South America. It appears as if the virus is linked to microcephaly in infants born to mothers who were infected during pregnancy and Guillain-Barre syndrome. This week, health officials in Texas reported a case of Zika virus in which it appears the infected individual contracted the virus through sexual contact with an individual infected while traveling abroad. PAHPA created the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response to ensure coordinated preparation for and responses to public health emergencies. PAHPA also created and charged the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority with accelerating the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures to protect Americans from identified and emerging public health threats. Sen. Burr was the author of PAHPA in 2006; he also sponsored and led the reauthorization effort in 2013. Read the full text of the letter here.
01.23.2016	01.23.16 Op-ed: Conservation Fund benefits our state Preserving North Carolina’s precious landmarks and landscapes is one of the most important promises we can keep for our future and the Land and Water Conservation Fund helps us make good on those promises. Each year in North Carolina, this fund helps local communities preserve land for small-scale parks and ballfields, as well as grander plans like the recent addition of 70 acres to the Pilot Mountain site. Unfortunately, this year saw the expiration of this fund, and many in Congress were willing to look the other direction while money drained away that’s typically used to make small towns and cities better. But not me. I used every legislative tool available to ensure this well-loved fund continues and I’m proud when I see my hard work manifest itself in important plans like the Pilot Mountain enhancement. With Pilot Mountain set to gain 70 acres in 2016, this means that there will be greater access to one of the state’s most treasured monuments. Many in North Carolina have applauded the new addition and noted that these types of ventures maintain our commitment to conservation. And perhaps most importantly, the conservation fund doesn’t take a dime of taxpayer money. LWCF is funded by royalties and is an investment in the future of our nation’s scenic treasures and does not add to the nation’s debt. Nationally, this fund has created outdoor recreation opportunities in every state and 98 percent of counties across the country. The fund has protected critical lands in national parks, wildlife refuges, national forests, and Civil War battlefields, among others. For 50 years, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has been a success financially and has given much back to our local communities. In North Carolina, outdoor recreation contributes $7.5 billion to the state’s economy and supports 95,000 jobs. Let’s review a few of the significant gains the LWCF has helped facilitate for conservation in North Carolina. For North Carolina alone, many spectacular sites, like the Pisgah National Forest and Blue Ridge Parkway, were completed with LWCF funds. Catawba Falls was acquired in 2010 through the LWCF and has made this popular waterfall open to the public. The 88 acres were purchased from Foothills Conservancy of NC to open up long-sought public trail access to Catawba Falls, which was added to Pisgah National Forest in 1989, also thanks to LWCF. The Nature Conservancy recently transferred 536 acres in parts of Buncombe, Henderson and Rutherford counties to the North Carolina Division of Parks and Recreation, and will add them to Chimney Rock State Park. I’ve pledged to continue fighting for the Land and Water Conservation Fund and will fight another round in 2016. I want to make sure that the LWCF can fully realize its promise to conserve parks, open spaces and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing and outdoor recreation for future generations. Richard Burr (R-NC) is the senior senator from North Carolina. This op-ed was published by the Greensboro News & Record.
01.22.2016	01.22.16 Advisory: CIA Director Brennan to Testify in Open Senate Intelligence Committee Hearing Next Week WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) will hold an open hearing next week with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Director John Brennan. This open hearing will examine the CIA’s intelligence activities and its ability to meet diverse mission requirements in support of our national security. Details Hearing: Open Senate Intelligence Hearing with CIA Director John Brennan Witness: CIA Director John Brennan When: Tuesday, January 26, 2016 at 2:45pm Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 This is the fourth open hearing this Congress and follows National Counterterrorism Center Director Nicholas Rasmussen’s testimony in February, Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey’s testimony in July, and National Security Agency Director Michael Rogers’ testimony in September.
01.18.2016	01.18.16 Burr Statement on Developments with Iran Today, Senator Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the developments this weekend with Iran: "I am pleased that five innocent American hostages are finally coming home, but I remain convinced that the President's deal with Iran is just a clear and direct roadmap to a nuclear device and the means to deliver it. The President should never have traded away our leverage over a terrorist regime, a regime that is still holding Americans hostage."
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Senators to IRS: Stop Rehiring Fired Employees WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Dean Heller (R-NV) and Mike Enzi (R-Wyo) introduced the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2016. The Treasury watchdog found unsettling evidence that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has repeatedly rehired employees who were fired for poor conduct and performance after a lengthy examination process. This legislation will require the IRS to stop this practice. The watchdog’s report even found that an employee who had “Do Not Rehire” stamped on their personnel file was rehired. “IRS employees who were fired for serious offenses and gross misconduct like fraud, falsification of documents, and unauthorized access to taxpayer information shouldn’t be allowed back in the agency at all,” said Burr. “This is insulting to the American people and the employees who do serve honorably, and simply gives bad actors a chance to bilk the taxpayers a second time. Even an individual with ‘DO NOT REHIRE’ stamped on their files was mistakenly hired again. This practice must end now. It is the definition of insanity.” “The lack of accountability at federal agencies is destroying Americans’ trust in their government,” said Isakson, a member of the Senate Committee on Finance. “As chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I have been working to strengthen accountability measures for VA employees. Similarly, I strongly support this measure to hold errant employees at the Internal Revenue Service appropriately accountable and help restore Americans’ trust in the IRS." “With so many scandals calling into question the integrity of the IRS, the agency already has a tough enough time convincing taxpayers it should be taken seriously,” said Heller. “This is why the IRS should have a greater ability to fire employees who commit misconduct. More importantly, it is incomprehensible that those same employees, who commit serious offenses, are allowed to be re-hired by the IRS, especially if the IRS has concerns over budgetary constraints. If the IRS is to ever restore its credibility and regain Nevadan taxpayers’ trust, this behavior must stop.” “The IRS continues to confuse the stick with the carrot, rewarding their employees’ bad behavior with favorable outcomes,” Enzi said. “Common sense would suggest that an employee who was fired for misconduct or poor performance shouldn’t be hired back, but the IRS’s outrageous and bewildering behavior continues to defy logic. This legislation is another important piece of the puzzle to help bring needed accountability to an agency that refuses to operate within reason.” Representatives Kristi Noem (R-SD) and Peter Roskam (R-IL) introduced H.R. 3724: Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2015 last year. The bill will also prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue Service who was involuntarily separated from service for misconduct. Bill text available here.
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Sen. Burr Statement on President’s Gun Grab WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement after the President released his plan to limit the sale of firearms to, and by, law abiding citizens: “I’ve been committed to protecting the Second Amendment rights of Americans since I was elected. I will continue to defend our constitutional rights, regardless of President Obama’s personal preferences.”
12.30.2015	12.30.15 Sen. Burr Recaps Strategic Legislative Accomplishments for 2015 WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) revisited several of his high profile legislative accomplishments for 2015 including an important conservation program renewal, education funding for low-income families, military reforms and transportation improvements. Senator Burr said: “Over the last year, I successfully wrote several bills that have since become law. These new laws will enhance the lives of our veterans, help children from low-income families get better education and enable transportation improvements for high traffic corridors. I’m pleased that I delivered for North Carolina in 2015. Every day, my staff and I work to make sure that our federal dollars are efficiently used in the state. This year was a productive one in Congress, and that means $24 million to children from low-income families, and a revitalized military in North Carolina. As Intel Committee Chairman, I introduced legislation which was signed into law that addresses serious weaknesses in our ability to protect Americans against cyber-attacks. I can and will keep fighting for North Carolina families.” A few of Sen. Burr’s legislative successes from 2015: Title II Education Funding Reform in the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) In addition to repealing the common core mandate, ESSA includes language sponsored by Burr that fixes an inequity in federal education funding that for 15 years has not only shortchanged North Carolina’s teachers and schools, but also the low-income students they serve across North Carolina. The funding fix will add $24 million each year for school programs. Senator Burr introduced on April 16th 2015. Signed into law December 10th 2015. Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act helps protect Americans’ personal privacy by taking steps to stop future cyber-attacks before they happen. This legislation creates an environment that encourages the sharing of information about cyber threats, allowing all participants to get a better understanding of the current threats that may be used against them. A series of high profile hacks exposed the personal information of millions of Americans to online identity thieves, including Americans with high level security clearances. Senator Burr introduced the legislation on March 17th 2015 and was marked up the following day. Signed into law December 18th 2015. Land and Water Conservation Fund Reauthorization (LWCF) Sen. Burr began advocating for a full, permanent reauthorization of the popular conservation fund several years ago. The authorization of the fund expired in September, but after leading the fight in the Senate to renew this fund, Congress passed a three year extension. Established in 1964, the LWCF is one of America’s most successful federal conservation programs, conserving irreplaceable lands and improving outdoor recreation opportunities throughout the nation. It requires no taxpayer funding. Senator Burr introduced February 3rd 2015. Signed into law December 18th 2015. North Carolina Highway Improvements in the Transportation Bill, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) Included in the comprehensive transportation bill (FAST Act) are provisions introduced by Senators Tillis and Burr that amend the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 and designate the following North Carolina highways as high priority corridors and future interstates: Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor from Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner to the Port at Morehead City, and U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison. The designation of the highways advances the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that will become part of the Interstate system once they are fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. Sens. Tillis and Burr introduced the legislation on May 14th 2015. Signed into law on December 4th 2015. Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015 (MSORA) The Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015 (MSORA), introduced by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Defense to directly report sex offenders convicted or punished under article 47 of the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR) administered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website. Previously, sex offenders convicted under UCMJ were required to self-report to a local jurisdiction upon their release. Under these new laws, communities can be fully aware of former offenders in their neighborhoods. Senator Burr introduced the legislation February 6th 2015. Signed into law in June of 2015.
12.24.2015	12.24.15 Senators Burr and Tillis Recap North Carolina Military and Veterans Related Legislative and Policy Gains for 2015 WASHINGTON – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) today recapped the significant gains for veterans, military bases and the military organizations that call North Carolina home. Senators Burr and Tillis worked over the year to secure critical military upgrades that will ensure that America and the state remain prepared amid growing terrorist threats, as well as important legislation for veterans who have suffered from exposure to toxic chemicals at both Camp Lejeune and aboard C-123s in Vietnam. Additionally, all North Carolina military installations are scheduled to receive significant infrastructure upgrades as a result of legislation passed in 2015. "2015 represented a number of legislative gains for both military installations and organizations in North Carolina, as well as national gains for veterans and active duty personnel," said Senator Burr. "Senator Tillis and I worked together to maintain North Carolina's status as a premier military hub by successfully securing additional capabilities at Seymour Johnson Air Base (NC) as well as the preservation of the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg (NC). It's critical for both North Carolina and the country to continue to support our Special Operations Forces, given the current terrorist threats to both the homeland and our allies overseas. Additionally, I continued to fight for justice on issues such as those affected by the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune (NC) and those vets across the country who were finally granted disability status from illnesses caused by Agent Orange exposure in C-123s planes over Vietnam and afterwards. The Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015 was signed into law this year and closed a loophole that predators have used to evade law enforcement detection for years. 2015 was a productive year for our efforts to make a difference in NC and nationally and I'm proud of our accomplishments." “Senator Burr and I worked hard this past year to preserve and strengthen North Carolina’s rich military tradition and advocate on behalf of the more than 800,000 North Carolinians who have honorably served our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “We fought against the Pentagon’s strategically flawed attempt to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield, and I was proud to join Jerry Ensminger, Senator Burr, and the Camp Lejeune Community Assistance Panel in the successful effort to pressure the VA to provide a level of justice for the victims of toxic water contamination at Camp Lejeune. While 2015 resulted in several key victories for our state’s military and veteran communities, there is still more to be done, and I look forward to continue working with Senator Burr and the rest of the North Carolina Congressional delegation to deliver more results for our great state.” Accomplishments Camp Lejeune (NC): In 2015, after sustained Congressional pressure from both Tillis and Burr, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water who are diagnosed with one or more of eight illnesses will be granted disability status. Description: The Department of Veterans Affairs initially refused to acknowledge that exposure to toxic chemicals in Camp Lejeune’s water from 1953-1987 caused a number of serious illnesses that in some cases led to death. In 2012, the President signed Senator Burr’s bill to require veterans and their families’ access to VA healthcare if they were stationed at the base and fell ill as a result. In 2015, the VA has expanded presumption to include disability compensation for eight conditions. The reversal demonstrates a major policy shift and a significant victory for victims of toxic exposure for decades at Camp Lejeune. 440th Airlift Wing: Senators Burr and Tillis have engaged the various military services to ensure North Carolina’s military readiness by maintaining the 440th Airlift Wing. The Senators introduced and passed an amendment requiring the Air Force to validate its plan to close the 440th Airlift Wing with the Army. Description: The legislation postponed Air Force action to September 30th, 2016 and permits the Air Force to continue only after it validates its plan with the supported commanders. Air Force is implementing a plan to consolidate its C-130 fleet and reduce its overall number of C-130H. Under the current plan, the Air Force wants to deactivate the 440th Airlift Wing, a reserve airlift unit comprised of approximately 1300 personnel stationed at Pope Army Airfield. The Air Force contends it can support Fort Bragg from remote airbases; Army commanders contend it is logistically unfeasible and the 440th fulfills the most pressing training requirements of the global reaction force. Seymour Johnson Air Force Base KC-46A Tanker: Seymour Johnson was recently selected as the preferred alternative for the basing of the KC-46A tanker fleet over three other states. Seymour Johnson is currently undergoing an environmental study prior to the decision being final. Description: Sens. Burr, Tillis and other members of Congress have advocated for Seymour Johnson as an ideal location for this new tanker fleet, which will be the first on the East Coast and an important element of military readiness. This preliminary study is an indicator that the Air Force is serious about basing the tanker fleet at Seymour Johnson. Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015: Signed into law in June of 2015. Description: The Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015 (MSORA), introduced by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Defense to directly report sex offenders convicted or punished under article 47 of the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR) administered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website. Previously, sex offenders convicted under UCMJ were required to self-report to a local jurisdiction upon their release. A Department of Defense Inspector General report issued in 2014 revealed an estimated 242 of 1,312 released sex offenders failed to self-report under the previous law. Given the significant DOD communities in 2015, under these new laws, communities can be fully aware of former offenders in their neighborhood. C-123 Toxic Exposure to Agent Orange: Department of Veteran Affairs extended presumptive condition status for Agent Orange exposure to veterans serving on C123K aircraft after Vietnam. Description: The VA’s reversal of position came after four years of Congressional pressure and multiple medical studies. The latest Institute of Medicine’s report on Post-Vietnam Dioxin Exposure in Agent Orange-Contaminated C-123 Aircraft left the VA with little choice but to begin approving claims after sustained pressure from Congress. Senator Burr first began pressing for answers in 2011. The Omnibus Bill passed by the House and Senate includes a number of important military construction projects for North Carolina. Navy Procurement 6 additional F-35B for Marine Corps aviation. Air Force Procurement KC-46A – Tankers to be stationed at Seymour Johnson. C-130H Modernization – Air National Guard. Improvements to include 145th Airlift Wing in Charlotte, NC Engine Modifications - $33,200,000 8 Blade Propellers - $10,000,000 In flight prop balancing - $1,500,000 Electronic Propeller Control System - $13,500,000 Avionics upgrades - $70,000,000 Army National Guard Apache Helicopters – Sec. 8120 prohibits any funds from being used to transfer more than the previously agreed upon 48 Apache helicopters from the National Guard to the active Army prior to June 30, 2016. Military Construction North Carolina will receive $412 million in specified Military Construction. Approved projects include: Camp Lejeune: 2nd Radio Battalion Complex Operations Consolidation, Simulator Integration/Range Control Facility, Special Operations Combat Service Support Facility, Special Operations Marine Battalion Company/Team Facilities Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station: KC 130J Enlisted Air Crew Trainer Facility, Unmanned Aircraft System Facilities New River: Operational Trainer Facility, Radar Air Traffic Control Facility Addition Seymour Johnson AFB: Air Traffic Control Tower/Base Ops Facility Fort Bragg: Butner Elementary School Replacement, SOF 21 STS Operations Facility, Special Operations Battalion Operations Facility, Special Operations Indoor Range, Special Operations Intelligence Training Center, Special Operations Special Tactics Facility Charlotte/Douglas IAP: Replace C-130 Squadron Operations Facility
12.23.2015	12.23.15 Op-ed: The Debate Over Encryption: Stopping Terrorists From ‘Going Dark’ While the terrorist attacks in Paris, San Bernardino, Calif., and Garland, Texas, have brought discussions about encryption to the front pages, criminals in the U.S. have been using this technology for years to cover their tracks. The time has come for Congress and technology companies to discuss how encryption—encoding messages to protect their content—is enabling murderers, pedophiles, drug dealers and, increasingly, terrorists. Consumer information should be protected, and the development of stronger and more robust levels of encryption is necessary. Unfortunately, the protection that encryption provides law-abiding citizens is also available to criminals and terrorists. Today’s messaging systems are often designed so that companies’ own developers cannot gain access to encrypted content—and, alarmingly, not even when compelled by a court order. This allows criminals and terrorists, as the law enforcement community says, to “go dark” and plot with abandon. Leaving aside the terrorism challenges, encryption is affecting the investigations of kidnapping, child pornography, gang activity and other crimes. Federal, state, local and tribal law-enforcement officers can obtain legal authority to conduct electronic communications surveillance on terrorists and criminals. But encrypted devices and applications sometimes block access to the data. This means that even when the government has shown probable cause under the Fourth Amendment, it cannot acquire the evidence it seeks. Technology has outpaced the law. The core statute, the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, was enacted in 1994, more than a decade before the iPhone existed. The law requires telecommunications carriers—for instance, phone companies—to build into their equipment the capability for law enforcement to intercept communications in real time. The problem is that it doesn’t apply to other providers of electronic communications, including those supporting encrypted applications. Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey has said that one of the two Garland, Texas, shooters who died carrying out an attack on a Muhammad art exhibit in May exchanged 109 messages with an operative overseas. “We have no idea what he said,” Mr. Comey told the Senate this month, “because those messages were encrypted.” He described this as a “big problem”—and I couldn’t agree more. Last month Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. released an in-depth report specifically on “smartphone encryption and public safety.” Many cellphones, including those designed by Apple and Google, now encrypt by default all the data they store, which is accessible only with a passcode. No one, not even the manufacturer, can access a passcode-locked phone. Apple has even touted this as a feature, telling customers that “it’s not technically feasible for us to respond to government warrants for the extraction of this data from devices.” The report states that “passcode-protected devices render lawful court orders meaningless and encourage criminals to act with impunity. The ultimate losers in this equation are crime victims.” The authors conclude: “Congress should enact a statute that requires any designer of an operating system for a smartphone or tablet manufactured, leased, or sold in the U.S. to ensure that data on its devices is accessible pursuant to a search warrant. Such a law would be well within Congress’s Commerce Clause powers, and does not require costly or difficult technological innovations.” The challenges presented by encryption extend to financial transactions. In August Sen. Elizabeth Warren wrote letters to six federal agencies voicing concerns that banks were using Symphony, an encrypted messaging system that could prevent regulators from detecting illegal activities. The letter came shortly after New York’s top banking regulator, the New York State Department of Financial Services, raised the same concern with several major banks and Symphony’s developer. In response, the banks agreed to store decryption keys with independent custodians, and Symphony agreed to retain electronic communications for seven years. All parties also agreed to a periodic review process to make sure that oversight keeps in sync with new technologies. It would seem to me that daily financial flows shouldn’t command more attention than terrorist or criminal communications, yet here we are. Although the agreement described above may not be the solution for all encrypted communications, it does show that cooperative solutions are possible. I and other lawmakers in Washington would like to work with America’s leading tech companies to solve this problem, but we fear they may balk. When Apple objected to a recent court order in a New York criminal case requiring it to unlock an iPhone running iOS 7—an operating system that Apple can unlock—the company refused, arguing: “This is a matter for Congress to decide.” On that point, Apple and I agree. It’s time to update the law. Mr. Burr, a Republican senator from North Carolina, is the chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. This op-ed was published by the Wall Street Journal.
12.18.2015	12.18.15 Burr Statement on Omnibus WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement after voting against the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (HR.2029): “Today, I voted against the large scale spending in the Omnibus bill. There was much in this bill that I have supported, championed and voted for as standalone measures, including vital defense and intelligence related bills and reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Unfortunately, these critical national priorities were buried in a massive 2,000 plus page omnibus package. The spending caps I voted for in 2011 were an important step towards fiscal sanity, but the omnibus obliterates those intelligent limits on spending. The omnibus also wastes another opportunity to reform the tax code, which at this point, is negligently complex and patently unfair. Finally, I am disappointed that the omnibus did not take enough steps to rein in the Administration’s overreaching regulatory agenda. Americans trust us to appropriate and legislate responsibly, and I could not support this legislation.”
12.18.2015	12.18.15 Burr, Tillis Welcome Charlotte Courthouse Improvements WASHINGTON – Today, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC) welcome the inclusion of funding that will allow for long-awaited judicial infrastructure priorities in appropriations legislation. This will allow for an annex to the Jonas courthouse in Charlotte which opened in 1934 and is not large enough to meet current needs. North Carolina’s Senators released the following statement on the funding: “We applaud Senator Boozman’s work to secure sufficient funding for our courthouse system, including the courthouse in Charlotte. The Charlotte courthouse has been sitting on the priority list for necessary upgrades to our judicial infrastructure for far too long. These funds will ensure that the federal judicial system has adequate resources to swiftly and fairly process cases.”
12.17.2015	12.17.15 Burr on Conservation Fund and Senate Passage of Lautenberg Chemical Safety Act WASHINGTON – Today, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act: “As a co-sponsor and longtime supporter of the Lautenberg bill, I applaud the tireless efforts of Senators Inhofe and Udall to finally update our chemical safety standards that keep Americans safe. I’m also pleased that we reached bipartisan agreement to extend the Land and Water Conservation Fund for three years after Congress let it expire at the end of September. This short-term reauthorization is a good starting point to get this important program back on its feet. LWCF is designed to protect our natural treasures for generations to come, and I will continue to fight for its permanent reauthorization.”
12.17.2015	12.17.15 Burr and Tillis Applaud Dept. of Veterans Affairs Decision to Finally Grant Disability Status to Camp Lejeune Veterans WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) made the following statements on today’s U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs announcement that victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water who are diagnosed with one of eight illnesses will be granted disability status: “The VA has conceded that it will no longer deny disability benefits to Camp Lejeune victims based on ridiculous scientific claims,” said Sen. Burr. “This is victory for those who have long suffered as a result of the toxic exposure to chemicals while serving our country at Camp Lejeune. In 2012, the President signed my legislation into law that provided health care to veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune and I will continue to advocate for them. I thank Jerry Ensminger for his unending support of Lejeune victims. God bless all of these men and women.” “The VA is finally granting some justice to veterans who were exposed to contaminated drinking water while assigned to Camp Lejeune,” said Sen. Tillis. “The victims of this tragedy have waited far too long to receive disability benefits, and I thank Jerry Ensminger, Senator Burr, and the entire Camp Lejeune Community Assistance Panel for their tireless efforts in advocating on behalf of the victims and keeping pressure on the VA to do the right thing.” The eight illnesses are as follows: Kidney Cancer Liver Cancer Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Leukemia Multiple Myeloma Scleroderma Parkinson's Disease Aplastic Anemia / Myelodysplastic Syndromes In July 2015, after years of Congressional pressure, Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced that the VA would begin the process to grant presumptive disability status to veterans at Camp Lejeune who have certain cancers and conditions known to be associated with long term exposure to the chemicals that contaminated the base water system from 1953-1987. In September 2015, both Senator Burr and Senator Tillis pressed the VA at a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing on Camp Lejeune for answers about granting Lejeune veterans disability status. Bureaucratic red tape and internal resistance at the VA delayed a final decision for years. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This legislation, introduced by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina.
12.16.2015	12.16.15 Burr, Feinstein: Committee Is Not Investigating Debate Comments WASHINGTON – Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), today released the following statement: “The Committee is not investigating anything said during last night’s Republican Presidential debate.”
12.09.2015	12.09.15 $24 Million per Year for NC Schools, Common Core Repeal Heads to President’s Desk WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate passed the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) by a 85-12 vote, sending the bill to President Obama’s desk. ESSA ends the unpopular No Child Left Behind Program, Common Core mandate and also revamps education programs across the country. In addition to repealing the common core mandate, ESSA includes language sponsored by Burr that will fix an inequity in federal education funding that for 15 years has not only shortchanged North Carolina’s teachers and schools, but also the low-income students they serve across our state. The funding fix will add $24 million each year for school programs. “This is a big deal,” said Sen. Burr. “Making sure that low-income children regardless of where they live get their fair share of funding could be the education civil rights issue of our generation. Congress has the obligation to properly fund schools that need this funding the most. It will bring an additional $24 million per year in funding to poorest children in North Carolina and put a stop to the Common Core mandate.” Education officials in North Carolina have said that the additional funding could allow school districts to hire teacher assistants. Today’s vote marks the final stop before heading to the President’s desk.
12.08.2015	12.08.15 Feinstein, Burr Legislation Would Require Tech Companies to Report Online Terrorist Activity Washington—Senate Intelligence Committee Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) today introduced the Requiring Reporting of Online Terrorist Activity Act, a bill to require technology companies to report online terrorist activity to law enforcement. The bill would not require companies to monitor customers or undertake any additional action to turn up terrorist activity. Rather, it requires that if companies become aware of terrorist activity such as attack planning, recruitment or distribution of terrorist material, they must report that information to law enforcement. This provision is modeled on a law that requires technology companies to report online child pornography when they become aware of it. “We’re in a new age where terrorist groups like ISIL are using social media to reinvent how they recruit and plot attacks,” Senator Feinstein said. “That information can be the key to identifying and stopping terrorist recruitment or a terrorist attack, but we need help from technology companies. This bill doesn’t require companies to take any additional actions to discover terrorist activity, it merely requires them to report such activity to law enforcement when they come across it. Congress needs to do everything we can to help intelligence and law enforcement agencies identify and prevent terrorist attacks, and this bill is a step in the right direction.” “Terror groups have become adept at taking advantage of social media platforms to spread their message,” Senator Burr said. “Social media is one part of a large puzzle that law enforcement and intelligence officials must piece together to prevent future attacks. It’s critical that Congress works together to ensure that law enforcement and intelligence officials have the tools available to keep Americans safe. The stakes have never been higher and having cooperation with these outlets will help save lives here and abroad.” This legislation was approved unanimously by the Senate Intelligence Committee in June as part of the annual intelligence authorization bill, but was later removed from the bill in order to allow the underlying legislation to move through the Senate. The requirements of this standalone bill are the same as those approved unanimously by the committee earlier this year. Examples According to press reports, around the time of last week’s deadly attack in San Bernardino, Calif., one of the shooters, Tashfeen Malik, posted her allegiance to ISIL on her Facebook page. Facebook removed the account because the act was a violation of the company’s rules. Prior to his death, Syrian-based terrorist Junaid Hussein contacted and radicalized individuals and incited attempted terrorist attacks in the United States and the United Kingdom. He regularly used social media sites like Twitter and switched among multiple user accounts to continue posting after Twitter shut down individual accounts. Press Contact
12.04.2015	12.04.15 NC Road and Infrastructure Improvements Head to the President’s Desk, Soon to Become Law WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate last night voted on the final version of the five-year highway bill, H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which authorizes federal surface transportation programs through fiscal year (FY) 2020. In a vote of 83-16, the bill now heads to the President’s desk and will be signed into law. Included in the final legislation are provisions previously introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) that amend the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 and designate the following North Carolina highways as high priority corridors and future interstates: Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor from Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner to the Port at Morehead City, and U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison. The designation of the highways would advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that will become part of the Interstate system once they are fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. “I am pleased that we were able to come together and pass a bipartisan long-term highway bill that will help ensure that the Raleigh-Norfolk and US-70 corridors soon become part of the Interstate system,” said Sen. Tillis. “The inclusion of the provisions improving North Carolina’s infrastructure is a direct result of our state’s Congressional delegation working together as a bipartisan team. The end result will be tremendous benefits for the people of North Carolina, including enhanced local economic development, reduced traffic congestion, and improved access to our military bases.” “This five year deal will ensure that North Carolina’s critical highway corridors will see needed infrastructure updates,” said Sen. Burr. “I’m thankful for Sen. Tillis’ work on this bill and I’m encouraged that the Senate and House produced bipartisan legislation that will solve many of the United States’ transportation issues, as well as contributing economic benefits to the state. I look forward to the President signing this into law.”
12.02.2015	12.02.15 Senators Fight to Hold IRS Bureaucrats Accountable with New Legislation WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Chuck Grassley (R- IA), Dean Heller (R-NV) Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Tim Scott (R-SC) introduced the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Accountability Act of 2015. This legislation will keep IRS bureaucrats accountable to the American people by giving the IRS Commissioner new authority to fire senior executives who have failed in their performance or committed misconduct. This legislation is based on a law Congress passed last year in the wake of the VA health care scandal that enables the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to fire senior executives for misconduct. Currently, the IRS Commissioner does have the authority to fire high ranking employees for certain forms of misconduct, but has not yet used this authority against those who engaged in political targeting of taxpayers. The Administration has claimed that only mismanagement occurred at the IRS and that mismanagement is not a crime and has used this logic to justify its failure to act in the case of Lois Lerner and others who targeted Americans based on their political beliefs. This bill seeks to rectify this problem by giving the Commissioner clear authority to fire employees who fail to meet the standards of conduct and performance we should demand of senior managers at Federal agencies. “It’s extremely troubling that these problems have persisted for so long,” said Sen. Burr. “IRS employees must be held accountable for misconduct. Under the current policy, high ranking IRS officials can cheat on their taxes, lie to Congress, even threaten to audit people for personal gain – all without risking their six figure government salaries. This misconduct is absolutely unacceptable and I am confident we will put a stop to it. The American people deserve better.” “IRS employees should swiftly be held accountable for their misdeeds,” Sen. Enzi said. “This legislation could bring that needed accountability to an agency that has a history of serious misconduct.” “The American people are rightly frustrated when senior federal employees get away with misconduct and poor performance,” Sen. Grassley said. “It sends the wrong message that anything goes at the top tiers of the federal bureaucracy. Sometimes, a personnel change is what it takes to begin turning things around.” “The IRS has an obligation to taxpayers in Nevada and across the country to ensure it lives up to its mission of providing top quality service and enforcing the law with integrity and fairness to all,” said Sen. Heller. “It is totally unacceptable for IRS employees to discriminate and commit misconduct based on a taxpayers’ political views. There must be ramifications for this egregious behavior. Last year, I was an adamant supporter of giving the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the ability to fire senior executives for misconduct. Granting the IRS Commissioner similar authority to fire senior executives who have failed in the performance of their duties is desperately needed at the IRS.” “For far too long, so many of our taxpayer-funded federal agencies have operated unchecked under a culture of waste, fraud and abuse,” said Sen. Isakson. “As chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, I have seen firsthand the bureaucratic hurdles that prevented leadership at the scandal-ridden Department of Veterans Affairs from holding bad actors appropriately accountable for their misdeeds and inappropriate conduct. That’s why Congress gave the secretary of the VA firing authority to remove employees that are found to be directly responsible for misconduct. Mirroring the reforms we enacted last Congress at the VA, I strongly support this measure to hold errant employees at the Internal Revenue Service accountable and help restore Americans’ trust in the IRS.” “For too long the American people have been told there was nothing the IRS Commissioner could do to hold IRS employees who targeted conservative and religious organizations accountable for their actions,” said Sen. Scott. “That’s not good enough for the American people and that’s not good enough for me, and that’s why I’m pleased to join my colleagues to introduce legislation making it easier to fire poorly performing senior executives at the IRS. I am committed to working with my colleagues to get all the answers about what happened at the IRS and preventing it from happening again, because Americans on all ends of the political spectrum need to be able to live without fear of being targeted by their own government for their political beliefs.” This legislation applies to the highest ranking IRS employees in the Senior Executive Service (SES). Actionable examples of misconduct include but are not limited to: threatening to audit someone for personal gain, conducting a seizure without approval, assaulting, harassing or violating the civil rights of a taxpayer or a coworker, lying under oath, falsifying or destroying records, concealing information from Congress, underreporting income, and failing to file a tax return on time. The IRS Accountability Act has been endorsed by the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) and is part of a package of bills Sen. Burr has introduced to clean up the mess at the IRS. In October, Sen. Burr introduced the No Bonuses fox Tax Cheats Act, which would prohibit IRS employees who cheat on their taxes from getting tax-payer funded bonuses.
12.02.2015	12.02.15 NC Road and Infrastructure Improvements Clear Hurdle in Highway Bill Conference WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives conferees yesterday approved a final version of the five-year highway bill, H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) authorizing federal surface transportation programs through fiscal year (FY) 2020. Included in the final legislation are provisions previously introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) that amend the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 and designate the following North Carolina highways as high priority corridors and future interstates: Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor from Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner to the Port at Morehead City, and U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison. The designation of the highways would advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that will become part of the Interstate system once they are fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. “I am pleased that the Senate and House were able to agree on a five-year highway bill that would designate the Raleigh-Norfolk and U.S. 70 corridors as future interstates,” said Sen. Tillis. “This legislation would produce long-lasting benefits for North Carolina, including reduced traffic congestion, improved access to military bases, and increased investments in our state’s transportation and infrastructure.” “With North Carolina highway improvements locked into the final highway bill, road upgrades are looking more promising than ever before,” said Sen. Burr. “This is an enormous step in the right direction, and these improvements are vital for our state's infrastructure and encourages economic expansion by connecting some of the east coast’s largest ports to North Carolina’s cities and towns.” The bill will return to the House and Senate for a final vote.
11.20.2015	11.20.15 Burr and Tillis Question Obama Administration On Release Of GITMO Prisoner WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC), along with Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS), John Boozman (R-AR), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Susan Collins (R-ME) sent letters to the Secretary of Defense, Ashton Carter, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., expressing concern over the Obama Administration’s recent release of Shaker Aamer from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. The letters note that the notification of transfer for Mr. Aamer did not list the Joint Chiefs of Staff as one of the entities “concurring” and “approving” of the transfer, as is normally the case. This indicates that the CJCS did not agree with the Administration’s decision to release Shaker Aamer. The letters go on to request Secretary Carter and General Dunford answers to questions about this transfer to the Senate and House Armed Services, Intelligence, Foreign Relations, Homeland Security, and Appropriations Committees. The full text of the letters can be found here and here. Senators Tillis and Burr oppose President Obama’s short-sighted proposal to close Guantanamo Bay and transfer the world’s most dangerous terrorists to prisons in the United States. The Senate recently passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in a resoundingly bipartisan 91-3 vote, which included a provision that legally bans the transfer of terrorists at Guantanamo to facilities in the United States.
11.19.2015	11.19.15 Senator Burr Votes to End Common Core Mandate in Education Conference Vote, Fights for $24 Million to NC Schools WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today voted to approve the conference report for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). ESEA will end the unpopular No Child Left Behind Program, Common Core mandate and will also revamp education programs across the country. The conference report takes dramatic steps away from Washington's ever-growing influence in K-12 education by empowering teachers and principals to make better education choices on behalf of students. The report includes language sponsored by Burr that will fix an inequity in federal education funding that for 15 years has not only shortchanged North Carolina’s teachers and schools, but also the low-income students they serve across our state. The funding fix will add $24 million each year for school programs. “This legislation finally ends Washington’s Common Core mandate,” said Sen. Burr. “I look forward to local communities and schools again taking the lead in educating children, as opposed to the Washington bureaucracies that flourished over fifteen years under both No Child Left Behind and the Obama Administration's waivers. Additionally, low-income students in North Carolina stand to see a significant increase of 47%, up to $24 million per year, in education funding via an updated Title II program. After years of pretending to steer limited federal dollars to our poorest children, we are now actually getting that funding into the communities that need it most.” Senator Burr’s Title II funding alignment passed through Committee in March 2015. The conference report will now go before the Senate and House for a final vote before going to the President.
11.19.2015	11.19.15 Sen. Burr Congratulates the Senate Energy Committee’s Bipartisan Vote to Renew Conservation Fund WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement after the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee unanimously passed a full reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) within the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015: “I applaud the Committee for their vote to include the Murkowski-Cantwell compromise language that renews this important and popular conservation program. The legislation the Committee supported on a bipartisan basis makes some critical reforms to the program, but maintains the original intent of the fund which is to assist in the conservation of both scenic landscapes and local ballfields and parks, without asking taxpayers to pick up the tab. Despite some efforts to gut this program, today’s vote showed once again that the vast majority of LWCF supporters want the program to remain intact and for it to continue as it was originally designed fifty years ago. Furthermore, we cannot forget that the LWCF has already expired, so we must take action before the end of the year to ensure that the LWCF and critical conservation efforts can preserve landscapes for future generations.”
11.18.2015	11.18.15 Burr, Bennet Lead Senators Urging LWCF Reauthorization, Funding Before End of the Year Washington D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today led a bipartisan coalition of 14 senators requesting Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) include the permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) along with full mandatory funding in one of the bills Congress must pass before adjourning for the year. In a letter to Senators McConnell and Reid, the lawmakers wrote, “The LWCF is funded with offshore oil royalties and was designed not to use taxpayer dollars. However, since the creation of LWCF in 1965, more than $18 billion has been taken from the LWCF trust fund and diverted from its original conservation purpose. Because authorization for the LWCF expired on September 30th, offshore oil royalties are no longer being directed into the fund and there is no longer any guarantee that Congress will provide it the necessary funds. “For the economy, sportsmen, veterans, wildlife, and our kids and grandkids, we must permanently reauthorize LWCF – it is America’s most successful conservation program. We also strongly request that you include mandatory full funding in any must-pass year end legislation,” the lawmakers added. Senators Patrick J. Leahy (D-VT), Susan M. Collins (R-ME), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jon Tester (D-MT), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Kelly A. Ayotte (R-NH), Tom Udall (D-NM), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and Steve Daines (R-MT) also signed the letter.
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Senator Burr Introduces Lumbee Recognition Bill WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Burr introduced the Lumbee Recognition Act, a bill that would grant the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina federal recognition. “The Lumbee tribe has been seeking federal recognition for more than a century,” said Sen. Burr. “I am proud to reintroduce this legislation so that 55,000 members of the Lumbee community in North Carolina receive the same rights and benefits as members of other federally recognized tribes. Federal recognition for the Lumbee tribe is long-overdue and I will continue my efforts to ensure the Lumbee tribe finally gets the recognition they deserve.” North Carolina formally recognized the Lumbee Tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe, but it included a terribly unfair caveat - the Lumbees were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. The 1956 Lumbee Act actually prohibits the tribe from going through the Bureau of Indian Affairs process for full recognition. As the law now stands, the Lumbee Tribe can only be recognized by an act of Congress. Senator Burr’s Lumbee Recognition Act would provide the Lumbees with the equal recognition they deserve. ###
11.16.2015	11.16.15 Senator Burr: Suspend the Syrian Refugee Program WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement regarding President Obama’s program to bring Syrians to the United States, including North Carolina, after the news that an Islamic State fighter made his way into France as a part of the Syrian refugee wave: “The Syrian refugee program should be suspended until the American people are satisfied that they know exactly who the President is admitting into the country via this program. There is simply too much at stake and the security of the American people should be our top priority.”
11.14.2015	11.14.15 Senate Intel Committee Chairman Burr on Terror Attacks in Paris WASHINGTON – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Islamic State’s terror attacks in Paris yesterday in which over 120 people were slaughtered: “We are reminded once again of ISIL’s brutality -- a brutality that is not only a feature of daily life inside their so-called caliphate, but also is rapidly becoming their leading export and their vision for the world. We share not only in the grief of the French people but also in their resolve to confront, and eliminate, ISIL's barbarism.”
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Votes to Prohibit President from Closing Guantanamo Bay WASHINGTON - Today, through the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Congress voted to prohibit President Obama from making a dangerous decision to bring terrorists currently housed at Guantanamo Bay to the United States. Sen. Richard Burr(R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement after voting with 90 other senators from both parties to prevent the transfer of enemy combatants to U.S. soil: "The President signaled again today the he intends to bring enemy combatants to the United States,” said Sen. Burr. “This is yet another irresponsible decision being made for political reasons rather than on the basis of national security. Congress has spoken on this issue on numerous occasions; the President should listen to the will of the American people who have repeatedly rejected the President's plan to bring enemy combatants to the United States.”
11.04.2015	11.04.15 Sen. Burr Statement on the Passing of Former Rep. Howard Coble WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the passing of former Representative Howard Coble (NC-6): “Howard Coble was a friend, colleague and a mentor. He was a true statesman and represented his constituents with passion and effectiveness. Howard will be missed but never forgotten by all who called him friend. It’s a sad day for North Carolina but it is a joyous occasion that Howard is once again with his parents he loved so much.”
11.04.2015	11.04.15 Jones, Tillis, and Burr Take Action to Preserve Taxpayers’ Access to Cape Lookout WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3), Senator Richard Burr (NC), and Senator Thom Tillis (NC) are raising strong concerns with the National Park Service’s push for increased restrictions on public access to Cape Lookout National Seashore. The Park Service’s preferred alternative for a rule governing off-road vehicle (ORV) use at the seashore would, among other things, impose an $80 fee for a short term permit to take a vehicle to Cape Lookout, place restrictions on nighttime driving, and implement seasonal bans on motorized access to certain areas. Congressman Jones, Senator Burr, and Senator Tillis believe the Park Service can take a less restrictive course of action than the one they are proposing, one that is in keeping with the standard for improved taxpayer access Congress laid out in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015, while also protecting the natural resources of the national seashores. “There is absolutely no need for more restrictions. The National Park Service’s plan is a ‘solution’ in search of a problem that does not exist,” said Congressman Jones. “The Park Service’s existing ORV management strategy is serving its purpose. As I understand it, there have been no recorded deaths or injuries of sea turtles, shorebirds or other protected species at the seashore as a result of ORVs, day or night. In fact, over the past several years the number of sea turtle nests at the seashore has steadily increased, and the number of piping plovers, red knots, American oystercatchers and least terns have all improved as well.” “The economic impact of new restrictions would devastate the communities that serve the seashore,” continued Congressman Jones. “Fewer people will visit, the local economy will suffer, and more jobs will be lost. It just doesn’t make sense. Taxpayers have a right to access the recreational areas they own and pay for, and I will continue to fight to preserve that right.” “This is just one example of why Americans believe Washington bureaucrats are too involved in our local communities,” said Sen. Burr. “North Carolinians are seeking a balance between protecting wildlife and allowing recreational ocean side access. We have heard from our constituents who are concerned about the government’s decision and believe it is too restrictive and will ultimately hurt the economy in the surrounding communities. Visitors come to Cape Lookout because of the scenic beauty of the area and, just like the Park Service, want to see the wildlife thrive. These two groups don’t have mutually exclusive priorities.” “Cape Lookout National Seashore is a North Carolina landmark that visitors from across the country enjoy every day, and restrictions to access placed by the National Park Service ultimately hurt our local economies,” said Sen. Tillis. “Another example of overreach by the Federal government, I urge the National Park Service to find an alternate solution that protects the natural habitat of Cape Lookout while allowing the public to enjoy this beautiful part of the Outer Banks as well.” Click here to read the letter Congressman Jones wrote to the Park Service last year objecting to the proposed restrictions to the national seashores.
11.03.2015	11.03.15 Rouzer, Burr, Jones, Tillis send letter to FEMA urging for disaster relief Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) joined Senator Richard Burr, Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) and Senator Thom Tillis in writing a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Craig Fugate urging support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request for a Public Assistance disaster declaration in the amount of $31.7 million for Brunswick, Carteret, Dare, Hyde, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, and Pender Counties and statewide Hazard Mitigation as a result of severe storms and flooding that occurred during the period of September 25, 2015 through October 5, 2015. “The coastal flooding and subsequent damage resulting from the effects of Hurricane Joaquin caused significant damages and losses in our coastal communities,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I respectfully encourage FEMA Administrator Fugate to approve this request immediately so that our beach and infrastructure needs can be properly addressed. This is important for our local economy and will help provide for future flood protection.” “We must repair the beaches and dunes that were damaged by the storm,” said Senator Burr. “These environmental components are a critical piece of the system that protects North Carolina’s costal region. Failure to proceed with repairs in a timely manner could cause additional environmental and economic damage to our coastal communities that rely on tourism. In 2014, the tourism industry generated nearly half a billion dollars in Brunswick county alone.” “Coastal infrastructure is critical to protecting Eastern North Carolina against future severe weather events and supporting the local economy,” said Rep. Walter Jones. “I’m hopeful FEMA will provide the much-needed support and will continue to do everything I can to make sure our coastal communities remain resilient against natural and economic threats.” “The devastating effects of Hurricane Joaquin on the North Carolina coast caused damages that will continue to plague our beaches and local economies in the region for some time to come,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I urge FEMA Administrator Fugate to join our state in helping to rebuild our beach communities, ensuring a strong tourism industry that our local economies depend on.” In 2014, tourism in Brunswick and Carteret Counties alone generated more than $496 million and $324 million, respectively, and accounted for more than 8,000 jobs directly related to travel and tourism. From October 14 through October 22, 2015, FEMA, state, and local representatives conducted a Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) and determined that eight North Carolina counties exceeded the threshold of eligibility for FEMA’s Public Assistance program. For each category of damage, insurance coverage was considered and estimates reduced accordingly, such that PDA estimates only include uninsured losses. More than 85 percent of the total damages are to North Carolina’s coastal county beaches, which are eligible for aid under FEMA’s Disaster Assistance Fact Sheet DAP9580.8 “Eligible Sand Replacement on Public Beaches” dated 10/01/2009, 44 CFR §206.225, 44 CFR §206.226 and 44 CFR §206.226(j)(2). For a copy of the letter, please click here.
10.30.2015	10.30.15 Burr Votes Against Budget Bill that Relies on Accounting Gimmicks WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement after voting against H.R. 1314 early this morning: “I’m disappointed in this bill. Instead of actually offsetting the cost of $80 billion in additional spending, this budget deal relies on accounting gimmicks to make the numbers work. And because it does not address our fundamental fiscal imbalances, it is estimated that this bill will increase our national debt by another $1.3 trillion over the next year and a half. We owe our children and grandchildren an honest budget. It is deeply irresponsible to expect future generations to pay the price for our budget gimmicks and unsustainable spending. Additionally, this deal makes changes to crop insurance programs that would be devastating to North Carolina farmers. I can’t support a deal that erodes the real progress we made in 2011 on reducing spending and the deficit.”
10.29.2015	10.29.15 Burr and Tillis Applaud Air Force Decision to Establish New Flight Squadron in NC WASHINGTON –Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today applaud the United States Air Force’s preliminary decision to establish a new KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in 2019. The Senators were informed of the Air Force’s decision by the Chief of Staff of The Air Force, General Mark Welsh. Seymour Johnson will undergo an environmental impact study in the next nine months before the final basing decision in the spring of 2016. “The Air Force’s preliminary decision reaffirms North Carolina’s strategic value to the military,” said Sen. Burr. “This is tremendous news for Goldsboro, Wayne County and North Carolina and the community around the base. North Carolina is ideally situated both geographically and enterprise wide to best provide support and defense to our nation.” “Establishing the new flight squadron at Seymour Johnson reaffirms the fact that America’s military does not move unless North Carolina goes first,” said Sen. Tillis. “This is a testament to the outstanding work being done by the airmen of Seymour Johnson and the people of Goldsboro and Wayne County.” The KC-46A, is a multirole tanker that can refuel all U.S., allied and coalition military aircraft compatible with international aerial refueling procedures. Boeing designed the KC-46 to carry passengers, cargo and patients. The aircraft can detect, avoid, defeat and survive threats using multiple layers of protection. The KC-46A will augment the older KC-135 Stratotankers fleet of the 916th Air Refueling Wing at Seymour Johnson. The 916th ARW is one of the most honored flying units in the Air Force and the Pegasus will enhance the wing’s global mission to support U.S. forces and NATO allies in air-to-air refueling, cargo and passenger hauling and aeromedical evacuation. Senators Burr and Tillis applauded the Air Force decision as validation that North Carolina is the tip of the American spear.
10.29.2015	10.29.15 Senators Introduce Bill to Withhold Bonuses from Tax Cheat Bureaucrats WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), along with Senators John Thune (R-SD), Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Mike Enzi (R-WY) yesterday introduced No Bonuses for Tax Cheats Act, which withholds bonuses from federal employees who are delinquent on their taxes or have engaged in documented misconduct. “Today, we’re taking the first step to prevent bureaucrats from getting paid bonuses while fleecing the taxpayers at the same time,” said Senator Burr. “It’s unconscionable that federal employees are eligible for bonuses, paid for by Americans, while they have dodged the tax collectors. We know of too many examples of bad behavior from individuals like the IRS’s Lois Lerner, who targeted Americans for their political beliefs and received over $129,000 in bonuses even as she was engaged in wrongdoing. The IRS alone has paid over $2.8 million of taxpayer money to employees who haven’t paid their own taxes. This bill will put a stop to this egregious practice, once and for all.” “The fact that millions of dollars in bonuses have been given to IRS employees who haven’t been paying their taxes is alarming and completely unacceptable,” Senator Manchin said. “No federal agency is above the law nor should anyone be able to reward tax-delinquent employees with taxpayer-funded bonuses, least of all the IRS. We cannot expect the American taxpayer, especially those struggling to make ends meet, to have faith in their government when they discover the agency they are paying their taxes to is rewarding employees who haven’t paid theirs. I’m at glad to join this bipartisan effort to help fix this oversight.” “This bill is about as common sense as they come,” said Senator Thune. “At its core, it’s about accountability. This bill says to hard-working Americans that the federal bureaucrats who collect their taxes have the same responsibility they do in fulfilling tax obligations. No one, especially employees at the IRS, should be rewarded while willfully cheating on their taxes or otherwise engaging in misconduct.” “Simply put, IRS employees should live by the rules they enforce and should not receive a bonus while owing back taxes,” Senator Roberts said. “Our bill makes sense and is one small way to help restore faith in an agency that has lost the trust of the American people.” “It’s time to stop giving bonuses to IRS employees who behave badly,” Senator Enzi said. “Why should we reward IRS employees for late taxes or misconduct? This bill will provide a rational solution to ensure the IRS is more accountable to the American people.” In April of 2014, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) issued a report that found the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had paid $2.8 million in bonuses, as well as tens of thousands of hours of leave and hundreds of pay-step increases to employees who were tax delinquent or had committed serious misconduct, including fraud and drug use. More recently, in their April 2015 report, TIGTA found “108 of 364 employees with willful tax noncompliance cases closed between October 1, 2008 and September 30, 2013, received one or more awards, promotions, quality step increases or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments within one year after being disciplined for the tax noncompliance.” Sens Burr and Manchin initially introduced a version of this legislation in April, 2014. No Bonuses for Tax Cheats bill text No Bonuses for Tax Cheats one-pager
10.27.2015	10.27.15 Senate Passes Landmark Cybersecurity Bill WASHINGTON – Today, in a vote of 74-21, the Senate passed the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015. The bill, which is sponsored by Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), helps protect Americans’ personal privacy by taking steps to stop future cyber-attacks before they happen. This legislation creates an environment that encourages the sharing of information about cyber threats, allowing all participants to get a better understanding of the current threats that may be used against them. “This landmark bill finally better secures Americans private information from foreign hackers,” said Sen. Burr. “American businesses and government agencies face cyber-attacks on a daily basis. We cannot sit idle while foreign agents and criminal gangs continue to steal Americans’ personal information as we saw in the Office of Personnel Management, Target, and Sony hacks. This legislation gives the government and U.S. companies new voluntary collaborative tools so that they can work together against hackers that have been all too successful at stealing the personal information of millions of Americans for years. I thank Vice Chairman Feinstein for her tenacity in working to get this bill through the Senate.” “I'd like to thank Chairman Burr for standing shoulder-to-shoulder with me to get this bipartisan bill passed,” said Sen. Feinstein. “I'm very grateful for the work we’ve been able to do together. For a bill as technically difficult as this one, such cooperation was absolutely necessary. This bill will allow companies and the government to voluntarily share information about cyber threats and the defensive measures they can implement to protect their networks. We took every step we could to satisfy privacy concerns. There's a lot more work ahead, including conferencing the final legislation, but I believe this is a very good bill that reflects consensus on a very complicated issue.” Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 Bill Summary The bill seeks to improve cybersecurity of private entities and increase sharing of cyber threat information: The bill provides clear authority and liability protection for private sector entities to share information about cyber threat indicators and defensive cyber measures with other companies and with the Federal government. Such sharing is voluntary, and subject to several privacy protections. The bill provides authority and liability protection for a private entity to monitor its networks, and the networks of their customers and other third parties upon express authorization and consent, for cybersecurity purposes. The bill authorizes private entities’ use of “defensive measures” on their networks for cybersecurity purposes. The bill does not authorize offensive cyber countermeasures, nor does it authorize a company to take actions on its network that can cause substantial harm to other networks. The bill also addresses the government’s sharing and use of cyber information: The federal government is directed to increase its sharing of cyber information to the private sector to assist companies in protecting their systems. Information shared with the federal government under the bill is governed by specific, transparent rules, including: Establishment of a “portal” managed by the Department of Homeland Security through which electronic cyber information will enter the Federal government and be shared with other appropriate federal entities consistent with mandatory privacy guidelines. Limits on the Federal government’s use of cyber threat information to cybersecurity purposes, responding to imminent threats to life or serious economic harm, threats to minors, and countering cyber-related crimes. Protections for privacy, through requirements established by the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, that will govern the receipt, sharing, retention, and use of cyber information by the Federal government. The bill includes: A provision that enables the Federal government to prosecute overseas cybercriminals who profit from financial information that has been stolen from Americans. A provision that sunsets CISA’s authorities after ten years.
10.23.2015	10.23.15 Burr & Tillis Applaud Selection of Margaret Spellings as UNC System President WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the UNC Board of Governors for electing former United States Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings as the next UNC System President. “Margaret Spellings will make an outstanding president of the University of North Carolina system,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Her years of commitment to college access and completion, particularly for traditionally underserved populations, and knowledge of the nexus between graduate success and job placement rank her amongst our country’s best education leaders. Spellings also understands how to navigate Washington’s regulatory environment which continues to impose greater burdens on higher education systems across the country. I commend the members for their diligence and commitment to finding the best candidate.” “Secretary Spellings is an extremely qualified individual who has the experience needed to lead the UNC System into the next era of distinction,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “The UNC System stands head and shoulders above its peers worldwide, and Secretary Spellings has proven she possesses the level of determined leadership required to tackle the challenges that face higher education today. Secretary Spellings’ commitment to college affordability, accessibility, and accountability is precisely the right set of priorities that will allow our university system to thrive.”
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Burr & Tillis: President Undermines National Security, Vetoes Funding For Troops WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Barack Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, which recently passed both chambers of Congress with strong bipartisan support. Following the president’s decision to veto the NDAA for FY16, North Carolina Senators Richard Burr (R) and Thom Tillis (R) released the below statement: “President Obama’s veto today not only threatens the military readiness and security of our nation, but also represents a stunning rejection of the longstanding tradition of casting partisan politics aside to prioritize and protect the brave men and women in uniform who risk their lives for us every single day. “This veto also stands to harm the nation’s Global Response Force, as the NDAA includes an amendment to maintain the C-130 presence at Fort Bragg – the true tip of the spear that provides our troops with the tools and resources they need to maintain the United States’ position as the strongest and most capable military the world has ever seen. “In a time when our nation faces the most severe national security threats since September 11, 2001, it is incomprehensible that the President fails to prioritize national defense, exposing our troops to greater risk and undermining our security in the process. Congress must put our military and troops first and override this veto.” Background: Senators Tillis and Burr successfully included an amendment into the final NDAA that aims to preserve the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield in North Carolina. Under Tillis and Burr’s amendment, the C-130Hs cannot be removed from Fort Bragg unless the following leadership approvals indicate our national security and readiness of the Global Response Force will not be jeopardized: Consultation with Commanders of the XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne Division, and the United States Army Special Operations Command Approval of the Chief of Staff of the Army and the Secretary of the Army Approval of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Air Force Earlier this year, the Air Force delayed its plans to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield for another year, in part as a result of pressure from the North Carolina Congressional Delegation and concerns raised by Army leaders. The select House-Senate Conference Committee deemed the Tillis/Burr amendment necessary to properly fix the Department of Defense and Air Force’s strategically flawed plan to dismantle the wing, a vital unit to our country’s Global Response Force.
10.21.2015	10.21.15 Senate Consensus Forming in Support of Cyber Bill Washington—More than a dozen senators on Wednesday spoke about the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act, a bill to promote the sharing of cybersecurity information between companies and with the government while safeguarding personal information. An overwhelming majority spoke in favor of the bill. A selection of statements from the floor today: McConnell: “Americans also know that a cyber-attack is essentially a personal attack on their own privacy. It's violating to think of strangers digging through our medical records and emails. It's worrying to think of criminals accessing credit card numbers and Social Security information. That's why the Senate will again consider bipartisan legislation to help America's most private personal information.” Reid: “We know how important improving cybersecurity is for the national security of our country and the financial security of the economy. Even though this bill is not our perfect bill, we're going to cooperate with Republican colleagues. Several months ago, we reached an agreement with Republicans to begin debating this legislation, and now we're on it. Burr: “The vice chairman and I have worked aggressively for the entirety of the year. Where we have differences, we found ways to bridge those differences. Where we heard from members, where we heard from associations, where we heard from businesses, we worked with them to try to accommodate their wishes as long as it stayed within the spirit of what we were trying to accomplish, which is information sharing in a voluntary capacity.” Feinstein: “If you don't like the bill, you don't have to do it. So it's hard for me to understand why we have companies like Apple and Google and Microsoft and others saying they can't support the bill at this time. You have no reason, because you don't have to do anything, but there are companies by the hundreds if not thousands that want to participate in this.” McCain: “Enacting legislation to confront the accumulating dangers of cyber threats must be among the highest national security priorities of the congress. … The threats we face in cyberspace are real and imminent as well as quickly evolving. All aspects of the federal government, including this body, must commit to more quickly identifying, enacting and executing solutions to counter cyber threats. If we do not. If we do not, we will lose in cyberspace.” Grassley: “We receive almost daily reminders of the importance of effective cybersecurity to protect our private data and the safety and security of the entire nation from cyber attacks. These attacks have compromised the personal information of so many Americans, as well as sensitive national security information, and that national security issue might even be the biggest of the ones that we hope to deal with. The legislation before us will encourage the government and the private sector to work together to address these cybersecurity challenges. This bill helps create a strong legal framework for information sharing that will help us respond to these threats. This bill authorizes private companies to voluntarily share cyber threat information with each other and with the government. In turn then, the bill permits the government to share this information, this type of information, with private entities.” King: “It's bipartisan. It's got support in the House. Let's do something. I do not want to go home to Maine and try to explain to my constituents when the natural gas system or the electric system is brought down that we couldn't quite get around to it because of the difference of committee jurisdictions or because we had other priorities or because we were tied up in the budget. This is a priority. It is something that we should be doing immediately.” Nelson: “The threat of cyber-attack is vast and it is varied, from cyber criminals who steal personal information like credit card and Social Security numbers to foreign governments or state-sponsored groups that steal sensitive national security information, that steal our intellectual property and put at risk our economy and critical infrastructure.” Flake: “I believe that the bill that we’re currently considering—as it is written—strikes the right balance. It puts in place the proper privacy protections and I plan to support the legislation.” Carper: “The bill would ensure that our government is providing actionable intelligence to private-sector entities seeking to better protect themselves in cyberspace. Businesses are hungry for information they can use to fend off attacks and better protect their customers. This bill would make the federal government a much stronger partner for them.” Blunt: “I come to the floor today, as I'm sure many others are, to express support for this bill, for the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act bill that gives us tools that we don't currently have—and in fact allows us to get beyond some of the barriers that we do currently have—a bill that would allow individuals who see the information that they're responsible for being attacked, to call others in their same business and say here's what's happening to us right now. If you're not seeing it already, you should be looking for it. And when they do that, it doesn't violate any competitive sharing of information.”
10.20.2015	10.20.15 Debunking Myths about Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today released a fact sheet on the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (CISA). The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 helps protect personal privacy, by taking steps to stop future cyber-attacks before they happen, not after Americans personal, financial, and private information is stolen by foreign agents and criminal gangs. This legislation creates a cybersecurity information sharing environment that allows participants to get a better understanding of the current cybersecurity threats that may be used against them. The bill was reported out of Committee on March 3rd, 2015, on a vote of 14-1. “Week after week, we learn of more cyber-attacks on Americans,” said Chairman Burr. “Hackers have stolen detailed information about Americans’ families, their medical history and their financial data and exposed that information to criminals and foreign governments. It’s time to take action to keep Americans safe and to reinforce our defenses against adversaries that we cannot see before we fall further behind on this new battlefront.” “Millions of personal records and hundreds of billions of dollars fall victim to cyber-attacks every year, and we’ve done little to stem the tide,” said Senator Feinstein. “This information sharing bill, while not a silver bullet, is an important step to shore up our cybersecurity. This bill is the product of years of work and includes input from all sides of this issue. It balances security, personal privacy and liability protection in a way that I believe can pass the Senate. I look forward to finally seeing this bill become law.” MYTH VS. FACT MYTH: CISA is a “surveillance” bill. FACT: 100% false for the following reasons: All sharing under the bill is completely voluntary. No company is compelled to provide information to the government or any other company. CISA does not provide any way for the government to monitor any personal records, including library and book records, gun sales, tax records, educational records or medical records. CISA requires private companies and the government to review all information prior to sharing in order to remove any irrelevant personally-identifiable information that may be contained in cyber threat indicators or defensive measures. CISA does not allow the government to monitor private networks or computers. CISA does not let the government shut down websites or require companies to turn over personal information. CISA does not permit the government to retain or use cyber threat information for anything other than cyber security purposes, identifying a cybersecurity threat, protecting individuals from death or serious harm, protecting minors or investigating limited cyber-crime offenses. CISA provides rigorous oversight and requires regular reports from heads of agencies, inspectors general and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board to ensure that privacy is protected in any voluntary sharing that occurs. MYTH: CISA requires companies to send your personal information to the government. FACT: Completely untrue. CISA is 100% voluntary. CISA does not mandate or compel any private entity or individual to do anything other than take the privacy-related actions necessary if they do share information. The cyber threat information sharing is completely voluntary. Companies have the choice as to whether they want to participate in CISA’s cyber threat information sharing process, but all privacy protections are mandatory. MYTH: The status quo is good enough. No additional action is needed. It’s better to have no bill than to have CISA. FACT: To the contrary, CISA will help protect your personal information from being hacked and stolen. In fact, it is more damaging for America to be at the status quo, unprotected and without a cyber information sharing bill signed into law. Every day on the news, we hear about another cyberattack against your personal information—health records, credit cards, and other private records. The status quo leaves Americans at risk for ongoing cyberattacks and having their personal information stolen by hackers and foreign actors. Under the current law’s status quo, private and public sectors cannot fully share cyber threat information, making it easier for hackers to pillage data from individuals and business alike. CISA provides a framework for cooperation on cybersecurity in a way that protects privacy by authorizing public and private entities to take defined, limited cybersecurity actions that can better protect businesses and government entities.
10.19.2015	10.19.15 Op-ed: Bring back millions for conservation Every day, Americans are spending time in recreational areas made possible by the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). This fund is well-loved and for good reason: It enables parks, outdoor spaces and national sites to remain accessible, protected and celebrated by all Americans. At this point, the fund has unfortunately expired, but my Senate colleagues and I would like to bring the LWCF, and all the conservation projects currently in limbo, back to life. Rather than using taxpayer money, this fund is supposed to be granted $900 million a year, a small portion of the billions in annual oil and gas royalties gained from exploration on federally owned land and water sites. Historically, LWCF has received less than half the promised $900 million. Still, LWCF continues to make a big impact across the country. The Land and Water Conservation Fund is one of America’s great conservation success stories and for the last 50 years, it has delivered on its promise to conserve and enhance our national landscape. This fund has supported 41,000 projects and in North Carolina alone it has protected more than 900 sites including tourist attractions like the Blue Ridge Parkway, Pisgah National Forest and the Great Dismal Swamp. In North Carolina, outdoor recreation contributes $7.5 billion to the state’s economy and supports 95,000 jobs. While grand vistas are certainly noteworthy, many neighborhood parks and baseball diamonds have been made possible via LWCF grants. Some $216 million in LWCF funds has allowed North Carolina to provide these ballfields as well as protecting working forests and buffering the Appalachian Trail. These grants are invaluable in making local and state conservation efforts a reality. President Teddy Roosevelt once noted, “It is an incalculable added pleasure to anyone’s sum of happiness if he or she grows to know, even slightly and imperfectly, how to read and enjoy the wonder-book of nature.” His words ring truer now than ever before. This conservation fund allows us to enjoy not just magnificent national monuments, but also the nature in our own neighborhoods because it makes these areas more accessible than they would be otherwise. We owe Americans the chance to breathe life back into this vital program. This op-ed was published in the Charlotte Observer.
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Senator Burr Announces Opposition to Obama’s Trans-Pacific Partnership: Anything Less Than a Level Playing Field is Unacceptable WASHINGTON – Today, Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) announced that he will oppose the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal. The TPP deal was announced this week and has a number of problematic provisions. “While I believe that trade can open markets for American goods and services to be sold all over the world, the TPP is a bad deal for America,” said Senator Burr. “The Obama administration is rigging the system to pick winners and losers in favor of industries that he and his allies support. I cannot support a deal that singles out North Carolina’s agricultural industry unfairly. I am also concerned that this deal does not adequately protect intellectual property rights and fails to provide strong enough measures to address currency manipulation. Anything less than a level playing field is unacceptable, and this deal simply does not accomplish enough for Americans. I oppose it and will do what I can to defeat it." The Senate is expected to begin the lengthy trade agreement review process early next year.
10.07.2015	10.07.15 Burr & Tillis Congratulate NC Nobel Prize In Chemistry Winners WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued a joint statement congratulating Dr. Paul Modrich, a professor at the Duke University School of Medicine, and Dr. Aziz Sancar, a professor at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, for winning the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their innovative work mapping how cells repair DNA: “We congratulate Dr. Paul Modrich and Dr. Aziz Sancar for their well-deserved Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Their ground-breaking research in discovering how cells repair DNA could be a game-changer in the treatment of cancer and other diseases. The Nobel Prize awarded to Dr. Modrich and Dr. Sancar is an incredible achievement that reaffirms North Carolina’s status as a home to world-renowned research institutions, scientists, and researchers who are literally changing the world for the better on a daily basis.”
10.02.2015	10.02.15 As Major Hack Exposes Another 15 Million People, Intel Chairs Burr and Feinstein Call for Passage of Cyber Bill WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today made the following statement on the hack of T-Mobile and Experian: “We woke up this morning to news of the latest major breach of personal information through a cyber hack, with 15 million people’s private information stolen from T-Mobile and Experian. For months, we have been trying to pass important, balanced legislation to help companies get the information they need to stop losses like this. Despite strong bipartisan support in the committee and the Senate, and support from the administration and the business community, there are some groups that are opposing the bill out of a knee-jerk reaction against any communication between the government and industry. If these special interest groups are successful in mischaracterizing this bill, which authorizes purely voluntary sharing, they will only succeed in allowing more personal information to be compromised to criminals and foreign countries.” The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 includes strong commitments to personal privacy, while spurring the information sharing that is necessary to stop future cyber-attacks before they happen, not after Americans personal, financial, and private information is stolen by foreign agents and criminal gangs. This legislation creates a cybersecurity information sharing environment that allows all participants to get a better understanding of the current cybersecurity threats that may be used against them. Compliance with the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act is entirely voluntary and the bill was reported out of Committee on March 3rd, 2015 on a vote of 14-1.
10.01.2015	10.01.15 Burr& Tillis Respond To Administration’s Partisan TPP Tobacco Carve-Out WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Obama Administration has formally proposed tobacco carve-out language in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a provision that would single out a specific agricultural product and strip it of rights afforded to all other agricultural products in the trade agreement. “Over the last seven years, this Administration has consistently picked winners and losers by rigging the rules in favor of the organizations and industries they like best,” said Senator Burr. “Agricultural trade is critical to our nation’s economy and every sector of that industry creates jobs across the board. It is imperative that all of U.S. agriculture is treated fairly.” “By carving out tobacco from the TPP, the Obama Administration is discriminating against an entire agricultural commodity, setting a dangerous precedent for future trade agreements,” said Senator Tillis. “Congress granted the President trade promotion authority with the mutual understanding his Administration would negotiate trade deals in good faith. It did not vote to give the Administration the freedom to indiscriminately choose when fairness should be applied and when it should be ignored. Trade agreements should not be laboratories for setting partisan policies and picking winners and losers. If any carve-out is ultimately included in the TPP, I will work hard to help defeat its ratification.”
10.01.2015	10.01.15 Burr Pushes for 60 Day Lifeline on Conservation Fund WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) pushed for a deal to guarantee a 60 day short term reauthorization to fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). If approved by unanimous consent, the agreement would extend funding for the LWCF for 60 more days. Funding for the LWCF will expire today, September 30, 2015, if no action is taken. Earlier this month, Sen. Burr and 52 of his Republican and Democratic colleagues sent a letter to Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid encouraging them to take action on funding the LWCF. “This conservation fund is well loved and for good reason,” said Senator Burr. “In my state alone, LWCF has protected over 900 sites, from the Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, to Mt. Mitchell State Park, the Blue Ridge Parkway and Pisgah National Forest. Americans expect Congress to take action on programs that are good investments, like the LWCF. This fund has provided endless opportunity for both job creators and recreationists alike without costing taxpayers a dime. It deserves a short term extension until we can craft a long term solution.” In North Carolina, outdoor recreation contributes $7.5 billion dollars to the state’s economy and supports 95,000 jobs. For North Carolina alone, many spectacular sites, like the Pisgah National Forest, were completed thanks to this important fund. Now Americans across the country flock to this site each year. Catawba Falls is another LWCF success story. It was acquired in 2010 through the LWCF and made this popular waterfall open to the public. The 88 acres were purchased from Foothills Conservancy of NC to open up long-sought public trail access to Catawba Falls, which was added to Pisgah National Forest in 1989, also thanks to LWCF. It is 25 miles east from Asheville and enjoys 200,000-250,000 visitors per year. Chimney Rock in North Carolina is a good example of a project that will be suspended if the LWCF is not renewed. Chimney Rock is a well-loved North Carolina monument, but expansion of the site will halt eventually without LWCF support. Senator Burr spoke on the Senate floor today: Watch his speech here
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Sen. Burr: Inclusion of Amendment to Defense Authorization that Maintains Fort Bragg’s Critical Pope Airfield Is Critical WASHINGTON –Today, a select House-Senate Conference Committee released the final Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The conference committee included language from Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sen. Burr that preserves the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield in North Carolina pending analysis by the Army on the impact of shuttering the 440th on the readiness of airborne forces. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) has relentlessly advocated for the maintenance of the airfield and its important role as the launch pad for the East Coast. The NDAA passed the Senate with a bipartisan vote of 71-15, with Burr’s vote. “As Senate Intel Committee Chairman, I can tell you that the threats against Americans are growing in both sophistication and scope,” said Sen. Burr. “Now is not the time to scale down our military’s response capabilities but it seems that’s the direction the Air Force is choosing to go. The 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg is critical to our country’s combat readiness. I’m pleased that the conference included language that Sen. Tillis and I authored. I remain committed to keeping the 440th at Pope Army Airfield unless military commanders at the ground level advise the Senate otherwise.”
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Holding bureaucrats accountable for Camp Lejeune failures This week, when I testify along with retired Marine Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger about the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) response to the Camp Lejeune (N.C.) water contamination, I will once again tell the American people of the hardships these veterans and their families have suffered, not once, but twice – the first time when they were diagnosed with debilitating illnesses, often cancers, and the second time when the Department of Veterans Affairs denied their veterans benefits claims. We’ve made significant gains in how our government treats these victims of toxic exposure, but along the way, the VA has obstructed and evaded granting benefits to these individuals. Until I am convinced VA is truly putting promises and the law into action, I will continue to hold the VA leadership accountable for their failings. Since the crisis last summer with waiting lists for VA medical care garnered so much media attention, the VA bureaucracy has continued to disappoint thousands of Marine veterans and their families on Secretary McDonald’s watch. Where the Camp Lejeune veterans are concerned, McDonald should stop touring VA facilities and refocus on making serious decisions within his agency, or he may face the same fate as his predecessor. Sadly, his statements to Congress and veterans increasingly sound like the positions of the bureaucracy he was appointed to change and are predicated on one simple request: send more money or else the system will implode. The problem of Camp Lejeune has not been about VA’s spending authorities or its budget. In the face of relentless Congressional pressure over successive years, VA has continued to ignore and deny credible science and resisted helping Camp Lejeune veterans’ calls for help until it was caught red-handed. In the case of Norman Mcilhenny, a Marine veteran who served at Camp Lejeune and who is suffering from kidney cancer, a VA clinician stated in the denial that there was no evidence the chemicals in Lejeune’s water, primarily TCE, cause kidney cancer. That evaluation was patently false. In fact, the EPA and the International Agency for Research on Cancer classify TCE as a carcinogen known to cause kidney cancer in humans. The VA clinician did agree that Mcilhenny should be granted one hundred percent disability for his hypertension, a condition that has better long term outcomes than a near fatal diagnosis like kidney cancer. Unbelievably, when VA was later shown evidence that TCE causes kidney cancer, VA removed the citation in the denial notice, then reissued it, and denied the veteran again for kidney cancer as a service connected condition. Like TCE, many of the other contaminents of Camp Lejeune’s water that veterans and families drank, washed in, and played in from 1953 to 1987 have proven to be cancer causing. During that thirty-four year span, the Department of Defense rewarded these brave men and women by negligently poisoning them and later engaging in a massive cover-up of what we now know is one of the worst incidents of environmental exposure in our nation’s history. Since 1989, the CDC’s Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, ATSDR, has been investigating the water contamination at Camp Lejeune and working to produce scientifically sound studies on its effects. Last week, ATSDR provided the VA with a consolidated review of these chemicals, demonstrating that at least six human health conditions are linked to Lejeune’s poisoned water system. The science in that document is the same science Congress has urged VA to consider time and again when reviewing Lejeune veterans’ disability claims. Still, the denial rate has remained above 90 percent. In 2012, Congress successfully passed the Janey Ensminger Act to at least ensure Camp Lejeune veterans and their families who had fallen sick from a number of cancers could receive medical care from VA for their illnesses. Now that VA is facing ATSDR’s latest conclusive report, VA has announced it will extend what are called “presumptive” benefits for certain cancers known to be caused by the toxins found in Lejeune’s water. Regrettably, while VA deliberates anew, Lejeune veterans’ claims continue to come in and those veterans are frustrated, exhausted, and debilitated by their illnesses and a bureaucracy that only now is waking from its slumber. Hopefully, VA is finally out of reasons for delays and will finally do the right thing for Lejeune veterans. Rest assured, I won’t quit until Lejeune veterans know their government won’t leave them behind. This op-ed was published by The Hill.
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Sen. Burr, Master Sergeant Ensminger Testify on Camp Lejeune Water Contamination on Behalf of Victims WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) testified before the Veterans’ Affairs Committee on toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune (NC). Senator Burr discussed his efforts to hold the VA accountable, his recent meetings with Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald and his success drawing attention to a troubling practice where the VA was ignoring science in denying benefits claims to victims. Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, US Marine Corps-Retired, whose nine year old daughter was born on the base and died as a result of exposure to toxic chemicals, also testified. Watch Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger (Ret.) testify here and read his opening statement here. Ensminger testified: “Of my four children, who were all born during my military career, my daughter Janey was the only one to have been conceived, carried, or born while we lived aboard Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejeune, NC during the years of contaminated water. When Janey was six years old she was diagnosed with Leukemia, she fought a valiant battle against her disease but she eventually lost the war, she passed away on 24 September 1985 at the age of nine. That is correct, the 30th anniversary of her death was just five short, painful days ago. Janey is but one example of the multitude of tragedies suffered by former Camp Lejeune families who were exposed by this negligence. He continued: “Mr. Chairman, no other military toxic exposure incident in our history has been documented nor studied as thoroughly as Camp Lejeune. Much of the science is already in and more is coming in future study reports. Many Camp Lejeune veterans and their families have waited, suffered, and yes even died waiting for this scientific evidence. They shouldn’t need to wait any longer for the help they deserve. We were all at Camp Lejeune to serve and protect our nation, none of us ever expected nor deserved to be poisoned, especially here on our own shores.” Watch Sen. Richard Burr’s opening statement here and read it here. Burr testified: “VA doctors were in various cases cherry picking the science, misrepresenting or misinterpreting scientific studies, using questionable sources, and overruling the opinions of veterans’ oncologists. In the glaring case of one Marine veteran, Norman Mcilhenny, suffering from kidney cancer, a VA clinician stated there was no evidence one of the chemicals in Lejeune’s water– the carcinogen TCE – was known to cause kidney cancer. VBA later denied Mr. Mcilhenny’s claim. When VA was later shown evidence that exposure to TCE is widely accepted as a cause of kidney cancer, VA removed the citation in the denial notice, then reissued it, and denied Mr. Mcilhenny again. This is unbelievable, but sadly true. There are many other Lejeune veterans with similar stories.” About Camp Lejeune: From 1953-1987, Camp Lejeune residents were exposed to poisoned water from industrial dumping on the base. In 2012, Janey Ensminger Act, co-sponsored by Sen. Burr, named in honor of Master Sergeant Ensminger’s late daughter, was signed into law. The law was designed to provide medical relief to veterans and eligible family members but many have been unable to receive benefits due to red tape and unscientific denials from the VA.
09.23.2015	09.23.15 Burr & Tillis: Shuttering 440th Airlift Wing Would Harm Combat Readiness WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) wrote to Army Chief of Staff Mark A. Milley, expressing concern that the Air Force’s plan to dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield would undermine the training and readiness of America’s Global Response Force. The senators compared the strategically-flawed decision to a failed business model in which a supplier (the Air Force) dictates to a customer (the Army) how and when a service (airborne training) is delivered. Tillis and Burr requested that General Milley engage leaders at the Department of the Air Force and question them as to why they are failing to live up to their commitment to ensure American troops are properly trained and ready for combat. Air Force officials have previously admitted that they did not consult with Army leadership before proceeding with plans to remove the C-130H presence from Pope Airfield. Lt. Gen. Joseph Anderson, the former commander of Fort Bragg and the XVIII Airborne Corps, publicly expressed his opposition to dismantling the 440th Airlift Wing earlier this year, asking, “of all places in the world, why would we take that capability away from Fort Bragg?” SENATOR TILLIS AND SENATOR BURR’S LETTER TO GENERAL MILLEY: September 22, 2015 General Mark A. Milley Army Chief of Staff 200 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0200 General Milley: We remain concerned that some within the Pentagon continue to confuse the responsibilities of a supported service and a supporting service. The Air Force’s efforts to reduce support to America’s Global Response Force exemplifies this confusion by placing the desires of the supporting service ahead of the needs of the supported service. The Air Force’s proposal to support paratrooper proficiency for the XVIII Airborne Corps solely from remote airbases utterly fails as a logical business model. In no successful enterprise would a supplier or provider of support dictate to the customer how and when such support is delivered. More specifically, the Army would never offer an opinion as to how the Air Force runs a bomber base, nor should the Air Force prescribe to the Army Airborne how and when it can train its paratroopers. In the last few months we have engaged all levels of leadership in the XVIII Airborne Corps from commanding generals to first sergeants. To a man, we have received the same message—the Corps’ airborne qualifications are degraded, units are not getting the support they require. As you are aware, Air Mobility Command’s own plan shows they cannot meet Fort Bragg’s daily training requirements, if the indigenous Air Force lift presence disappears. This is not an adversarial protest. We appreciate that the supporting and supported dynamic has been inverted and believe routine service comity is no longer acceptable when the readiness of America’s airborne forcible entry capability is affected. We respectfully ask that you take a detailed look at the facts and figures regarding Air Force support to airborne training at Fort Bragg and, if they demonstrate the threat to readiness we have seen, engage the Department of the Air Force as to the reasons why they are not living up to their commitments. We are not seeking confrontation; our goal remains, from day one, that United States’ airborne forces are primed and ready and impediments to their readiness are vigorously opposed. Sincerely, Richard Burr U.S. Senator Thom Tillis U.S. Senator
09.23.2015	
09.21.2015	09.21.15 Advisory: NSA Director Rogers to Testify in Open Senate Intelligence Committee Hearing This Week WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) will hold an open hearing this week on the National Security Agency (NSA) with NSA Director Admiral Michael Rogers to testify. This open hearing will examine NSA’s activities and its ability to meet its diverse mission requirements. Details Hearing: Open Senate Intelligence Hearing with NSA Director Michael Rogers Witness: National Security Agency Director, Admiral Michael Rogers When: Thursday September 24th 2015 at 2:30 pm Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 This is the third open hearing this year and follows National Counter Terrorism Center Director Nicholas Rasmussen’s testimony in February and Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey’s testimony in July.
09.18.2015	09.18.15 Sens Burr and Casey Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Better Protect Americans from Threat of Biological Attacks and Pandemics WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) yesterday introduced the Medical Countermeasure Innovation Act of 2015. This legislation encourages the development of medical countermeasures, including drugs, devices and preventative treatments, needed to protect the American people in the event of a global pandemic or biological weapon attack. Despite recent improvements in America’s readiness and response capabilities, the Ebola crisis and other emergencies at home and abroad make it clear that more needs to be done to ensure our government is fully capable of responding to these threats. This legislation further supports the development of life-saving products against either natural or deliberate chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. "As Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman, I recognize that threats facing our nation are growing every day,” said Senator Burr. “The American people expect our government to do everything possible to prevent an attack against us and, if one should occur, be ready to respond, including having as many safe and effective medical countermeasures as readily available as possible. This legislation continues our efforts to be better prepared to protect the American people with the medical countermeasures needed against a range of threats we may face, whether naturally occurring or the result of an attack.” “Preparedness is a continual effort to ensure that we have the capability to respond to any threat to public health,” said Senator Casey. “We must continue to support the development of new medical countermeasures against a wide range of threats, from emerging infectious diseases like Ebola or novel strains of flu, to known threats like anthrax, and ensure that we are fully prepared for these types of emergencies. This legislation will strengthen our preparedness system and provide incentives for new medical countermeasure development.” Read the legislation here and here.
09.18.2015	09.18.15 Sens. Burr and Tillis, Reps. Adams and Pittenger Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Improve Weather Hazard Detection WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Representative Alma Adams (D-NC) and Representative Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced the Metropolitan Weather Hazards Protection Act of 2015, which will enhance the Doppler radar system in North Carolina. This legislation requires the Secretary of Commerce to operate and maintain a National Weather Service (NWS) Doppler radar within 55 miles of a city with a population over 700,000, addressing a serious public safety deficiency in the North Carolina region. “The National Weather Service should be treating all major metropolitan areas the same, but weather experts agree that the current Doppler technology locations in North Carolina are insufficient and do not give meteorologists the tools they need to detect and warn citizens of potentially dangerous weather. As we know from the tornado of 2012 that damaged up to 192 homes in the Charlotte area, this is a significant public safety problem,” said Senator Burr. “I’m pleased that Senator Tillis and Representatives Adams and Pittenger have joined me on this bill to help protect North Carolinians.” Charlotte is currently covered by a NWS Doppler radar that is 94 miles away in Greer, SC. However, no other city of Charlotte’s size currently has a radar situated more than 58 miles away. The current location results in a majority of the metropolitan area being without radar beam coverage below 10,000 feet. Due to the circumference of the earth the further a radar is away from a given point, the higher the radar beam scans the atmosphere, leading to lower resolutions and an inability to detect the low-level dynamics of severe weather. Rowan, Cabarrus, and Davidson Counties have an even more pronounced problem with limited radar coverage because of the location of the radar. This map from Brad Panovich, Chief Meteorologist WCNC-TV, clearly shows the gap in quality radar coverage over Charlotte: Local meteorologists believe that the lack of quality radar coverage has made it difficult for the NWS office in Spartanburg to detect severe weather, specifically tornadoes. These meteorologists who understand the intricacies of weather in the Piedmont believe that the lack of a NWS Doppler radar in Charlotte contributed to the lack of a warning for a tornado that effected Mecklenburg, Rowan, and Cabarrus Counties in March of 2012 that damaged 192 homes. The failure was not the fault of the NWS, as it can be very difficult to detect rotation in the thunderstorms that tend to effect North Carolina; however, the lack of a Doppler radar for the Piedmont enhances the problem. This legislation will give the NWS, local and state officials, and news outlets the tools they need to protect our citizens. Letters from three area meteorologists are available here: WGHP, WCNC and WBTV The legislation: Requires the Secretary of Commerce to operate and maintain a Doppler radar within 55 miles of a city with a population over 700,000. Requires the Secretary, when evaluating potential sites, to take into account adjacent counties with limited radar coverage and that have populations over 130,000. Requires that any new radar include the most up to date technology used around the country.
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Burr and 52 Senators Call on Senate to Fund Popular, Soon-to-Expire Conservation Program WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and 52 of his Republican and Democratic colleagues sent a letter to Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid encouraging them to take action on funding the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Funding for the LWCF will expire on September 30, 2015 if no action is taken. Established in 1964, the LWCF is one of America’s most successful federal conservation programs, conserving irreplaceable lands and improving outdoor recreation opportunities throughout the nation. It requires no taxpayer funding. “Investments in LWCF support public land conservation and ensure access to the outdoors for all Americans, in rural communities and cities alike,” wrote the Senators. “It has created outdoor recreation opportunities in every state and 98 percent of counties across the country, opening up key areas for hunting, fishing, and other recreational access; supporting working forests and ranches; acquiring inholdings and protecting critical lands in national parks, national wildlife refuges, national forests, Civil War battlefields, and other federal areas; and making additions and improvements to state and local parks and recreation facilities. “For 50 years, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has been a success. I urge Senate leaders to reauthorize funding so that Americans can to continue to enjoy the economic, environmental, and recreational benefits of conservation.” Funding for the LWCF will expire on September 30, 2015 if no action is taken. Many parts of North Carolina have received LWCF funding including the following popular recreational areas: Pisgah and Nantahala National Forests Cape Lookout National Seashore Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge Blue Ridge Parkway. The letter was signed by the following members: Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Robert P. Casey, Jr. (D-PA), Susan M. Collins (R-ME), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick J. Leahy (D-VT), Joe Manchin III (D-WV), Edward Markey (D-MA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Christopher Murphy (D-CT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), James E. Risch (R-ID), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Charles Schumer (D- NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tom Udall (D-NM), Mark Warner (D-VA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Ron Wyden (D-OR)
09.15.2015	09.15.15 Senators Burr, Bennet, Warren, Hatch Introduce Bill to Help Patients by Facilitating Faster Development of Drugs for Rare Diseases Washington D.C. – Today U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced the Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act of 2015. This bipartisan bill will help advance the development of targeted drugs for patients with serious or life-threatening rare genetic diseases. "This is an exciting era of medicine that holds great potential for personalizing treatments to improve and save lives," said Burr. “This bipartisan legislation will help fulfill this potential for patients in North Carolina and across our nation by facilitating the development of targeted drugs for rare diseases. I’m proud of North Carolina’s innovators and the work they are doing on behalf of patients, and it is my hope that this legislation will facilitate many life-saving treatments that give hope to families who are battling rare diseases.” “Companies developing these targeted therapies are saving and lengthening lives, and if we allow them to expand the scope of their current testing we can potentially save even more lives,” Bennet said. “We have met with Coloradans suffering the effects of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Cystic Fibrosis, cancer and other life threatening diseases who have asked us to remove red tape and help them access cutting edge treatments. By allowing these innovators to safely test new therapies on patients with the same disease, but a different mutation, we can unleash a host of lifesaving new breakthroughs.” “Targeted therapies are a promising form of treatment for people living with rare diseases who often have no other treatment options. We should use all the tools we can to help bring these new therapies to market, while maintaining the FDA’s strong safety and effectiveness standards,” Warren said. “By clarifying the FDA’s current authority to consider research supporting previously-approved targeted treatments, this bipartisan bill will help innovators advance the next generation of precision medicines.” “Innovation in treatments is critical for patients with rare diseases. The Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act will enable more patients suffering from rare diseases to benefit from advances in precision medicine,” said Hatch. “By removing difficulties involved in conducting conventional trials for genetic subgroups of many rare diseases, this legislation will incentivize new drug development, create greater efficiency in the drug review process, and bring needed treatments to patients faster. I am proud to work with Senators Bennet, Burr, and Warren on this meaningful, bipartisan legislation.” Many rare diseases like Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Cystic Fibrosis, and certain cancers have genetic origins. Different mutations within a gene can result in the same disease, meaning some diseases are further fractured into various subtypes. Fortunately, advances in medicine have made it possible to customize treatments to target particular genetic mutations. Developing drugs for rare diseases is particularly difficult because of the small patient populations available for clinical trials. Therefore, there would need to be dozens of therapies to treat the full spectrum of certain genetic rare diseases. The Advancing Targeted Therapies for Rare Diseases Act of 2015 affirms the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA’s) authority to allow innovators to use their own data supporting the approval of a targeted therapy to help facilitate additional targeted therapies to treat patients with the same rare disease. This bill does not change the FDA’s current approval standards and has the support of the Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy (PPMD), the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the Duchenne Alliance, and the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD).
09.11.2015	09.11.15 Chairman Burr Statement on 9/11 Anniversary WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, made the following statement on the anniversary of September 11th, 2001: “Today’s grim anniversary marks fourteen years since terrorists attacked our homeland. Let us remember both the sacrifices of those who died as well as the heroism on that day, and the days that followed. Every day, our military and our intelligence community is working to keep Americans safe, so that we may never again experience a terrible tragedy on our own soil. Today is reminder that every day is precious and that America is the greatest country on earth. As each year passes, remembering the events of September 11th reinforces my commitment to our military, our law enforcement and our intelligence community, who stand up against those seeking to harm our citizens and our allies.”
09.03.2015	09.03.15 Senator Burr Statement on Loss of Camp Lejeune Marine WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the news that a U.S. Marine died during a training exercise conducted at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina: “Every day, our service men and women face countless dangers to keep Americans safe. We are once again reminded of the risks these brave individuals take and that they are paying the cost for the freedoms we enjoy. The Marine who lost his life and his family will remain in my prayers.”
08.11.2015	08.11.15 Burr Praises North Carolina’s Passage of the ABLE Act WASHINGTON – Today, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory signed the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act into law. The bill implements in North Carolina the federal ABLE Act, the bill that Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) steered through the United States Senate and was signed into law by the President last year. “The ABLE Act has been called the most significant piece of legislation affecting the disabled since passage of the American Disabilities Act 25 years ago. I got involved in this effort nearly 8 years ago after families of severely disabled children came to me expressing the critical need for an easy way to save for their child's future expenses, especially since many Americans with Down Syndrome and autism are now outliving their parents. I am proud that my home state moved quickly to ensure North Carolina’s families will have this opportunity. “Unfortunately, for too long, our policies have focused on what an individual with a disability cannot do. Before ABLE, federal law was written in such a way where a family who had the resources and the desire to save and plan for that child's future expenses were advised not to do so in fear of disqualifying them from federal programs down the road. Not only has this been cruel, it has also been a reflection of our own failure to recognize the potential and meaning of each and every human life. The ABLE Act will help Americans with disabilities achieve their purpose and fulfill their God-given gifts.”
08.06.2015	08.06.15 Burr on Finance Committee’s IRS Report: IRS Damaged Americans’ Trust WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, made the following statement on the Committee’s release of the bipartisan report on the Internal Revenue Service’s targeting of organizations applying for tax-exempt status based on political affiliation: “The Internal Revenue Service has seriously damaged the trust of the American people, as evidenced by the Finance Committee’s bipartisan report. Personal politics of IRS employees, including Lois Lerner, have no place in government. I’m thankful the Finance Committee was able to compile the facts so that we can work on reforms that will prevent Americans from being targeted for their political beliefs.”
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Burr on Iran Deal: American People Aren’t Buying Into Bad Deal WASHINGTON –Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement in response to the President’s speech at American University on the deal with Iran: “Today, the President badly mischaracterized what the nuclear agreement with Iran would accomplish. The President is trying to sell the American people a bad deal and we aren’t buying it. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is dangerously limited in the safeguards it provides for America and its allies. The President’s plan inadequately addresses Iran’s technological nuclear advancement, which would need better monitoring than this plan provides. We owe the American people, the Israeli people, and our allies in the region our best possible effort to rein in a known state sponsor of terrorism. I will not support this agreement and, as the Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I will continue my efforts to ensure that we fully understand Iran’s capabilities and intentions.”
08.04.2015	08.04.15 After Years of Denials, VA to Give Disability Status to Veterans Poisoned by Camp Lejeune Water WASHINGTON – Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced that the VA would begin the process to grant presumptive disability status to veterans of service at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina who have certain cancers and conditions known to be associated with long term exposure to the chemicals that contaminated the base water system from 1953-1987. VA is conceding that it will no longer deny benefits to eligible veterans based on VA’s faulty and selective interpretations of science. The VA’s use of “presumptive status” means the benefit of the doubt goes to the veteran as long as VA determines they meet eligibility requirements. Under pressure from Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), the VA now acknowledges the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and other respected scientific bodies' determination that the chemicals in the contaminated water are known to cause several illnesses Camp Lejeune veterans are experiencing. In short, veterans will now be able to get VA benefits as a result of their exposure. “I’m disappointed that we had to pressure the VA to do the right thing for our veterans in the first place,” said Burr. “The scientific research is strong and the widespread denials of benefits will soon end. Now, these veterans and their families members will not have to fight for benefits they are due. I look forward to seeing the commitment Secretary McDonald gave me realized without unnecessary delay and I credit him and Dr. Breysse of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry for their commitment to righting this wrong.” “The evidence has been accumulating for years now – many of those who lived or worked at Camp Lejeune in years past developed certain diseases after exposure to contaminated drinking water. Compensating these victims, our Nation’s heroes and their families, is simply the right thing to do and I commend Secretary McDonald for taking this bold step for responsible government,” said Tillis. “I am proud to join Senator Burr and support his deep commitment to advocating on behalf of the victims, and we will continue to monitor the Veterans Affairs Administration closely to ensure that the process for establishing the presumptive program occurs in a timely and meaningful way.” Sens Burr and Tillis met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Bob McDonald in July and the Director of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) to discuss ways the VA could begin admitting benefits to veterans afflicted with these diseases caused by poisoned water at Camp Lejeune.
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Burr: Veterans Choice Program Improvements Are a Welcome Addition WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Senate passed legislation that makes improvements to the Veterans Choice program. Along with Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) authored the Veterans Choice program, signed into law last year, in his role as then Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. Senator Burr made the following statement on today’s vote: “As one of the authors of the Veterans Choice Act, I’m encouraged by some of the improvements that this bill makes to this popular program. This bill will make more veterans eligible for the Choice program and gives more flexibility to the 40-mile rule. These are welcome changes for veterans who want to get health care closer to home from a doctor of their choice.” This amendment makes much needed changes to the Veterans Choice Program: o Gives more veterans eligibility to enroll in the Choice Program. § Previously only those veterans enrolled by August 1, 2014, were eligible. o Expands the number of non-VA providers who are allowed to participate in the program, including dentists and obstetricians. o Allows veterans who live within 40 miles of a VA facility that do not have a full-time primary care physician to access the Choice Program. The Veterans Choice Act was written to accomplish three goals: Provide veterans' flexibility and choice in medical providers; Increase transparency in VA operations; and Tighten accountability on VA operations. Read the text of the Veterans Choice Act here.
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Burr and Bennet Bill to Lower Tax on Cleaner Alternative Fuels Heads to President’s Desk WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Senate passed a provision to modify the federal excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas and Propane as part of the three month highway funding extension. The provision, introduced by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), will make modifications to the Excise Tax for Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), allowing natural gas to compete fairly with diesel by taxing the fuel on an energy output basis rather than per gallon. Under the current system, Americans are unfairly paying about 70% more in taxes to fill up their cars and trucks with comparatively cleaner Natural Gas than diesel. “As we continue to develop alternative fuels, it’s critical that the federal government stays away from picking winners and losers and encourages consumers to use the products that best suit their needs,” said Senator Burr. “America is fortunate that our energy markets have diversified in the last few years, and in order to foster more innovation, this legislation is sorely needed so that we’re not unfairly punishing consumers with higher taxes for choosing cleaner fuels.” “Natural gas is a growing part of Colorado’s diverse energy industry, and this bill recognizes the ongoing shift to alternative transportation technologies and fuels,” Bennet said. “Providing parity to LNG creates an opportunity to help grow this market and encourages the use of natural gas as a transportation fuel.” Description of Provision: Modifies the current excise tax on LNG to be calculated on an energy-equivalent basis relative to diesel, to take in account the fact LNG produces approximately 58 percent of the energy of the same amount of diesel. Similarly, this provision modifies the current excise tax on propane (LPG) to be calculated on a per gallon energy equivalent basis with a gallon of gasoline; LPG produces approximately 72 percent of the energy of the same amount of gasoline. With the passage of this provision, LNG and LPG would be taxed at 14.1 and 13.2 cents per gallon, respectively. The provision would also create uniform rules on measuring equivalency of LNG, LPG, and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG), which will assist retailors of these alternative fuels pay the correct amount of federal excise tax. Based on legislation introduced by Senators Bennet and Burr. The provision was recently approved by the Senate Finance Committee.
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Burr, Tillis Applaud Passage Of Highway Bill With Provisions To Improve North Carolina’s Infrastructure WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed a six-year highway bill that includes provisions previously introduced by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) to amend the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 and designate the following North Carolina highways as high priority corridors: • Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor from Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. • U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison, and U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner to the Port at Morehead City. The designation of the highways would advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that will become part of the Interstate system once they are fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. “The Senate-passed long term highway bill is a win for all North Carolinians,” said Senator Burr. “The highway bill includes important provisions that are vital to our state's infrastructure, benefiting everyone who uses our roads and highways, and encourages economic expansion by connecting some of the east coast’s largest ports to North Carolina’s cities and towns. I will continue to work with Senator Tillis and my North Carolina House colleagues to ensure that the priorities important to North Carolina remain in the final version of the highway bill.” “I am pleased that the Senate was able to pass a highway bill that would produce long-lasting benefits for North Carolina, including reduced traffic congestion, improved access to military bases, and increased investments in our state’s transportation and infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue to work across the aisle with my colleagues from North Carolina to ensure the Raleigh-Norfolk and US-70 corridors soon become part of the Interstate system.”
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Burr, Tillis Host NC’s Defense & Economic Development Trade Show WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) will host the 14th Annual North Carolina Defense & Economic Development Trade Show at Fayetteville Technical Community College (FTCC) next week. The 14th Annual North Carolina Defense & Economic Development Trade Show will take place on August 3th, 2015 at FTCC’s Horace Sisk Gymnasium (2201 Hull Road, Fayetteville, NC) from 10:30 am – 3:00 pm. Both Senator Burr and Senator Tillis will be in attendance to kick-off the DTS on the trade show floor with an official ribbon cutting at 10:30 AM. “The Defense Trade Show is an important event for North Carolina businesses, workers and communities,” said Senator Burr. “With the large military presence in our state, it is important that North Carolina businesses get connected with DoD officials to better understand the federal contracts process so that they may better serve their communities and support the local economy.” “I am honored to kick-off the Defense and Economic Development Trade Show with Senator Burr. Fayetteville is home to the largest military base in the country, and it is crucial that we provide North Carolina businesses the opportunity to understand how they can better and more efficiently contribute to the military community not only in Fayetteville, but across the state,” Senator Tillis said. Building on a North Carolina tradition, Senator Burr was worked to continue the Defense & Economic Development Trade Show with the North Carolina Military Business Center (NCMBC) in an effort to help North Carolina’s businesses build partnerships with the Department of Defense (DoD), other federal agencies, and defense contractors. For more information or to register for the DTS, visit: http://www.ncmbc.us/2015DTS.php.
07.23.2015	07.23.15 Burr and Bennet Applaud Bipartisan Agreement on Funding Nation’s Parks WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today applauded the Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources committee, Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and the Committee’s Ranking Member, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Wash), on their announcement of an agreement on legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). This legislation would ensure LWCF can fully realize its promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation. “For years, I have been fighting for LWCF and its promise to conserve America’s scenic treasures for future generations. This is dollar-for-dollar the best conservation program our nation has – it does not use tax payer money or add to our debt but it does have a huge impact on maintaining North Carolina's reputation as one of the most scenic and unique states in the country,” said Burr. “I hope my colleagues will take up this effort and ensure that LWCF will be permanently reauthorized, without fear that it will be put into jeopardy on a yearly basis.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a crucial tool that has helped preserve dozens of high-priority landscapes across Colorado,”Bennet said. “From building city parks in Denver to conserving parcels of land high in the San Juan Mountains to providing access to our sportsmen, LWCF has helped boost Colorado’s tourism and outdoor recreation economy. We’re glad to see Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell included permanent reauthorization of LWCF in their comprehensive energy bill, which we’ve been fighting for. We look forward to helping them move this proposal forward.” Senators Burr, Bennet, and Ayotte introduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) in February. Instead of using tax payers money, LWCF is funded by a small portion of the billions of dollars in annual oil and gas royalties gained from exploration on federally owned land and water. LWCF is an investment in the future of our nation’s scenic treasures and does not add to the nation’s debt.
07.22.2015	07.22.15 Burr Addresses Domestic Energy, Savings Accounts for the Disabled, and Education in Amendments to Tax Bill WASHINGTON –Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced several amendments to a bill before the Senate Finance Committee, including legislation that incentivizes cleaner fuel sources like Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG), an improvement to the ABLE Act, and a provision that allows homeschoolers claim the Educator Expense Deduction. Senator Burr also joined Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) to offer an amendment that updates the Educator Expense Deduction for current costs of living for teachers who buy educational materials for their students. 1) Burr Amendment #1: To make modifications to the Alternative Fuels Tax Credit and Excise Tax for Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) This amendment offered by Burr modifies the federal highway excise tax for natural gas (LNG), putting it on equal footing with diesel fuel. The amendment would allow LNG to compete fairly with diesel by taxing LNG on an energy output basis rather than per gallon. The amendment would also remove the current tax disparity for propane (LPG). This amendment was approved by the Senate Finance Committee. Burr said: "America’s domestic energy markets have undergone a renaissance in the last decade, with opportunities opening up across the spectrum. My amendment will level the playing field and encourage more consumers and business owners to use products that best suit their needs – whether that’s LNG, propane, or diesel. It also ensures that the United States continues to be a leader in energy and innovation. I will continue to work with my colleagues to get this passed by the full Senate." 2) Burr Amendment #2: Improvement to the ABLE Act The amendment eliminates the state residency requirement in the recently enacted Stephen Beck Jr. Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which created the 529(A) ABLE accounts. 529(A) accounts are tax-preferred savings accounts akin to 529 college savings plans, but for individuals who became severely disabled prior to the age of 26. This would treat ABLE accounts just like traditional 529 accounts, which allow a student or family to have an account in any state rather than be limited to the state in which the student or family resides. This amendment is supported by a broad range of organizations, including American Foundation for the Blind, Autism Speaks, College Savings Foundation (CSF), Investment Company Institute (ICI), Lutheran Services in America Disability Network, National Disability Institute (NDI), National Down Syndrome Congress, National Down Syndrome Society (NDSS), SIFMA, The Arc, and The Jewish Federations of North America. You can read their letter of support here. Burr said: “ABLE accounts were created to empower disabled individuals and their families to save for their future care. This change will help get these important accounts off the ground so families can start saving for their disabled child’s future.” Senator Burr Discusses ABLE Act Fix in Finance Committee Mark-Up 3) Burr Amendment #3: Extends Eligibility for the Educator Expense Deduction to Parents who Homeschool Children This amendment would extend the Educator Expense Deduction to individuals who homeschool their children. Currently, public and private school teachers can claim a deduction on their tax return for up to $250 for the cost of classroom supplies. Under the Burr amendment, parents who homeschool their kids could get the same deduction. Burr said: “This extension would ensure that families who educate their children at home also get to take advantage of the same tax deduction that teachers in public and private schools already get. Homeschooling is an important option for parents when they consider their children’s education, and I am proud of the homeschool community we have in North Carolina.” 4) Bennet-Burr Amendment: Updates the Educator Expense Deduction The Bennet-Burr amendment would allow the $250 Educator Expense Deduction to rise with inflation. Teachers open their pocketbooks and wallets to buy classroom items all with their student’s academic achievement at heart – this provision of the tax code allows them to do so with a break on the taxes they pay to Uncle Sam. This provision of the tax code has not been updated since 2002 and still reflects its nominal value, weakening its usefulness to teachers. The Bennet-Burr amendment was approved by the Senate Finance Committee. Burr said: “Teachers and principals who use their personal funds to pay for classroom expenses for their students benefit from this tax provision. I’m pleased Senator Bennet and I could work together to make sure that teachers can get the full value of this deduction.”
07.17.2015	07.17.15 Senate Passes Older Americans Act, Bipartisan Legislation for Nearly 12 Million U.S. Seniors This week marks the 50th anniversary of signing of Older Americans Act into law WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), and Senate Special Committee on Aging Chairman Susan Collins (R-Maine), commend the Senate passage of the Older Americans Act Reauthorization Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation to continue social and nutrition services—from home-delivered meals to senior centers—for nearly 12 million U.S. seniors. This week marks the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Older Americans Act into law. “More and more seniors have been calling North Carolina home over the past 15 years,” said Burr. “Programs like the Older Americans Act ensure that local communities can help provide services to their older, and often most vulnerable, members. Current law doesn’t reflect where seniors are moving, meaning that states with the largest elderly populations don’t have sufficient funding for programs like Meals on Wheels. What the Senate passed today would reauthorize the Older Americans Act and help ensure that the funding is following those who most need it.” Today is a good day for our nation’s seniors, as passage of this bipartisan legislation will continue services for the nearly 150,000 Tennesseans who rely on home-delivered meals, or on programs that provide rides to their doctors’ appointments or the grocery store,” said Alexander. “For 50 years, the Older Americans Act has provided grants to states so they can help millions of seniors age with dignity—helping them live more comfortably at home or ensuring high-quality care at a nursing home.” “We should be doing everything we can to support our seniors in leading healthy, fulfilling lives, and that’s why I am proud our bipartisan bill passed the Senate to help make that a reality,” said Murray. “From putting in place stronger elder abuse protections to sustaining our investment in funding for Meals on Wheels, this legislation makes important improvements to the support and resources available to seniors in Washington state and across the country. “The Older Americans Act programs have been extremely important for low-income older Vermonters and seniors across the country,” said Sanders.“Programs like home-delivered meals are a wise investment to keep seniors healthy and out of expensive hospitals and nursing homes. I am pleased to see this bill pass with such strong support today.” “The Older Americans Act funds critical services in communities across the country that help to keep older adults healthy and independent,” said Collins. “This funding supports some of the most vital and successful programs for our nation’s seniors. It is also particularly significant that we have now passed this important reauthorization bill since July marks the 50th anniversary of the Older Americans Act.” The Older Americans Act has been due for reauthorization since 2011.
07.17.2015	07.17.15 Burr Legislation to Increase North Carolina Education Funding Clears the Senate WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statements on the passage of not one but two pieces of legislation accompanying the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA) that will increase funding for education children in North Carolina. “I’m beyond thrilled that North Carolinians will see a significant increase in education funding for our children as a result of these two pieces of legislation,” said Burr. “For the future of our state, it is imperative that we do all we can to assist our students, regardless of background, in reaching high academic standards. Only through a strong education system can we secure a bright economic future for North Carolina. It is my belief that today we have legislation that will help get us back on the right path to empowering our students at a local level.” Yesterday, the bipartisan Full Educational Opportunity Act, was added by a vote of 59 to 39 to the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA). Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) co-sponsored this legislation, and North Carolina stands to gain up to $72 million, based on current appropriations numbers, in federal funds for impoverished children in North Carolina. In the committee mark up of ECAA in April, Senator Burr fought for an additional $27 million annually to North Carolina schools by passing an amendment to modernize federal grants for states that experienced an increase in population since 2001. This amendment was incorporated into the ECAA and subsequently passed the floor vote today and will increase funding by 47% over current federal funding amounts.
07.16.2015	07.16.15 Burr Statement on Events in Chattanooga TN WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the tragic events today in Chattanooga TN: “Today’s events in Chattanooga are deeply troubling. I extend my deepest sympathies to the families of our dedicated service members who were killed in this senseless act of violence. I have closely monitored these events through continuous engagement with our law enforcement and intelligence community officials. We must remain vigilant in our efforts to counter those who seek to conduct great harm against Americans.”
07.16.2015	07.16.15 Burr-Bennet Legislation to Better Fund Education for Impoverished Children Passes Senate WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) today made the following statements on the passage of the bipartisan amendment, Full Educational Opportunity Act, to the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA) by a vote of 59 to 39. “The passage of this amendment will finally start to properly fund education for impoverished children across the country, as was the original intent of the legislation in 1965,” said Burr. “Under the new formula, all kids in the United States will receive equal treatment across the board and many will see an increase in federal dollars, including those in North Carolina. I am proud that we’ve finally solved this problem, and I thank my colleagues for voting to treat all low-income children the same way.” “This amendment means kids in Colorado will be treated more equitably,” Bennet said. “The current formula shortchanges kids in Colorado. Our proposal puts in place a formula that works to fulfill the intent of federal education funding, to help kids in low-income communities, ‎particularly those living in concentrations of poverty.” The Full Educational Opportunity Act makes more federal education dollars available to low income children across the United States by treating poor children the same. The legislation clarifies the Title 1-A section of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to end a discriminatory policy that unfairly favors a few states at the expense of poor children who reside in the rest of America. The amendment would more properly allocate education money to 36 states, plus the District of Columbia, by multiplying their number of poor children by national costs to educate them instead of relying on the current, byzantine formula used by the federal government. The formula kicks in after only $2.5 billion more in Title I-A appropriations. North Carolina will benefit by increase of approximately 18% over current funding levels. Colorado will benefit by an increase of approximately 19% over current funding levels. Legislation is available here. Watch Burr’s floor speech from today here. State breakdowns based on current appropriations levels available here.
07.15.2015	07.15.15 Burr Speaks on Bipartisan Legislation to Increase Education Funding for America’s Poorest Children WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) spoke on his bipartisan amendment, Full Educational Opportunity Act, to the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA) on the floor last night. The Full Educational Opportunity Act makes more federal educations dollars available to low income children across the United States by treating poor children the same. Watch Burr’s Floor Speech here Senator Burr on the Senate Floor: “For decades, this [amendment] penalized poorer states who spend high shares of their tax revenue on education but don't spend as much in absolute terms as wealthier states. This change ensures that poor children born in a poor state aren't penalized because of their zip code and for not living in a wealthy state in the country.” The legislation clarifies the Title 1-A section of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to end a discriminatory policy that unfairly favors a few states at the expense of poor children who reside in the rest of America. The amendment would more properly allocate education money to 36 states, plus the District of Columbia, by multiplying their number of poor children by national costs to educate them instead of relying on the current, byzantine formula used by the federal government. North Carolina alone will benefit by $72 million dollars representing an increase of 17.41% over current funding levels. Background: In 1965, President Johnson and Congress pledged to provide “financial assistance to school districts serving areas with concentrations of children from low-income families”. Over successive revisions of the law over the decades, however, it has become clear the tool for achieving this goal –Title I-A’s allocation formula – was constructed in a flawed manner, limiting its ability to target funding to those students most in need. Rather than fix these flaws, Congress continued to compound the problem by creating more complicated formulas and promises of new funding that never materialize. The end result has been a formula rigged to benefit a handful of states at the expense of the rest of the country. The Problem: Title I-A, and the low-income children it is intended to serve, suffers from the following flaws: 1. Title I-A is comprised of four complicated formulas, each of which contains flaws in how well low-income students are targeted; 2. Current law focuses on education expenditures and effort, as measured by tax base, as a proxy for cost, but really reflects the wealth of states and districts and their ability to spend on their students; 3. The formulas tend to favor very large districts in absolute numbers, but have no concentrated poverty test to ensure they are not benefiting at the expense of smaller districts that have equally high pockets of poverty; Summary: The Full Educational Opportunity Act does the following: 1. Streamlines all Title I-A funding into one formula, a reformed Educational Finance Incentive Grant (EFIG) formula, entitled “Equity Grants”; 2. Removes current law’s distortionary policies that benefit higher wealth and capacity states and districts while limiting Title I-A’s reach to concentrated areas of poverty throughout the country; and 3. Provides poor children in smaller districts with the same opportunity as those in larger districts. Additional details on the plan are available here. Legislation is available here. Additional state breakdowns are available here.
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Burr Offers Bipartisan Legislation to Increase Education Funding for North Carolina’s Poorest Children WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced their amendment, Full Educational Opportunity Act,to the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA) yesterday. The Full Educational Opportunity Act makes more federal educations dollars available to low income children across the United States by treating poor children the same. The legislation clarifies the Title 1-A section of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to end a discriminatory policy that unfairly favors a few states at the expense of poor children who reside in the rest of America. The amendment would more properly allocate education money to 36 states, plus the District of Columbia, by multiplying their number of poor children by national costs to educate them instead of relying on the current, byzantine formula used by the federal government. North Carolina alone will benefit by $72 million representing an increase of 17.41% over current funding levels. “The vast majority of impoverished children in the United States are shortchanged by a federal aid formula rigged to favor just of 25% of the country,” said Burr. “Rather than fix the lopsided funding problem that delivers uneven funding for children that need it the most in states like North Carolina, Congress compounded the problem by creating more complicated formulas and promises of new funding that never materialize. This bill finally provides poor children in smaller districts with the same opportunity as those in larger districts and it’s overdue.” “Title I funding is intended to help kids in low-income communities, particularly those living in concentrations of poverty,” Bennet said. “The current funding formula shortchanges kids in Colorado. We’re proposing a formula that continues to fulfill the purpose to Title I and provide additional funding to low-income students, consider concentrations of poverty while treating kids across the country more equitably.” Is this Fair? North Carolina • 391K Low-Income Students • $417m Title I-A Allocation 34,000 more low-income children, but $125 million less in Title I-A Allocation. Pennsylvania • 357K Low-Income Students • $542m Title I-A Allocation Under the current funding formula, North Carolina children see about $700 in federal funds less per child* than children in other states. *Via U.S. Department of Education; Numbers are per-poor child. NC: Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools: $1,161.00 per low-income child Wake County Schools: $1,141.00 per low-income child Guilford County Schools: $1,128.00 per low-income child Forsyth County Schools: $1,124.00 per low-income child Other States: Boston, Mass: $1,847.00 per low-income child Philadelphia, PA: $1,986.00 per low-income child Cleveland, OH: $1,805.00 per low-income child Richmond, VA: $1,734.00 per low-income child New Haven, CT: $1,717.00 per low-income child Newark, NJ: $1,838.00 per low-income child Background: In 1965, President Johnson and Congress pledged to provide “financial assistance to school districts serving areas with concentrations of children from low-income families”. Over successive revisions of the law over the decades, however, it has become clear the tool for achieving this goal –Title I-A’s allocation formula – was constructed in a flawed manner, limiting its ability to target funding to those students most in need. Rather than fix these flaws, Congress continued to compound the problem by creating more complicated formulas and promises of new funding that never materialize. The end result has been a formula rigged to benefit a handful of states at the expense of the rest of the country. The Problem: Title I-A, and the low-income children it is intended to serve, suffers from the following flaws: 1. Title I-A is comprised of four complicated formulas, each of which contains flaws in how well low-income students are targeted; 2. Current law focuses on education expenditures and effort, as measured by tax base, as a proxy for cost, but really reflects the wealth of states and districts and their ability to spend on their students; 3. The formulas tend to favor very large districts in absolute numbers, but have no concentrated poverty test to ensure they are not benefiting at the expense of smaller districts that have equally high pockets of poverty; Summary: The Full Educational Opportunity Act does the following: 1. Streamlines all Title I-A funding into one formula, a reformed Educational Finance Incentive Grant (EFIG) formula, entitled “Equity Grants”; 2. Removes current law’s distortionary policies that benefit higher wealth and capacity states and districts while limiting Title I-A’s reach to concentrated areas of poverty throughout the country; and 3. Provides poor children in smaller districts with the same opportunity as those in larger districts. Additional details on the plan are available here. Legislation is available here. Additional state breakdowns are available here.
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Burr Statement on Iran Deal: I Have Deep Concerns about Any Nuclear Deal with Iran WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the announcement of a final nuclear deal with Iran: “I have deep concerns about the President’s Iranian nuclear deal and anticipate a thorough Congressional review of the agreement. Several Americans are currently held in Iran, and the regime continues to be the largest supporter of terrorism in the world. Through the work of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the American people and Congress have the right to evaluate this deal and let their voices be heard.”
07.13.2015	07.13.15 Important Airlift Wing in NC Remaining Open through 2016 as a Result of Burr Legislation WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the Air Force confirmed that the 440th Airlift Wing will remain active through 2016 as a result of the amendment in the National Defense Authorization Act offered by Senators Burr and Tillis and Congresswoman Ellmers: “While not the end of this fight, the Air Force’s announcement that the airlift wing will be kept open through 2016 is good for North Carolina and the country. This announcement means that there is more time to fight for the 440th, the premier training support for our nation’s combat-ready paratroopers,” said Burr. “The soldiers at the 440th are the very tip of the spear for our global response forces and special operations communities. If we lose the C-130s at Pope, we seriously jeopardize their readiness and our nation’s strategic capabilities. For that reason, we must see-through our commitment to keep the C-130 presence at North Carolina’s Fort Bragg Pope Airfield.”
07.10.2015	07.10.15 Burr and Bennet to Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Fund All Low-Income Children Equally, Increasing Funding to Poor Children in 75% of the United States WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced they plan to introduce their amendment, Full Educational Opportunity Act, to the Every Child Achieves Act (ESEA). The Full Educational Opportunity Act makes more federal educations dollars available to low income children across the United States by treating poor children the same. The legislation clarifies the Title 1-A section of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to end a discriminatory policy that unfairly favors a few states at the expense of poor kids who reside in the rest of America. The amendment would more properly allocate education money to states by multiplying their number of poor children by national costs to educate them instead of relying on the current, byzantine formula used by the federal government. “36 states, plus the District of Columbia, are struggling to educate kids who are living in poverty because they are punished by a federal aid formula rigged to help just a handful of states,” said Burr. “It’s unfair for federal education spending intended for low-income children to favor children who live in certain parts of the country. When our government aims to assist children who need help, I expect that our laws will do just that. This amendment will rebalance the Title I-A formula once and for all. It’s time to end this discrimination and to do right by these kids.” “Title I funding is intended to help kids in low-income communities, particular those living in concentrations of poverty,” Bennet said. “The current funding formula shortchanges kids in Colorado. We’re proposing a formula that continues to fulfill the purpose to Title I and provide additional funding to low-income students, consider concentrations of poverty while treating kids across the country more equitably.” Background: In 1965, President Johnson and Congress pledged to provide “financial assistance to school districts serving areas with concentrations of children from low-income families”. Over successive revisions of the law over the decades, however, it has become clear the tool for achieving this goal –Title I-A’s allocation formula – was constructed in a flawed manner, limiting its ability to target funding to those students most in need. Rather than fix these flaws, Congress continued to compound the problem by creating more complicated formulas and promises of new funding that never materialize. The end result has been a formula rigged to benefit a handful of states at the expense of the rest of the country. The Problem: Title I-A, and the low-income children it is intended to serve, suffers from the following flaws: 1. Title I-A is comprised of four complicated formulas, each of which contains flaws in how well low-income students are targeted; 2. Current law focuses on education expenditures and effort, as measured by tax base, as a proxy for cost, but really reflects the wealth of states and districts and their ability to spend on their students; 3. The formulas tend to favor very large districts in absolute numbers, but have no concentrated poverty test to ensure they are not benefiting at the expense of smaller districts that have equally high pockets of poverty; Summary: The Full Educational Opportunity Act does the following: 1. Streamlines all Title I-A funding into one formula, a reformed Educational Finance Incentive Grant (EFIG) formula, entitled “Equity Grants”; 2. Removes current law’s distortionary policies that benefit higher wealth and capacity states and districts while limiting Title I-A’s reach to concentrated areas of poverty throughout the country; and 3. Provides poor children in smaller districts with the same opportunity as those in larger districts. Additional details on the plan are available here. Is This Fair? North Carolina • 391K Low-Income Students • $417m Title I-A Allocation 34,000 more low-income children, but $125 million less in Title I-A Allocation. Pennsylvania • 357K Low-Income Students • $542m Title I-A Allocation Colorado • 143K Low-Income Students • $150m Title I-A Allocation 19,000 More Low-Income Students, but $46 million less in Title I-A Allocation. Maryland • 124K Low-Income Students • $196m Title I-A Allocation Indiana • 235K Low-Income Students • $256m Title I-A Allocation 7,000 more Low-Income Students, but $75 million less in Title I-A Allocation. New Jersey • 228K Low-Income Students • $331m Title I-A Allocation Nevada • 102K Low-Income Students • $116m Title I-A Allocation Nevada has 20,000 more low-income students but gets same Title I-A Allocation. Connecticut • 80K Low-Income Students • $116m Title I-A Allocation Washington • 204K Low-Income Students • $230m Title I-A Allocation 45,000 more Low-Income Kids, but $1 million lower Title I-A Allocation. Massachusetts • 159K Low-Income Students • $231m Title I-A Allocation New Mexico • 107K Low-Income Students • $116m Title I-A Allocation 27,000 more Low-Income Kids, same Title I-A Allocations. Connecticut • 80K Low-Income Students • $116m Title I-A Allocation Florida • 690K Low-Income Students • $774m Title I-A Allocation Similar number of Low-Income Kids, but Florida receives $400 million less than New York. New York • 686K Low-Income Students • $1.1billion Title I-A Allocation
07.09.2015	07.09.15 Troop Cuts Are a Poor National Security Choice by the Administration WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the Army announced troop cuts, including 842 at Fort Bragg in North Carolina: "The administration's decision to cut troops is the latest in a string of poor national security choices. General Dempsey just characterized the global security environment as the most unpredictable he has seen in 40 years of service,” said Burr. “FBI Director Comey yesterday reiterated that the Islamic State is continuing to make enormous gains in recruiting terrorists and our intelligence community is largely blind as a result of new encryption technologies. In this uncertain time, the defense budget is not where future cuts should come from. The Army cutting ground forces is as concerning to me as the Air Force's backwards decision to disband the 440th Air Wing at Bragg.” Fayetteville Observer has been reporting on the cuts noting that “[i]n all, the Army is announcing cuts affecting 40,000 soldiers by the end of 2017 from installations across the nation.”
07.08.2015	07.08.15 Chairman Burr's Opening Remarks Counterterrorism, Counterintelligence, and the Challenges of "Going Dark" Good afternoon. I would like to welcome our witness today, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James Comey. I would note that Director Comey appeared this morning before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Jim, I appreciate your appearing before us now and enduring a long day of Congressional testimony. As we often conduct our hearings in closed session, I’d like to take this opportunity to publicly commend Director Comey and the men and women of the FBI for their outstanding efforts in keeping our country safe. It is due in no small part to the FBI’s vigilance – in concert with their Intelligence Community partners – that our nation enjoyed peaceful and safe Independence Day celebrations this past weekend. Director Comey, as you are well aware, extremists fueled by anti-Western propaganda remain intent on inflicting harm on US interests at home and abroad. Over the past year, we have witnessed the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – also referred to as “ISIL” or “the Islamic State” – attempt to inspire a wide range of individuals to conduct attacks against innocent civilians. Largely as a result of ISIL’s media savvy, the number of US-based individuals in 2015 seeking to conduct attacks in the Homeland – or travel overseas to join ISIL – has already exceeded the combined number of individuals attempting these activities in 2013 and 2014. Unfortunately, the threats facing our nation are not limited to terrorist actors. Foreign governments remain intent on stealing our country’s most valuable trade, intellectual property, and national security secrets; The FBI is charged with confronting all of these threats, as well, and is continually challenged by the capabilities and tradecraft employed by these nation state actors. In addition to these fairly unique jurisdictional issues, the FBI conducts routine law enforcement investigations of drug trafficking, theft of government property, child-pornography, robbery, extortion, murder, and the list goes on. These criminals are also turning to encrypted communications as a means of evading detection. These two issues – that might at first glance appear unrelated – are in fact closely linked. Communication between a terrorist group’s operational commanders and field soldiers requires enabling technology. Communications between a foreign state and its “spies” also requires enabling technology. In both cases, the enabling technology used by terrorists and foreign state spies is increasingly secure, encrypted communications. Both of these adversaries are taking advantage of the rapid advances in secure communications that are employing advanced commercially available encryption. Director, as I understand the issue, even when law enforcement has the legal authority to intercept and access communications pursuant to a court order, you may lack the technical ability to do so – this is what you have referred to as “Going Dark.” You have described it as one of the biggest challenges facing your agency and law enforcement generally. This challenge falls at the intersection of technology, law, freedom and security. It results from the adoption of universal encryption. These applications are designed so that only the user has the key to decode their content. In these cases, when the FBI – or any other law enforcement agency – requests access to a user’s communications via a lawful warrant, it is inaccessible and unreadable. It does not matter whether the user is a suspected terrorist, child molester, spy, or drug trafficker – law enforcement is blind, or becoming so; and, as a result, we are less safe. I – like all Americans – desire privacy. As Americans, we are guaranteed the right to be secure, pursuant to the 4th Amendment, in our “persons, houses, papers, and effects.” I am also concerned, though, as are my fellow members, about the terrorist, counterintelligence, and other criminal threats to those very same things. I strongly believe that we must identify a solution that first protects Americans’ privacy but also allows for lawful “searches” under valid court order. Director Comey, you have said that the encryption now readily available is “equivalent to a closet that can’t be opened” or “a safe that can’t be cracked.” You have an opportunity today to speak to the Committee – and the American people – and convince us that in order to keep the American people safe, you need to be able to “open that closet,” and to “crack that safe.” There are no easy answers and we are embarking on what will be a robust debate. Director, you wrote Monday that part of your job is to “make sure the debate is informed by a reasonable understanding of the costs.” I look forward to your testimony, this discussion, and I appreciate your being here. I now turn to the distinguished Vice Chairman for any remarks she may have. Read FBI Director Comey's opening statement here.
07.04.2015	07.04.15 Senator Burr's Fourth of July Message On Independence Day we remember what our Founding Fathers accomplished 239 years ago by signing their names to the Declaration of Independence. Their bravery and commitment to freedom and independence created this great country, and they provided the foundation for the liberties we enjoy everyday. With freedom comes great responsibility, and the debates in Washington over the past few months continue to focus on issues important to all Americans. From the defense of our nation to the care of our most vulnerable, there is much going on in Washington that affects you and your family. Benjamin Franklin put it best when he said “[w]here liberty dwells, there is my county.” In my career as a public servant, I have sought to empower North Carolinians to take back control of their choices. Liberty is one of the greatest treasures our Founding Fathers gave us and we must do everything we can to continue protect it. As you celebrate with friends and family today, please take the time to think of those before us and those who continue to defend us, our freedoms, and our way of life.
07.01.2015	07.01.15 Advisory: FBI Director Comey to Testify in Open Senate Intelligence Committee Hearing Next Week WASHINGTON – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) announced that the Committee will hold an open hearing, "Counterterrorism, Counterintelligence, and the Challenges of 'Going Dark',” with Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey to testify next week. This open hearing will examine the growing terrorist and nation-state threats to the United States and our allies and how the proliferation of commercial encryption is challenging the FBI’s lawful investigative tools. Details Hearing: “Counterterrorism, Counterintelligence, and the Challenges of 'Going Dark'” Witness: Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James B. Comey When: Wednesday, July 8, 2015 at 2:30 pm Where: Hart Senate Office Building Room 216 This is the second open hearing this year and follows National Counter Terrorism Center Director Nicholas Rassmussen’s testimony in February.
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Burr, Tillis Applaud North Carolina Inclusions in the DRIVE Act WASHINGTON –U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) applaud the inclusion of their legislation to establish I-44 to Hampton Roads and US 70 corridors into the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy (DRIVE) Act. These additions were included as part of the Senate Environment and Public Works' (EPW) surface transportation bill which was reported out on Wednesday. “I am pleased that that the Chairman and committee included our legislation to improve the North Carolina’s infrastructure in the DRIVE Act,” Senator Burr said. “Not only is this a boon to the North Carolinians living along the corridors, but for all of those who will have better access to our state, whether it’s to do business or to visit our scenic treasures. “The inclusion of our transportation and infrastructure legislation in the DRIVE Act is a win for the people of North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “A continued focus on improving our state’s infrastructure and supporting the creation of good-paying North Carolina jobs, the funding for this legislation is essential in promoting economic growth for our local economies.” Read the text of the legislation here.
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Obamacare is not working for Americans WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the Supreme Court handed down a ruling on the Affordable Care Act’s subsidies: “Regardless of today’s decision by the Supreme Court, the fact remains that Obamacare is not working for the American people,” said Sen. Burr. “While the Court may have ruled on the issue of subsidies in the federal exchanges, this fundamentally flawed law continues to speak for itself in the form of broken promises, government mandates, and double-digit premium increases. Obamacare must be repealed and replaced with health care reforms that expand access to quality and affordable health care by empowering individuals in their health care decisions—not Washington bureaucrats.”
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Senate Intelligence Committee Advances FY2016 Authorization Bill WASHINGTON – Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced the committee voted 15-0 to approve the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. The bill’s next step will be consideration before the full Senate. Senator Burr said: “Our nation is facing more threats every day. America’s security depends on our intelligence community’s ability to detect and thwart attacks on the homeland, our personnel and interests overseas, and our allies. This year’s legislation arms the intelligence community with the resources they need, and reinforces congressional oversight of intelligence activities.” Senator Feinstein said: “With the threat of terrorism greater than ever, the role of intelligence agencies to identify and analyze threats remains the best way to prevent an attack. Budgets constraints continue to threaten these roles, so it’s more important than ever that the committee conduct strict oversight and direct limited funds to areas where they’ll have the greatest impact.” The bill authorizes funding for the U.S. intelligence community and provides numerous legal authorities and requirements: Makes the position of National Counterintelligence Executive subject to Senate confirmation. Requires reports on matters relating to China and Russia. Requires Director of National Intelligence to develop a strategy for comprehensive, interagency review of national security satellite systems. Requires electronic communication service providers (such as social media companies) to inform authorities, as determined by the attorney general, when they become aware of terrorist activity. Requires intelligence agencies to notify the committee of promotions and movement in positions in the senior levels of the intelligence community. Directs the Director of National Intelligence to conduct a declassification review of video from the 2012 Benghazi attack.
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Burr Bill Clears Hurdle to Increase Access to New Medical Technologies for Seniors WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Finance Committee approved Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) legislation, S.1253, the Patient Access to Disposable Medical Technology Act of 2015. This bill, co-sponsored with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), will make innovative medical technologies more readily available for seniors through better Medicare reimbursement for these new technologies and improved patient access to them. “Medicare doesn’t always recognize innovations in health care, which is leaving our seniors behind in getting the latest medical technology,” Burr said. “Passing this bill sends the clear signal that seniors should be able to benefit from the best American innovation has to offer. Innovative disposable products can help patients heal faster, and this legislation increases access to some of these ground breaking technologies so seniors can enjoy a better quality of life.” “Colorado seniors are able to take better care of their health thanks to medical innovations that they can use at home,” Bennet said. “This bill helps ensure that Medicare is keeping pace with this technology by covering these costs. It’s a simple update to the Medicare program that the Senate should pass quickly.” Burr fights for seniors' access to cutting edge medical technologies S. 1253 will amend Medicare to make it easier for seniors to benefit from disposable wound technologies in their homes. This will give more certainty as to how Medicare will reimburse these cutting-edge technologies and incorporate them into the Medicare program on behalf of seniors. Burr and Bennet introduced S. 1253 on May 8th, 2015. A one pager of the bill is available here.
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Burr Recognizes Military Caregivers WASHINGTON – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senators Murray (D-WA) and Blumenthal (D-CT), introduced a resolution recognizing the daisy as the flower for military caregivers: "Military caregivers play an important role in caring for injured veterans, both physically and emotionally, and often at great personal sacrifice," Burr said. "The family members and loved ones who serve as primary caregivers are rarely acknowledged for their hard work and compassion. The daisy symbolizes unwavering loyalty and love and is a fitting symbol of military families and their sacrifices in sustaining our nation.” Senator Burr’s Caregiver and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 was signed into law during the 111th Congress while Burr held the position of Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. The Caregiver law strengthened the support for family caregivers of seriously disabled veterans, including training and certification required to meet the veteran's needs, access to ongoing support services, counseling and mental health services, respite care, medical care, and a monthly personal caregiver allowance. Read more here. Read the text of the resolution here.
06.18.2015	06.18.15 Burr on Passage of the Defense Authorization Bill: Armed Forces Must Have the Resources They Need WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2016 by a vote of 71-15: “I’m pleased that the Senate has acted to ensure that our military has sufficient resources to combat America’s enemies and provide security across the globe, and ensured our troops are properly compensated. Every day, service members fight to secure our freedoms and our forces must have the resources they need to keep our country safe. North Carolina alone is home to 8 bases and several installations, so maintaining these facilities is critical for the state, as well as our nation’s readiness. Additionally, the Authorization bill’s amendment, which I co-sponsored with Senator Tillis, will continue the C-130 presence at North Carolina’s Fort Bragg Pope Airfield. I hope President Obama will see the strong bipartisan support for this bill and lift his veto threat against it.” Last week, the Senate approved an amendment to the NDAA that would increase the footprint of the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg after the Department of Defense marked it for closure.
06.18.2015	06.18.15 Burr, Franken Introduce Bill to Bring Medical Devices to Patients Faster WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Al Franken (D-MN) introduced the FDA Device Accountability Act. The Device Act would eliminate the unnecessary burdens that are slowing down the FDA’s consideration of new, innovative medical devices. This legislation would allow Americans to benefit from new medical devices as quickly as possible. “America is a global leader in medical research, development, and innovation,” said Senator Burr. “Ensuring that safe medical devices are developed and reviewed quickly will help get them to patients faster, which will improve and save lives. This legislation will also help cut down on the total time it takes for patients to benefit from approved medical devices by permitting more efficient clinical trials. As Congress works to support innovation for healthier Americans, I hope my colleagues will see the benefit of these commonsense solutions and join me in supporting them.” “For the companies in Minnesota and across the country that are developing new and innovative medical technologies, the current government-approval process can be needlessly slow, frustrating, and costly,” said Sen. Franken. “Many Minnesota device makers have expressed to me that inconsistencies and lack of clarity in the regulatory process not only delay patients’ access to new devices, but they also stifle innovation at their companies and threaten jobs in our state. We can do better, and these commonsense measures will help shorten the time it takes to bring a device to market, while ensuring safety for patients who can benefit from these life-saving technologies.” The FDA Device Accountability Act – “The Device Act” – will not only ensure that the FDA eliminates unnecessary burdens when reviewing devices, but it will also permit more efficient device clinical trials through the ability to use centralized Institutional Review Boards (IRBs); and require the FDA to update guidance on certain point-of-care tests performed in doctor’s offices. Read the one pager on The Device Act here.
06.18.2015	06.18.15 Following Push by Burr and Merkley, C-123 Veterans Will Receive Care and Benefits for Agent Orange Exposure WASHINGTON – Following a years-long push by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR), the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced today that it will reverse previous policies that had denied veterans’ claims and allow veterans who flew on Agent Orange-contaminated C-123 planes following the Vietnam War to receive related care and benefits from the VA.‎ Burr and Merkley have led a bipartisan Senate effort to get justice for these veterans, repeatedly urging the VA to recognize these veterans’ ailments as Agent Orange-related and to give them proper care and compensation through the VA system. “The effort of these veterans to secure overdue VA care and benefits for harmful exposure to Agent Orange has not been one of the agency’s finest hours,” said Burr. “This frustrating, four year process has laid bare the lengths that the VA will go to disregard science and the facts of the historical record. I am pleased Secretary McDonald has chosen to finally do the right thing for these ailing veterans, but it shouldn't have been this hard or taken so long.” Merkley said after today’s announcement, “These veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange during their service on contaminated aircraft were injured serving our country, and we owe them the best care possible. Whether they were active duty or reservists, their sacrifices should be recognized. I’m glad the VA has finally reached the right decision and the affected veterans will receive justice, and I thank Secretary McDonald for getting this done.” Several years ago, this issue was brought to both senators’ attention by retired Air Force Major Wes Carter, formerly a resident of Asheville, NC and later a resident of McMinnville, OR, who was among the affected veterans. Carter had taken the lead in investigating on behalf of his fellow veterans and organizing efforts to get them the care and benefits they needed. In 2011, Burr and Merkley began pressing the VA to take action to help C-123 veterans suffering from the aftereffects of Agent Orange exposure. Then, in January of this year, the Institute of Medicine released a study affirming veterans’ claims that they had indeed been exposed to dangerous levels of dioxins on improperly decontaminated aircraft that had carried Agent Orange during the Vietnam War – directly refuting the VA’s past claims that there was insufficient scientific evidence linking exposure to dried Agent Orange to health effects decades later. Burr and Merkley again pressed the VA for action. In April, they led a bipartisan group of Senators urging the VA to act quickly and to ensure that Air Force reservists, who constitute a majority of those who served on the aircraft, are equally eligible for care and benefits. After today's decision by the VA, affected C-123 veterans will be immediately eligible to receive the care and benefits they need for Agent Orange exposure.
06.16.2015	06.16.15 Burr Presses Veterans Affairs Secretary on VA Clinic Failures in North Carolina WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) continued to press Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald on the recent failures to provide medical services to Veterans at the Wilmington, North Carolina, VA Health Care Center (HCC) due to water safety problems. On March 19, 2015, the Cape Fear Public Utility Authority received a water quality complaint from the Wilmington HCC. The utility tested the water inside the clinic, determined there was an interior plumbing problem, and advised the HCC to stop using the water on March 23. The efforts to correct the water quality problems are now in their third month. Senator Burr outlines his concerns in a letter sent yesterday, “While VA says that it is referring patients requiring urgent care procedures to community providers at VA expense, I have heard from concerned veterans who tell me VA is not fully honoring its commitment to refer urgent care patients to community providers and that patients are, in some cases, being required to travel beyond forty miles to receive care at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. I understand that Fayetteville’s forty mile radius and Wilmington’s overlap to some extent, but if this “overlap” is part of the reasoning for having veterans travel further for care which is available locally, it defies common sense and may also defy good medical sense.” Senator Burr requests a briefing on his concerns in July. You can read the letter here.
06.15.2015	06.15.15 Burr Applauds Plan to Update Bonner Bridge Infrastructure WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after news that the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT), NC Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) have come to an agreement with Defenders of Wildlife and the National Wildlife Refuge Association that will allow the Herbert C. Bonner Bridge over the Oregon Inlet to be replaced, along with vulnerable portions of NC 12. “I applaud the efforts of NCDOT, NC DENR, FHWA, Defenders of Wildlife, and the National Wildlife Refuge Association to come together on a solution for the replacement of North Carolina’s Bonner Bridge. The condition of Bonner Bridge and NC 12 has been a major concern of many residents living in Eastern North Carolina for years, as they serve as the major evacuation routes in case of emergency. Each hurricane season thousands of residents and tourists rely on the Bonner Bridge for their safety. Replacing the bridge will alleviate those safety concerns while protecting the beauty of our coastline and continuing to support the local economy.” Read more about the agreement for Bonner Bridge and NC 12, here.
06.11.2015	06.11.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Today’s Cybersecurity Amendment Cloture Vote WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the Senate vote to end the filibuster of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015: “The American people deserve the privacy protections included in this legislation. Those entrusted with personal information, from banks to telecommunications companies, know those protections are included and offered their support in an effort to combat the threats against this country. In opposing cloture on this bill, however, the Senate allows foreign adversaries and international criminals to continue to steal Americans’ personal information and intrude on their privacy. I don't think the American people will respond well to claims that those who voted against this effort today did so because they didn't like the manner in which they had to vote. Perhaps when Senators have their own information stolen by North Korean hackers they'll react differently.” The bill includes strong commitments to personal privacy, while spurring the information sharing that is necessary to stop future cyber-attacks before they happen, not after Americans personal, financial, and private information is stolen by foreign agents and criminal gangs. This legislation creates a cybersecurity information sharing environment that works much like a “neighborhood watch” program, allowing all participants to get a better understanding of the current cybersecurity threats that may be used against them. Senator Burr gave the GOP Weekly Address on his cybersecurity bill in April, and the bill was reported out of Committee on March 3rd, 2015 on a vote of 14-1.
06.09.2015	06.09.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on the Addition of Cybersecurity Bill to the Defense Authorization Bill WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on offering the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 as an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act: “The recent cyber breach at the Office of Personnel Management was a serious attack on our government and we cannot continue to have citizens’ personal information needlessly exposed to foreign adversaries and criminals. In passing the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act with an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 14-1, the Committee recognized the extreme threat posed by our adversaries who, in addition to the OPM breach, have stolen hundreds of millions of Americans’ personal information in the last year alone, swiped intellectual property, and conducted attacks on our agencies. Not only does CISA propose a solution to help address these threats, it does so in a way that works to ensure the personal privacy of all Americans. We can no longer simply watch Americans’ personal information continue to be compromised. This bill is long needed and will help us combat threats to our country and our economy.” Senator Burr gave the GOP Weekly Address on his cybersecurity bill in April, and the bill was reported out of Committee on March 3rd, 2015 on a vote of 14-1.
06.04.2015	06.04.15 Burr Effort to Save 440th Airlift Wing from Closure Passes Senate WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after an amendment that would keep open the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg passed the Senate. The amendment was added to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016 and was cosponsored by Senators Burr and Tillis. “I am tremendously pleased that Pope Army Airfield at Fort Bragg will remain the premier training ground for our nation’s combat ready paratroopers. They are the tip of the spear for our intelligence and special operations communities, said Senator Burr. “Adding this amendment to the final Defense authorization bill ensures modernized aircraft will not be disposed of, but will instead fulfill their military purpose by directly contributing to the training and readiness of our airborne and special operations troops.”
06.02.2015	06.02.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Senate Passage of USA Freedom Act WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on today’s USA Freedom Act vote, which he opposed: “The evening news is a nightly reminder that our country is under constant threat from terrorist groups and established nations who will stop at nothing to see us fall,” said Chairman Burr. “We have a dedicated intelligence community, staffed by patriotic Americans, that does everything it can to protect our nation using tools that are legal, valid, and effective. The amendments offered did not alter the structure of the House bill. They were reasonable modifications that extended the transition time to ensure that the new system was up to the task, and required the phone companies to notify the government when they planned on changing their data retention policies. I am disappointed in the final bill and, quite frankly, am very concerned about the new system’s ability to keep up with the threats we face.”
06.01.2015	06.01.15 Proposed Premium Hikes Further Evidence of how the President’s Health Care Law is Failing to Lower Health Care Costs WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after health insurers offering plans in North Carolina announced significant premium increases to Obamacare health plans. “Today’s announcements regarding the proposed rate filings are further evidence of how the President’s health care law is failing to lower health care costs,” said Senator Burr. “Despite being promised that Obamacare would lower premiums, it is doing the exact opposite. These skyrocketing premiums are a major blow to North Carolina's working families. We must look to replace Obamacare with common sense reforms that will increase affordability, expand access to quality coverage and care, and put decision-making power back into the hands of North Carolinians.”
06.01.2015	06.01.15 Burr’s Legislation Cracking Down on Sex Offenders Signed into Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, United States Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released a statement following Friday’s news that the President signed the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. Included in this bill was a Burr amendment to close a legal loophole that had enabled sex offenders convicted under the military justice system to evade registration with the Department of Justice and the public sex offender registry. "I am proud that this incredibly important piece of legislation has now been signed into law,” said Senator Burr. “This simple fix helps prevent sex offenders from eluding law enforcement and targeting further victims. I thank my colleagues for their swiftness in action.” Investigations by Scripps News Service and North Carolina’s WGHP News earlier this year found that this loophole has enabled hundreds of convicted sex offenders to evade registration and allowed some to commit similar crimes again.
05.31.2015	05.31.15 Burr Releases Statement on Beau Biden's Passing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, United States Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the news of Beau Biden's untimely passing: "I am deeply saddened to hear of the death of Beau Biden. My prayers are with the Vice President and his family in this heartbreaking time. Beau served his country with distinction. I had known of Beau's fight against cancer but I did not realize that it would take his life so soon. I know his family will find peace in the life he lived."
05.29.2015	05.29.15 529 Accounts Help Families in NC Save for Children’s Future WASHINGTON – Today marks National 529 College Savings Day to increase awareness of 529 plans. In February, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bob Casey (D-PA), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Mark Warner (D.VA), Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) introduced companion legislation to H.R. 529 to enhance the already successful Section 529 college savings plans. The bill recently passed 26-0 out of the Senate Finance Committee. H.R. 529 was introduced by Representatives Lynn Jenkins (R-KS.) and Ron Kind (D-WI.) in the House of Representatives in January. H.R. 529 quickly passed the House with a sweeping bipartisan vote of 401-20. “College savings accounts allow parents to save for their children’s future. Additionally, thanks to the ABLE Act, parents can also save for a disabled child's future care,” said Senator Burr. “This legislation brought forward by both the House and Senate will allow some additional flexibility to help these accounts administratively function better. I hope we will swiftly pass this commonsense, bipartisan legislation after the President’s attempt earlier this year to kill this very popular program.” “As students from all over the country struggle with spiraling tuition costs, we must do everything we can to encourage families to plan ahead and save for their children’s future.” Congresswoman Jenkins said. “The House listened to the American people and passed my legislation with nearly unanimous support to strengthen and expand 529 college savings plans. I am proud to mark 529 Day as a champion of this important college savings tool, and I encourage the Senate to quickly pass this legislation.” “Helping more Wisconsin students afford a college education is a top priority, which is why I have worked to expand the 529 college savings program. This program helps hardworking parents save money to afford to send their children to college," Congressman Kind stated. “529 plans in Iowa and across the country have helped millions of families afford a quality college education,” Senator Grassley said. “Our bill builds on this success and strengthens these plans going forward. The Senate ought to pass the bill as soon as possible so we can get this proposal on the President’s desk.” “529s are one of the most effective vehicles middle class families have to save for their child's college education," Senator Casey said. "This legislation will build on the success of 529s so more families can enjoy their benefits." “529 plans have been an important part of helping Virginia families finance their children’s educations,” Senator Warner said. “The Senate should pass our bipartisan bill to strengthen the ability of Virginians to save for college.” The House and Senate legislation would improve 529 savings plans by empowering students to use their savings for computers, eliminates an outdated and unnecessary aggregation rule, and allows taxpayers to re-deposit refunds from colleges without taxes or penalties.
05.26.2015	05.26.15 Burr Gives Memorial Day Address at USS North Carolina WASHINGTON – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) spoke at the USS North Carolina’s Memorial Day Program. His remarks included the following: “Memorial Day is a day of remembrance,” said Senator Burr. “It’s not the start of summer. It’s not the day the pools open. It’s a day to remember the sacrifices of so many.” Burr continued: "It's the individuals that built this vessel [USS North Carolina], it's those who served on it, it’s those who really committed to the acts of World War II that are the reason we're here today the fact that we can come here and assemble and talk about America’s history." Sen. Burr giving Memorial Day speech on USS North Carolina in Wilmington NC
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Burr Releases Statement on Trade Promotion Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, United States Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the Senate voted to pass the Trade Promotion bill. “After much consideration and many conversations with constituents, I decided it was ultimately important that our leaders have the ability to negotiate with other countries to sell American-made products overseas. I am pleased to hear that North Carolina employers and farmers support this provision and will benefit. An additional factor was the Senate's passage of the Customs bill, which ensures that our trade laws are enforced. Should the Senate consider whether to pass implementing legislation for trade agreements, I will examine such legislation very closely to ensure that it is in the best interest of North Carolina and the nation. We still need to learn about the deal itself and will assess it on its own merits.”
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Burr Proposes Path Forward with Patriot Act Reform Bill WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released a framework of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Improvements Act of 2015, which incorporates portions of the House’s USA Freedom Act but better supports our national security by extending the transition period of the bulk telephony metadata collection from the National Security Agency (NSA) to the telecommunications carriers. “It’s clear that the USA Freedom Act doesn’t protect our national security as well as it should, so I’m providing a framework to plug the holes in the bill,” said Chairman Burr. “My legislation provides a longer transition period to ensure that the metadata collection process moves properly to the carriers without endangering our national security or our personnel overseas. It also contains a bipartisan approach which would provide the government with advance notice of a carrier’s intent to change its data retention policies. This framework also provides a better amicus provision that will enable the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to get expert assistance without injecting unnecessary operational delay into the FISA application process. These improvements will greatly assist the Intelligence Community in their efforts to keep Americans safe both here and abroad.” Fact Sheet: FISA Improvements Act of 2015 Sponsored by Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC), the FISA Improvements Act of 2015 incorporates portions of the House’s USA Freedom Act but better supports our national security by extending the bulk data collection transition over two years. The FISA Improvements Act of 2015: Ends the transitional bulk collection program on June 30, 2017 Bulk collection authorities expire regardless of whether carrier-based process is fully operational. The carrier-based process takes effect on June 30, 2017. Contains a bipartisan approach that would provide the government with advance notice of a carrier’s intent to change its data retention policies. “Lone wolf” and “Roving” authorities are made permanent. Makes non-contentious tools used by both the Intelligence and Law Enforcement Communities permanent. Authorizes public reporting by persons subject to non-disclosure orders Permits companies who receive certain non-disclosure orders to publicly report aggregate numbers related to the types of information being sought by the government. Provides additional transparency and allows for outside experts at the FISA Courts Formally authorizes the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Courts’ inherent authority to appoint amicus curiae (outside experts). Text is based upon preferred approach by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. Provides options for private companies to report public information regarding FISA authorized inquiries. Fixes deficiencies in current authorities Permits NSA to continue electronic surveillance of overseas terrorists who enter the United States for up to 72 hours while the government seeks authority under FISA or criminal wiretap statutes to continue such surveillance. Permits the intelligence community to continue surveillance of domestic surveillance targets even if they leave the United States. Increases the statutory maximum for material support for terrorism from 15 to 20 years.
05.21.2015	05.21.15 Burr Statement on Court’s Interrogation Report Ruling WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on yesterday’s ruling by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia that there is no obligation to release an unabridged version of the SSCI interrogation report: “I am pleased by the court’s ruling which affirms that this document is a congressional document under congressional control. Further release of this highly classified document will compromise the national security of the United States and needlessly put Americans lives at risk.” The former Committee Chairman released the full unabridged, highly classified report to certain executive branch agencies in December 2014 after the Committee had already released a declassified summary along with additional and minority views earlier in the year. The full report contains highly sensitive information that would compromise U.S. personnel and interests around the world.
05.21.2015	05.21.15 ICYMI: Burr Fixes Inequity in Education Funding for Low-income Children In Case You Missed It…. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) penned an op-ed for The Hill on fixing a funding flaw in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). Earlier this year, Senator Burr introduced an amendment, which was adopted by the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and fixed a 15 year disparity in funding. The Hill: Let’s fix education funding for low income children By Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) 05/21/15 08:00 AM EDT Fifty years ago, Congress passed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), and declared “it to be the policy of the United States to provide financial assistance to school districts serving areas with concentrations of children from low-income families.” Seems straightforward, doesn’t it? Unfortunately, over the last few decades, Congress has allocated more money to wealthier states to the detriment of low-income children living in other states. As a consequence, students in 32 states and the District of Columbia are cheated out of federal funds every year. But there’s a change on the horizon that will fix this lopsided policy. Last month, the Senate Education Committee, on which I serve, debated a change to the bill’s funding formula, which is the main federal support for teachers and principals serving low-income students. I argued that Chairman Lamar Alexander’s (R-Tenn.) Every Child Achieves Act should completely remove an outdated provision in the bill that has frozen federal support to states based on population numbers from 2001. I found that the removal of this clause would finally equalize a disparity in funding, allowing resources to flow to where disadvantaged kids are living today, not where they lived in 2001. To me, this was a clear solution to an unjust funding problem that funneled money away from our most at-risk children. Population shifts have been dramatic since 2001, with states such as Colorado, Florida, Maine, Nevada, North Carolina and Tennessee among others all experiencing double-digit percent increases in low income families since 2001. But because Congress didn’t correct the problem in 2001, students in these states have been denied up to billions of dollars they deserved based on this discriminatory policy. For decades, children in my state of North Carolina and those in many others have never received these funds because of Congress’ reluctance to correct this discrepancy. Thankfully, the Committee agreed with me and now we will soon see funds flow to those at risk students who need it most across the country, instead of in certain states that have seen their populations decrease over the last decade. During committee consideration of this education bill last month, senators from states who have grown accustomed to this unjust formula fought against Chairman Alexander’s change based solely on the view that their states would lose money, even while admitting the policy they sought to continue only served to hurt other low income students across the nation. After extensive debate, the committee agreed to gradually remove this outdated provision. Unfortunately, some lawmakers would like to continue the same policy that has existed for the past fifteen years, meaning taxpayer money going to classroom seats without poor children, while deserving students are denied. In effect, these individuals believe that children in Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania matter more than children in North Carolina, Nevada, or Florida. This position cheats the majority of states – and to be clear, more states are being cheated by this policy than not – because a handful of states refuse to allow money they’ve confiscated for years to flow to areas it belongs. I firmly believe that when federal money is intended to assist the neediest Americans, it must actually go to that very group. Otherwise, we are shortchanging the people it was intended to serve. We can argue amongst ourselves about the appropriate federal education policies, but we should all agree that when the federal government proclaims to spend education money on our poorest children, the federal government should deliver on its promise. Burr is North Carolina’s senior senator, serving since 2005. He sits on the Finance and the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committees.
05.19.2015	05.19.15 Burr Sponsored Amendment Passes House in Human Trafficking Bill, Heads to President’s Desk WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. Included in S. 178, is a bipartisan provision written by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to close a legal loophole that currently enables sex offenders convicted under the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to evade registration with the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR). The Military Sex Offender Reporting amendment is in response to a Department of Defense Inspector General investigation that took place in August of 2014. “Today, my amendment to hold convicted military sex offenders accountable heads to the President’s desk. Closing the loophole that has allowed some of these sex offenders to escape detection after their release was critical to prevent additional crimes. When we know a problem exists, we cannot look the other way. I’m pleased that this legislation will become law,” said Burr. The Military Sex Offender Reporting amendment requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to register offenders directly with the Department of Justice national registry and the sex offender public website prior to the offender’s release from a Military Corrections Facility (MCF) or upon conviction if incarceration was not required. Currently, sex offenders convicted in the military justice system must self-report after release, whereas civilian sex offenders are registered prior to release. Investigations by Scripps News Service and North Carolina’s WGHP News earlier this year found that this loophole has enabled hundreds of convicted sex offenders to evade registration and allowed some to commit similar crimes again.
05.15.2015	05.15.15 Burr Pays Tribute to Two of North Carolina’s Finest During National Police Week WASHINGTON, D.C. – During National Police Week, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the deaths of two North Carolinian police officers who were killed in the line of duty during 2014: “It’s with great sadness that I commend Sergeant Jeffrey Wayne Greene of Union County and Officer Alexander Edward Thalmann of New Bern. Their service to us was too short. These brave men gave their lives in service to their communities and the state of North Carolina. As we honor law enforcement this week, I’d like to pay tribute to them and thank them and their families for their sacrifice. We owe them the greatest debt.”
05.14.2015	05.14.15 NC, VA Senators Introduce Bipartisan Road to Opportunity and Development (ROAD) Act of 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced The Road to Opportunity and Development (ROAD) Act of 2015. The bipartisan legislation amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991, designating the Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor as a future part of the interstate system, while creating opportunities for increased commerce and investment in infrastructure and jobs. Tillis’ Senate bill is co-sponsored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Mark Warner (D-VA), and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) introduced a companion bill in the House. The ROAD Act of 2015 would designate the following as a high priority corridor: U.S. Route 64 from its intersection in Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston and Elizabeth City, to U.S. Route 17 at its intersection in Norfolk, Virginia The designation of these two highways as high priority corridors ensures the two portions of the roads will become part of the Interstate system once they’re fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. Such designation would easing traffic congestion among Norfolk, Raleigh and the North Carolina coast. “The ROAD Act will open up new opportunities in North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “Legislation like this is vital to our state's infrastructure, benefiting all of those who use our roads and highways and encourages economic expansion by connecting some of the east coast’s largest ports to North Carolina’s cities and towns. I’m excited to see the possibilities the ROAD Act will open for all North Carolinians.” “I am pleased to introduce yet another bipartisan bill that focuses on improving our state’s infrastructure, reducing traffic congestion, and supporting the creation of good-paying North Carolina jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “The ROAD Act will prove essential in enhancing interstate commerce between North Carolina and Virginia, and promoting economic growth for local communities along the Raleigh-Norfolk corridor.” “This bill is a bipartisan step toward integrating the Hampton Roads region of Virginia with North Carolina’s Research Triangle,” said Senator Kaine. “Hampton Roads has so much to offer, including a skilled maritime workforce, top-tier academic institutions, a robust tourism sector, and one of the East Coast’s leading deepwater ports. The benefits of interstate highway service to Raleigh will benefit people and businesses in both states and strengthen regional commerce throughout the mid-Atlantic.” “I am proud to join Senator Kaine and our colleagues from North Carolina in introducing this bipartisan bill,” said Senator Warner. “Designating this corridor as part of the interstate system will help facilitate commerce, boost tourism and improve the quality of life in and around Norfolk and the entire Tidewater region.” The ROAD Act is the second piece of legislation Sen. Tillis and Rep. Butterfield have introduced to improve North Carolina’s infrastructure, after introducing the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 two weeks ago. Both bills will help to advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that promote economic development and enhance interstate commerce.
05.14.2015	05.14.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Passage of H.R. 2048: This Is No Time for an Untested, Unproven Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement regarding the House of Representatives vote on H.R. 2048, the USA Freedom Act. “H.R. 2048 undercuts the Intelligence Community’s capability to stop terrorist attacks here and abroad,” said Burr. “Our intelligence personnel have responsibly and professionally used authorities granted them under Section 215 for years, and have helped keep Americans safe as a result. Yesterday, the Directors of the FBI and the NSA reiterated that they believe the current tools are legal, valid, and useful ones that they do not want to lose. Even the Administration has admitted that no intentional abuses of privacy and civil liberties have resulted from the use of the legal authorities provided by Section 215. “Simply put, H.R. 2048 is trying to fix a system that isn’t broken. In its place, the House bill envisions an unknown technical solution based on uncertain access to data that may or may not exist. The NSA hasn’t even begun to design, let alone build, the system that H.R. 2048 contemplates. H.R. 2048’s lack of a mandatory data retention requirement for the telecommunications companies highlights the illusory ‘protection’ it proposes. As terror groups such as the Islamic State and Al-Qaida grow in number, capability, and technical sophistication, now is not the time to turn to an untested, unproven proposal as the House has done today.” Chairman Burr and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have introduced a clean authorization of section 215 of the Patriot Act.
05.13.2015	05.13.15 Burr on Student Loan Rate Drop: Students Benefit from 2013 Legislation to Pair Treasury Rate with Loan Rate WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on today’s announcement that federal student loan interest rates are set to drop for the upcoming school year to 4.29 percent, down from 4.66 percent: “I’m thrilled that students across the country have seen the interest rates on their student loans drop for the next year, in addition to over $8 billion in savings from the past year. When I introduced the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, I knew this law would benefit 100% of students in the US, and with today’s news, our students and parents continue to reap the benefits. The facts now show that more controversial legislation would not have served students’ best interests. My bill was the right solution at the right time.” Senator Burr and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act which was signed into law in August of 2013.
05.13.2015	05.13.15 Burr Fights for Veterans and Military Family Members Exposed to Contaminated Water WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in response to the meeting between officials from the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, officials from the Veterans Administration, representatives from North Carolina’s elected official’s offices and members of the community. The meeting took place in Greensboro and focused on the ongoing effort to convince the VA to rely on the most recent and credible body of science that confirms the drinking water at Camp Lejeune was highly contaminated with known human carcinogens from the 1950s to 1987, and very likely led to service related disabilities, particularly cancers, among veterans and their families. “It has been almost three years since Congress passed the Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act,” said Burr. “In that time, the CDC has released four studies showing that these Camp Lejeune families have a higher risk of certain cancers and a higher mortality rate. Yet the VA continues to drag its feet and disagree with the government’s leading scientists. It's unconscionable that less than 10 percent of these sick veterans have gotten disability benefits. If the VA won't listen to the law or to scientists, what's it going to take?" An estimated 750,000 people may have been exposed to probable and known human carcinogens in the base's water supply between the 1950s and 1980s. To date, this is the largest recorded environmental incident on a domestic Department of Defense installation. Senator Burr is the author of the Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act, which was signed into law in 2012. This important law provided veterans and their families health care for certain diseases and conditions that are a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune. The VA has been dragging its feet in recognizing these veterans and families affected by contamination.
05.08.2015	05.08.15 Burr, Bennet Bill to Help Seniors Access Innovative Medical Technologies WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced the Patient Access to Disposable Medical Technology Act of 2015, a bill that would fix current federal policy that keeps Medicare patients from receiving the most-cutting-edge medical technologies. “Seniors shouldn’t have to live with bulky, outdated medical technologies when there are better, modern options available to them,” said Burr. “This relatively simple bill will help seniors get new technologies that will enable them to heal faster and better meet their needs so that they can enjoy a better quality of life.” “Medical innovation has helped make life easier for a lot of Colorado seniors,” Bennet said. “Unfortunately, Medicare hasn’t kept pace to ensure beneficiaries have access to innovative, disposable technologies that are easy to use and often less expensive. This bill makes a simple update to the Medicare program to ensure both disposable and durable technologies are covered.” Medicare’s durable medical equipment (DME) benefit provides seniors with access to certain medical technologies. Unfortunately, the definition of DME is decades old and does not provide the flexibility needed to address recent medical innovations that can be easier to use and less expensive. Since these new products are “disposable,” they cannot be considered “durable” under the current Medicare statute, and are therefore not covered. As a result of this outdated language, in some cases Medicare patients are denied the product best suited to their needs. The Patient Access to Disposable Medical Technology Act of 2015 modernizes Medicare DME policy by requiring Medicare to cover DME that otherwise would not be covered. It provides a clear path for access to DME technologies and encourages continued and future innovation of DME products on behalf of patients. Innovation in health care technologies, such as disposable technologies, will help to advance cost-effective, easy to use products, which will improve the health of patients served by the Medicare program. Read more about the Patient Access to Disposable Medical Technology Act of 2015, here. This legislation is supported by the Paralyzed Veterans of America.
05.06.2015	05.06.15 Burr and Tillis Work to Protect Corolla Wild Horses WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, a bill to provide for the responsible management of the wild-horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. “The beauty of the Corolla horses draws people from across North Carolina and the country to witness these wild animals in their natural habitat,” said Senator Richard Burr. “They are one of our many natural state treasures and I am proud to introduce legislation that will provide for the preservation of these wild-roaming horses that have inhabited North Carolina for hundreds of years. Starting in 2011, I’ve made several efforts to ensure that our local communities have the tools they need to manage these herds without excessive bureaucratic involvement. I hope my colleagues will move swiftly to consider this legislation.” “A cherished part of our state’s history and an admired attraction, thousands of tourists visit North Carolina’s beaches each year to witness the majestic nature of the Corolla horses” said Senator Thom Tillis. “The legislation I’m introducing will take the necessary and proper steps in protecting the health and safety of the wild animals and their habitat, while encouraging continued tourism and economic investment for our local coastal communities.” The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of North Carolina, Currituck County and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to craft a new management plan to care for the wild horses that inhabit the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The plan would allow the herd to grow to the size found by equine scientists to be necessary to maintain genetic viability – between 110 and 130 horses. The Corolla wild horses are indigenous to North Carolina and do not exist anywhere else in the world. Their lineage can be traced back to the arrival of Spanish explorers on the Outer Banks in the 16th century. They are Colonial Spanish mustangs that have survived in the wild for the last four centuries and now roam across Currituck County, North Carolina. This legislation is supported by The Humane Society and American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
04.30.2015	04.30.15 Burr, Tillis, and Rouzer Introduce Bicameral Legislation to Reunite North Carolina County, Arbitrarily Split by Washington Bureaucracy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), along with Representative David Rouzer (R- N.C. 7), introduced legislation to correct a mistake by the Census Bureau and the Office of Management of Budget (OMB) that is adversely affecting eastern North Carolina. Two years ago, OMB issued new delineations for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) that arbitrarily separated Brunswick County from the Wilmington metropolitan area. MSAs are commonly used by businesses to determine the size of new markets and to analyze the workforce. Separating Brunswick County from Wilmington has led to an understatement of the size of the state's economy in the region and hurt economic development. This legislation requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to consider Brunswick County part of the same metropolitan statistical area as Wilmington, North Carolina, as has historically been the case. "In a classic Washington maneuver, this mindless application of bureaucratic rule at the federal level has had an enormous effect on the economy in the area. This is a fact that all North Carolinians know -- Brunswick County is part of the greater Wilmington area," said Burr. "However since the Administration has chosen not to address this mistake, I’ve joined together with other member’s of our state’s delegation to make sure OBM’s guidelines reflect what reality looks like for people in North Carolina." “The Administration made a misguided decision to separate Brunswick County from the Wilmington metropolitan area, which in turn has had a harmful economic impact on the region. I am pleased to join Senator Burr and Congressman Rouzer in correcting this error by ensuring that Brunswick County is considered part of the Wilmington metropolitan area,” said Tillis. “I strongly urge the Administration to correct this mistake,” said Congressman Rouzer. “Separating Brunswick County from the greater Wilmington area hinders economic growth in the Care Fear region. I appreciate the help and support from my colleagues in the North Carolina delegation to address this issue.” You can read the bill text here.
04.28.2015	04.28.15 Burr, Tillis, Grassley Bill Puts Teeth Behind President Obama’s Pledge to Prioritize Removal of Alien Gang Members WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Chuck Grassley of Iowa, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), today introduced legislation prohibiting people with gang ties from receiving deferred deportation and other immigration benefits. The bill also makes gang members deportable and inadmissible for immigration purposes. “The circumstances around this bill are incredibly sad – four are dead following this administration’s inability to enforce their own ill-conceived executive order. If the President can’t take steps to ensure that Americans are safe from criminal gang members, then Congress must take preventative action. I hope that Congress will pass this law to ensure criminals cannot stay in this country, even under this President’s edict,” Burr said. “North Carolina is unfortunately all too familiar with the tragic consequences of the Obama administration’s failure to properly vet and subsequently deport known gang members who are in the country illegally. I am pleased to support commonsense legislation that promotes a zero tolerance policy toward gang members who are non-citizens of the United States, which in turn will remove violent criminals off our streets and help keep our communities safe,” Tillis said. “It’s unfortunate that an act of Congress is required to explicitly prevent the federal government from providing safe haven to criminal gang members, but it’s clear that the current policies and practices are not working. Just today, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said known membership in a criminal gang ‘should constitute as a disqualifier from DACA,’ yet an agency that he oversees has granted DACA to known criminals or criminal gang members at least 282 times. This legislation is designed to improve public safety by blocking gang members from receiving immigration benefits and relief from removal—something President Obama said he would do,” Grassley said. The Grassley-Tillis-Burr bill follows a recent acknowledgement by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that it wrongly granted deferred action for a known gang member who is now charged with four counts of 1st degree murder. Despite admitting that proper protocols were not followed, the agency did not affirm that it has a zero tolerance policy against criminal gang members. At a Senate Judiciary Committee oversight hearing, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson confirmed that the breakdown occurred in the background check process, raising new questions about possible systemic failures by the USCIS to screen DACA applicants, among others. The Grassley-Tillis-Burr bill seeks to improve public safety by clarifying that members of criminal gangs are not eligible for DACA and should be placed in an expedited removal process. Specifically, the bill would: Make current and former members of a criminal gang inadmissible and deportable, Define gang in the same way under current criminal code, and further would allow the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney General or the Secretary of State, to designate criminal gangs, Require mandatory detention of persons arrested by the Department of Homeland Security who are members of a criminal gang, Make criminal gang members ineligible for deferred action, and limits use of parole unless that gang member has provided assistance in a law enforcement matter and is needed in the United States to provide such assistance; and Expedite removal procedures for dangerous criminals, terrorists and gang members. In a 2014 speech, President Obama said his executive order would focus removals on people who have broken laws other than the nation’s immigration policies. “Felons, not families. Criminals, not children. Gang members, not a mom who’s working hard to provide for her kids,” Obama said regarding the administration’s priority for removals.
04.27.2015	04.27.15 Bipartisan Group of Senators Urge Action from VA to Provide Care and Benefits to Veterans Exposed to Toxic Agent Orange Residue WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Ron Wyden (D-OR) wrote to Department of Veterans’ Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald requesting that the department utilize its existing statutory authority to provide care and benefits to veterans exposed to toxic herbicide residue decades ago while they served on aircraft used to spray Agent Orange in Vietnam. “Justice for these veterans is long overdue and you have the authority and the ability to finally right this wrong,” the Senators wrote. "For nearly four years, the VA denied these reservists’ exposure to toxic Agent Orange residue in contaminated C-123s. On January 9, 2015, the Institute of Medicine issued a final report… which ‘emphatically' rejected VA’s assertion as to exposure. As a result, we understand you conceded that this group of veterans was, in fact, exposed to toxic Agent Orange herbicide. However, we also understand a question has arisen about whether some of these reserve airmen satisfy the statutory definition of ‘veteran' for purposes of eligibility for VA benefits. We fundamentally disagree and believe VA’s precedential interpretations of the relevant statute and the policy principle and legal precedent of construing statutes in favor of veterans requires VA to find these reservists eligible for benefits. We ask that you stand by those interpretations, which we outline in this letter, and which show that no additional statutory authority is necessary for you to immediately begin providing care and benefits to the C-123 veterans.” Full text of the Senator’s letter to Secretary McDonald can be viewed here, and below: April 23, 2015 The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, Northwest Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary McDonald, We write to urge you to utilize the Department of Veterans Affairs’ existing statutory authority to quickly begin providing care and benefits to veterans who were exposed to toxic herbicide residue while serving on Fairchild UC-123 Provider (C-123) aircraft after the era when those aircraft were used to transport Agent Orange in Vietnam. Justice for these veterans is long overdue and you have the authority and the ability to finally right this wrong. For nearly four years, the VA denied these reservists’ exposure to toxic Agent Orange residue in contaminated C-123s. On January 9, 2015, the Institute of Medicine issued a final report titled “Post–Vietnam Dioxin Exposure in Agent Orange-Contaminated C-123 Aircraft,” which “emphatically” rejected VA’s assertion as to exposure. As a result, we understand you conceded that this group of veterans was, in fact, exposed to toxic Agent Orange herbicide. However, we also understand a question has arisen about whether some of these reserve airmen satisfy the statutory definition of “veteran” for purposes of eligibility for VA benefits. We fundamentally disagree and believe VA’s precedential interpretations of the relevant statute and the policy principle and legal precedent of construing statutes in favor of veterans requires VA to find these reservists eligible for benefits. We ask that you stand by those interpretations, which we outline in this letter, and which show that no additional statutory authority is necessary for you to immediately begin providing care and benefits to the C-123 veterans. The relevant statute defines “veteran” to include a person whose “active military, naval, or air service” includes any period of “active duty for training or inactive duty training during which the individual concerned was disabled or died from an injury incurred or aggravated in the line of duty.” With regard to the C-123 veterans, VA’s Office of General Counsel (OGC) has taken the position that a reservist (1) must have incurred an injury and (2) his or her injury must manifest itself into a disability during the period of training to qualify an individual for veteran status. This not only contradicts VA’s previous interpretations of the same statutory language, but also leads to absurd results. For instance, a reservist who contracted Ebola while flying patients during training but shows no symptoms until they are in civilian life would not satisfy VA’s newfound interpretation. There are two OGC precedential legal memoranda interpreting the relevant statute such that an injury need not manifest into a disability during training for a reservist to qualify as a “veteran.” In a 2002 opinion, OGC opined on the term “injury” in a case of a veteran who claimed health effects as a result of anthrax inoculations. It concluded that the term injury in section 101(24) would include “…serious adverse effects on body tissue or systems resulting from the introduction of a foreign substance,” without stipulating that the resulting effects manifest during a period of training. In another precedential legal memorandum interpreting the relevant statute, OGC opined on the ability of a former Naval Reservist to seek disability compensation for post-traumatic stress disorder resulting from being raped during inactive duty training. In discussing the issue, OGC noted, “a claimant may be injured during service but the resulting disability may not be apparent until some time after service.” In this case, OGC held, “An individual who suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of a sexual assault that occurred during inactive duty training may be considered disabled by an ‘injury’ for purposes of section 101(2) and (24).” The holdings of both precedential legal memoranda state that the individual claimant “may be considered disabled by an ‘injury’” for purposes of the statute. The analysis and holdings in these two opinions clearly establish that OGC, at least since 2001, has connected a “disability” to an injury without regard for the period during which the disability manifested itself. Had OGC’s policy been otherwise, there would be some evidence in the opinion, some limiting language, some statement that while these claimants could claim injury from training, they still had to establish that their resulting “disability” manifested itself during a period of training. Indeed, in the PTSD opinion, the discussion section notes that the “claimant was discharged from the Naval Reserve under ‘other than honorable conditions,’” a general statutory disqualification for veterans status. If OGC had the foresight to mention this limitation, which was outside the scope of the opinion, then it is reasonable to conclude that an additional qualification for veteran status—when a disability manifests—that is so tied to the term being discussed would likewise have been raised. There is no doubt, and in fact VA concedes, these reserve airmen suffered an injury when exposed to Agent Orange residue. The circumstances of C-123 reservists who were “injured during service” but whose “resulting disability . . . [was] not apparent until some time after service” are identical to both the reservist who received anthrax inoculations and the reservist who was sexually assaulted but whose PTSD did not manifest until after service. Therefore, as these two precedential opinions make clear, a reservist would not be precluded from receipt of benefits merely because a disability has not manifested itself during the same period of training as an injury. We strongly believe these two precedential opinions are correct and consistent with the long-standing principle of construing statutes liberally “for the benefit of those who left private life to serve their country.” Indeed, Congress has directed that VA act in the best interests of claimants whenever possible. Federal regulations make all VA OGC opinions designated as a precedent binding on VA officials and employees in subsequent matters, “unless there has been a material change in a controlling statute or regulation or the opinion has been overruled or modified by a subsequent precedent opinion or judicial decision.” We have not been made aware of any relevant material change in controlling statute or regulation, or any subsequent OGC precedential opinion modifying or withdrawing VA’s earlier liberal interpretation of the statute. As VA’s own interpretations of its statutory authority make clear and the legal principle of liberally construing statutes in favor of veterans requires, the reserve airmen who served aboard C-123 aircraft are entitled to veteran status and the resulting care and benefits necessary to address their health conditions. As Secretary, you have the authority to make the decision that would provide these veterans the care and benefits they have earned. We ask that you do so without delay. We thank you for your attention to this matter and would ask for your response within 14 days. Sincerely, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) Jeff Merkley (D-OR) Michael Bennet (D-CO) Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) Sherrod Brown (D-OH) Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) Ron Wyden (D-OR)
04.24.2015	04.24.15 Burr, Bennet, and Hatch Offer Legislation to Advance Breakthrough Devices for Patients WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced a bipartisan bill, the Advancing Breakthrough Devices for Patients Act, to help bring breakthrough devices to patients in as timely a manner as possible. The Advancing Breakthrough Devices for Patients Act builds on legislation, the Advancing Breakthrough Therapies for Patients Act, that the Senate passed in 2012 from Senators Bennet, Hatch, and Burr. Both the 2012 legislation and the newly introduced bill share similar principles, such as an “all hands-on-deck” approach to devices, while also complementing and enhancing the existing tools, such as priority review, currently in place for devices, with the goal of expediting the development and review of breakthrough products. “America is the world’s most innovative nation, especially in our medical research and development. America's patients deserve access to the latest, most cutting-edge life-saving therapies and devices, and we need to advance these innovative medical products, including breakthrough devices. FDA can be a key partner in this important endeavor,” said Burr. “This legislation ensures that America’s patients are receiving the most innovative technologies in as timely a manner as possible by improving regulatory certainty and applying an all-hands-on-deck approach to the development and review of these devices. I am excited to see this legislation move forward with the help of my two trusted colleagues, Senators Bennet and Hatch.” “Medical innovation is helping drive Colorado’s economy, and it’s improving the lives of patients across the country,” Bennet said. “This bill helps create a system that will spur this type of innovation and ensure patients have access to potentially lifesaving breakthrough medical devices. It complements the highly successful Breakthrough Therapies program we passed with the help of Senators Burr and Hatch by streamlining the review process and ensuring the most effective and safe devices are helping patients.” “Americans ought to benefit from the latest life-saving research and innovative devices developed by the medical community, and this measure ensures FDA can give a helping hand. By streamlining the approval process and improving regulatory certainty, we’re giving more patients a fighting chance to improve their lives," said Hatch. Text of the Advancing Breakthrough Devices for Patients Act can be found here, while a one pager on the legislation can be found here.
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr Statement on the Deaths of Al-Qaida Hostages WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the announcement of the deaths of two hostages held by al-Qaida: “Today’s news from the White House is heartbreaking. This is a sad day for our country and for our Italian allies, and my prayers are with the families of Warren Weinstein and Giovanni Lo Porto. In our grief, though, we should remember that al-Qaida is merciless in their capture and continued detainment of hostages who have selflessly sought to serve others, and they bear the ultimate responsibility for these deaths. Congress will continue to conduct vigorous oversight of our nation’s counterterrorism operations. I firmly believe the dedicated Americans engaged in those efforts take very seriously the need to prevent collateral damage and limit the risk to innocent people, and they, too, share in the grief being felt by the Weinstein and Lo Porto families.”
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Burr Amendment to Close Loophole On Military Sexual Assault Reporting Passes Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) amendment to close a legal loophole that currently enables sex offenders convicted under the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to evade registration with the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR) passed the Senate. The amendment was added to S. 178, Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, and passed by a unanimous vote of 98 to 0. In August, the Department of Defense Inspector General completed an investigation of sexual offender tracking in the military, noting the alarmingly low self-reporting rates and providing a list of suggested solutions for improving tracking. “Too many known sex offenders have successfully gamed the system, which has enabled them to commit heinous crimes again,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Closing this gap standardizes reporting for all sex offenders, regardless of whether they are military or civilian, so that no convicted offender can evade law enforcement and target new victims. I thank my colleagues for coming together to pass a long overdue bill.” Senator Burr Fights to Close Loophole Exploited by Sex Offenders The Military Sex Offender Reporting amendment requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to register offenders directly with the FBI National Crime Information Center (NCIC), the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR), and the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website prior to the offender’s release from a Military Corrections Facility (MCF) or upon conviction if incarceration was not required. Currently, sex offenders convicted in the military justice system must self-report after release, whereas other sex offenders are reported prior to release.
04.21.2015	04.21.15 Burr and Heitkamp’s “Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work” Resolution to Enrich Childhood Development Passes Senate WASHINGTON, D.C.– Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced a resolution designating April 23rd as “Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day” which passed later in the evening. The resolution was designed to create inspiring educational experiences for America’s children and was cosponsored with Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND). Today’s resolution marks the 6th year that Senator Burr has introduced “Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work” as a day of national recognition. “Education and hard work are key drivers of economic prosperity. ‘Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day” taps into those values and provides an opportunity for parents to ensure our children, the future of our nation, are exposed to the opportunities that are available to them after they complete their education,” Senator Burr said. “This program shows our sons and daughters what they are working towards so they know the value and sense of purpose that comes with an education and career goals. As this year’s theme promotes, knowledge and choice strengthens our kids.” “As children, kids see their parents leave for work each day usually without fully understanding what it is that they do. Through the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work program, hundreds of thousands of children have the opportunity to see what jobs and possible career paths are really like from those who they admire most – their parents,” said Heitkamp. “This program plays a critical role in broadening the horizons of youth across the U.S., reinforcing the hard work their parents put in each day to support them, and giving them chances to learn about opportunities available to them both in their future careers and their lives.” Headquartered in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Foundation is one of the largest public awareness campaigns in America with over 39,000,000 participants annually in over 3,000,000 workplaces in every state in the country. This year marks the 22nd anniversary of the Take Our Daughters and Sons To Work program and this year’s theme is #MPOWR Knowledge+Choice=Strength. Visit their website for more information.
04.16.2015	04.16.15 Burr on Committee Markup of Education Bill: Bill to Fix 15 Year Disparity in Funding WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Richard Burr, (R-NC), made the following statement following the Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee markup of Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA): “Today, I was able to fix an inequity in federal education funding that for 15 years has not only shortchanged North Carolina’s teachers and schools, but also the low-income students they serve across our state. Because Congress didn’t have the courage to fix this problem in 2001, funding that was intended to support low-income students and their teachers has gone to more affluent parts of the country, leaving North Carolina’s poorest children without the money they deserve. For North Carolina this means we will have at least $23.5 million more every year – an increase of 47% - that otherwise would have went to wealthier parts of our country. After years of pretending to steer limited federal dollars to our poorest children, we are now actually getting that funding into the communities that need it most.” The committee adopted Senator Burr’s amendment to fully phase out a hold harmless provision within No Child Left Behind that granted federal dollars based on 2001 populations of poor children that ignores recent population shifts to states like North Carolina. The amendment was approved on a vote of 12 to 10 and the legislation passed markup 22-0. Watch Senator Burr in Markup Here
04.16.2015	04.16.15 North Carolina Delegation Introduces Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) introduced The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015, a bipartisan bill that amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 to ensure that the US-70 Corridor in North Carolina would become part of the Interstate system once it is fully upgraded to interstate standards. Tillis’ Senate bill is co-sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) introduced a companion bill in the House. The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 would designate the following as high priority corridors: U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro, North Carolina, to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison, North Carolina. U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner, North Carolina, to the Port at Morehead City, North Carolina. If the corridors become part of the Interstate system, they would result in improved access to military bases in eastern North Carolina and the Port at Morehead City, in addition to easing traffic congestion between Raleigh and eastern North Carolina. The legislation helps advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that promote economic development and enhance interstate commerce. “This legislation will make it possible to refurbish and expand the highway system in North Carolina by identifying these highways as high priority corridors,” said Senator Burr. “Improvements to this infrastructure is critically important to local communities and will make this high transit corridor safer, faster and more modern, ensuring that North Carolina’s economy continues to be one of the most vibrant in the country. I welcome this needed legislation and know that North Carolinians do as well.” “In midst of a sluggish national economy, North Carolina has been a bright spot for growth and innovation, and one of the keys to sustaining that economic success is through continued investment in transportation, infrastructure, and our military,” said Senator Tillis. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act is a true bipartisan effort to support North Carolina’s military installations and complement the state’s 25 year transportation improvement plan, which in turn will generate economic development, provide a boost for local communities and create good-paying jobs.” “Improving transportation in eastern North Carolina is vital to strengthening our state’s economy, improving military readiness and commerce, and reducing traffic congestion,” said Congressman Butterfield, who introduced the House companion bill. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act would connect cities and military bases throughout eastern North Carolina with a major port, the state capital, and the eastern seaboard. This vital legislation will benefit the entire region, and stimulate job growth throughout eastern North Carolina.” The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 is supported by North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory and Secretary of Transportation Tony Tata, the U.S. 70 Corridor Commission, and the Wayne County Transportation Committee. “We appreciate the support of the NC Congressional Delegation for the Governor's 25 Year Vision, specifically this focus on the Highway 70 corridor that will strengthen military connections and enhance freight movement to and from one of our state's vital ports,” said Secretary Tony Tata.
04.15.2015	04.15.15 Burr Student Loan Amendment Approved 97-0 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released a statement following an unanimous vote of 97-0 to include his amendment, based on the Repayment Act, to the budget agreement. Senator King (I-ME) joined Burr as an original cosponsor. “For the second time, my amendment with Senator King has passed with overwhelming bipartisan support,” said Senator Burr. “Americans are tired of seeing their hard-earned tax dollars go to waste in a student loan program that doesn’t adequately serve the interests of those students it is intended to help. The Repay Act is a common-sense step forward to address the deficiencies in our student loan programs.”
04.15.2015	04.15.15 Recent Air Force Report is a Disappointment WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released a statement following yesterday’s release of the United States Air Force’s mandatory “Report on C-130 Force Structure” to Congress. The report outlines the Air Force’s plan to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg. “The recent Air Force report is a complete disappointment. Closing one of the country’s unique training and support elements for our airborne forces and special operators would be a terrible strategic decision. I will continue to work with the North Carolina delegation and my colleagues in Congress to find a solution that preserves the readiness of our critical airborne, rapid deployment capability.”
04.04.2015	04.04.15 Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr Delivers Weekly Republican Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the Weekly Republican Address, Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina discusses the growing threat from cyber criminals and foreign adversaries who are becoming increasingly adept at stealing personal information and intellectual property from American businesses, individuals and the government. As chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Burr outlines legislation his panel recently passed designed to address this problem. “This threat is real, and the increasing number of attacks has a tangible impact on our economy and our national security,” Burr says. “Today, we have a solution that can minimize the threats to your own personal information, keep the economy strong, and help secure the nation.’ The Weekly Republican Address is available in both audio and video format and is embargoed until 6:00 a.m. ET, Saturday, April 4, 2015. The audio of the address is available here, the video will be available here and you may download the address here. A full transcript of the address follows: “Hello, I’m Senator Richard Burr from the great state of North Carolina and I’m honored to chair the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “As I’m sure you’ve noticed over the last year, your personal data has come under increasing threat from a range of cyber attackers, from sophisticated hackers and organized criminals to agents of foreign powers. “It could even be all three. “In the last year, companies like Target, Sony, JP Morgan and Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield have been hacked, leaving millions of customers’ personal and financial information vulnerable. “Maybe even yours. “This means that data about your life and your family could be out in the open. “Cyber attackers, often in other countries, are cracking into the vaults of our companies and our government. “They’re stealing your personal information as well as the intellectual property that makes our economy the most creative and vibrant in the world. “When asked why he robbed banks, Willie Sutton simply said “because that’s where the money is.” “In the same way, cyber-criminals and our foreign adversaries are probing our computer systems and stealing our data. “As a result, your social security number, addresses, date of birth, financial information, family history and more is available to hackers. “Many estimate the direct financial loss and theft of intellectual property costs our economy hundreds of billions of dollars every year. “But it doesn’t have to be this way. “There are steps Congress can take to help both government and the private sector understand these attacks better, and warn each other about them. “That’s just what my colleagues and I have worked to do on the Intelligence Committee. “Over the last several years, we have listened with increasing alarm to the testimony of senior intelligence officials and private sector experts about the growing cybersecurity threat to our nation. “As criminals and other adversaries grow more capable, our nation becomes more vulnerable to cyber-attacks every day. “Our biggest cyber weakness is that our citizens and private entities don’t have accurate or real-time insight into the damage that’s caused by cyber-attacks. “Today, I want to propose a first step in addressing this growing problem. “The bipartisan Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 is sponsored with me by Dianne Feinstein and Senator John McCain. “It creates a cybersecurity information sharing environment that works much like a “neighborhood watch” program -- allowing all participants to get a better understanding of the current cybersecurity threats that may be used against them. “And while we’re ultimately trying to keep your information private, let’s also talk about how this bill is going to ensure that’s the case on the government’s end as well. “Information sharing’s covered by the bill and its 100-percent voluntary. No one is forced to share information in any way. “The bill requires that a company removes private data before sharing anything with the government. No company is allowed to share data unless it is directly related to the cyber-attack itself. “After hundreds of calls with the government, business community, and civil liberties groups, I am confident that Senator Feinstein, Senator McCain, and I have put together a balanced approach that will help your private information stay just that way – private. “I am pleased that the Senate Intelligence Committee agreed, and approved the bill by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 14-1. “This threat is real, and the increasing number of attacks has a tangible impact on our economy and our national security. “Today, we have a solution that can minimize the threats to your own personal information, keep the economy strong, and help secure the nation. “Thank you for listening and God bless.”
04.02.2015	04.02.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr on Iranian Nuclear Agreement WASHINGTON – Today, Senate Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the announcement that P5-plus-one nations have reached a political framework agreement with Iran: “It’s unsettling that this agreement allows for key elements of Iran’s nuclear program to remain in place. Congress needs to weigh in on any decision to soften sanctions on a country whose leader has recently said ‘death to America,’ while simultaneously requesting additional nuclear capability. This deal could lay the foundation for a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region in the world. America must remain vigilant, given Iran’s dubious track record and the fact that the framework requires that no nuclear facilities close.”
03.27.2015	03.27.15 Burr Statement on Passage of Republican Senate Budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released the following statement on last night’s passage of the Republican Senate budget 52-46: “Passage of a budget that balances in ten years is a critical step to getting our country in the right direction without raising taxes on American families. After hours of open debate on the issue, the Senate advanced a serious proposal that puts our country on the path to fiscal responsibility. North Carolinians understand the fundamental reality that you can’t spend more than you take in. It’s time that Washington recognizes this reality as well.”
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Intel Chairman Burr on Saudi Airstrikes: Yemen “May Be Too Far Gone to Prevent Civil War” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released the following statement on the Saudi airstrikes in Yemen: "Clearly, the Saudis and their gulf partners have determined the situation in Yemen presents further danger to regional stability and their own territorial integrity. I hope their intervention helps to restore some sense of security, but I fear Yemen may be too far gone to prevent an all-out civil war.”
03.23.2015	03.23.15 Burr: Five Years of Broken Promises from Obamacare WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released the following statement on the fifth anniversary of Obamacare: “Five years ago Obamacare was enacted and I warned then that this law would be a disaster for our health care system, doctors, and patients. This law has put our country on an unsustainable path of increased costs, government mandates, and broken promises. North Carolinians have seen their health insurance premiums increase, their existing coverage cancelled, and lost access to their doctors. Our nation’s health care system was broken before Obamacare, but because of it, things are worse today than before. Obamacare is a failure and I will continue to advocate to repeal and replace it because I believe there are better alternatives that will fulfill the promise to lower health care costs and empower patients in their health care decisions—what Obamacare fundamentally fails to do.”
03.19.2015	03.19.15 Burr Unveils New Senate Website WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) unveiled his new Senate website, redesigned and updated to better serve North Carolinians. The new website renovation includes information about Senator Burr’s legislative accomplishments, pending legislation, issue areas critical to the Senator, and important press updates in a modern, easier to use format. It also includes information for constituents on how to receive help from Senator Burr’s office -- whether it is with a federal agency, receiving a tour while visiting DC, or with federal grants. The new website is fully integrated with social media, features online form submission and an efficient platform to engage with his offices both in Washington and across North Carolina. Senator Burr invites all North Carolinians to visit his new website: “Serving the people of North Carolina is my number one duty and it is my hope that this new website will keep North Carolinas up-to-date and in contact with me and my staff.”
03.18.2015	03.18.15 Senate Intelligence Committee Introduces Cybersecurity Bill, Addresses Privacy Concerns Washington—The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (S.754), approved Thursday by the Senate Intelligence Committee on a 14-1 vote and introduced yesterday, creates additional incentives to increase sharing of cybersecurity threat information while protecting individual privacy and civil liberties interests and offering liability protection to the private sector. The bill includes a number of significant modifications from previous versions. These changes address a range of concerns, notably those raised by privacy advocates. In an effort to ensure this year’s bill enjoys strong bipartisan support, committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), and ex officio member Senator John McCain reviewed a long list of potential revisions from last year’s bill and adopted many of them. “I’m proud of the Committee’s work and the quality of this bill,” said Burr. “This legislation protects the privacy rights of Americans while also minimizing our vulnerability to cyber-attacks. Information sharing is purely voluntary and companies can only share cyber-threat information and the government may only use shared data for cybersecurity purposes. This legislation provides important liability protection for entities that share cyber threat information as provided in the bill. It further requires that both private and government entities remove personal information prior to sharing. These are protocols which will help minimize the threat to the United States and also ensure that our citizens are less likely to experience the same scale of attacks as we’ve seen in the Sony and Anthem attacks.” “One lesson we learned from previous information sharing bills is that we need strong privacy provisions,” Feinstein said. “There has been misinformation about this bill, so let me be clear: The goal of the bill is for companies and the government to voluntarily share information about cybersecurity threats—NOT personal information—in order to better defend against attacks. This bill includes more than a dozen significant changes from last year’s version. The privacy provisions are substantial and I believe address many of the concerns that had been raised in regard to earlier drafts of the bill.” Text of S.754 can be found here. Clarifying three common misconceptions about the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act: Countermeasures. There is no provision for offensive countermeasures. The bill authorizes “defensive measures” and makes clear this authorization does not extend to actions taken to harm computer networks. The bill also does not include liability protection for the use of defensive measures. DHS portal. The bill provides liability protection for sharing information with the government only when it is shared through the DHS portal, through non-electronic means or for two narrow exceptions concerning communications with an entity’s own regulator or communications about a previously shared cyber threat indicator. The Committee removed liability protection for other forms of sharing information that were included in previous drafts. How information is used. There is no surveillance authority in this bill. Sharing is purely voluntary and companies can only share cyber-threat information. The government cannot use this information for broad foreign intelligence or counterintelligence purposes, or even for counterterrorism purposes in general. It can only use this cyber threat information for terrorism purposes in the event of an imminent terrorist act. The definition of cyber threat indicator was written to prevent the government from receiving information outside of cyber threats. The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act includes a wide range of privacy provisions to safeguard consumer data: All cyber information sharing in this bill is completely voluntary. There is no mandatory sharing whatsoever. The government cannot require or pressure companies to share information with it. This legislation requires companies to take proactive steps to remove any irrelevant privacy information before sharing with other companies or the government. This means that companies that voluntarily decide to share threat information must review such information and remove any personally identifying consumer information not directly related to a cyber-threat before sharing data. The bill carefully restricts the authorization for a company to monitoring to cybersecurity purposes only, and it requires a company to obtain authorization and consent from its customers before it is authorized to monitor their networks. By narrowly defining what constitutes a “cyber threat indicator,” the bill drastically limits the amount of information and the types of information that may be shared under the bill. The bill strictly limits authorization for “defensive measures” to a company’s own networks or those of their consenting customers. The bill does not authorize any offensive or destructive activities. The bill requires the attorney general to develop and publicize mandatory policies, procedures and guidelines for how the government protects and shares data. These must include: o Limits on the length of time government can retain the information it receives. o Penalties for any abuses by federal officials. o Additional privacy protections including notification if any personal information is mistakenly shared. The bill creates a “portal” at the Department of Homeland Security to serve as the primary means for the government to receive cyber threat information. This will centralize and simplify the flow of information and ensure that privacy procedures developed by the attorney general are applied to incoming information. The government may only use voluntarily shared data under this legislation for cybersecurity purposes, to investigate cyber-attacks, to address imminent threats to life and imminent terrorist attacks, and to investigate computer-related crimes and serious, violent felonies. The liability protection contained within the bill does not apply to activities that fail to meet the bill’s privacy requirements or to any grossly negligent or willful misconduct, and companies are required to comply with the bill’s privacy protections before receiving liability protection. The bill establishes multiple levels of oversight to include senior government officials, the inspectors general of federal agencies, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board and Congress.
03.17.2015	03.17.15 Burr and Tillis Statement on Meeting with NC NAACP WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) made the following statement on their meeting with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, North Carolina State Conference (NC NAACP) to discuss the nomination of Loretta Lynch to head the Department of Justice: "Today, we had a thoughtful, thorough conversation with the NC NAACP, during which we discussed United States Attorney Loretta Lynch's nomination to be Attorney General. While we remain concerned with Ms. Lynch's stated desire to lead the Department of Justice in the same manner as Eric Holder and will not be supporting her nomination, we are grateful that the group came to Washington to talk about this issue and exchange ideas."
03.13.2015	03.13.15 Burr and Tillis Mourn the Loss of Military Personnel in Florida Crash WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) made the following statement on the loss of seven U.S. Marines, stationed at Camp Lejeune (N.C.), and four Louisiana National Guard air crewmembers in a helicopter crash at the Florida panhandle: “This tragedy reminds us of the great risks our men and women in uniform take every day. We cannot forget the sacrifices they make on our behalf to defend our freedom. Our prayers are with their families and we will remember their service to our great country.”
03.13.2015	03.13.15 Cybersecurity Bill Passes Intel Committee 14-1 WASHINGTON - The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) today voted the bill, "Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015," through committee on a vote of 14 to 1. This original legislation, which is co-sponsored by SSCI Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), creates additional incentives to increase sharing of cybersecurity threat information while protecting individual privacy and civil liberties interests and offering liability protection to the private sector. "This bipartisan legislation is critical to securing our nation against escalating cyber threats," said Burr. "I'm pleased CISA will advance to the Senate floor where it will enjoy support from both sides of the aisle. The bill we passed today is overdue and will enable our agencies and institutions to share information about cyber threats while also providing strong privacy protection for our citizens. With risks are growing every day, we are finally better prepared to combat cyber attackers with this bill. " "The bill approved today by the Intelligence Committee on a strong bipartisan vote is a critical step to confront one of the most dire national and economic threats we face: cyber-attacks," said Feinstein. "In just the last year, hundreds of millions of Americans have had their data compromised, a number of major American companies have been attacked, intellectual property has been stolen, and there have even been attempts to hack our critical infrastructure. This bill would help defend against cyber-attacks by allowing purely voluntary information sharing-limited to specific information about cyber threats-to better help the private sector and government understand and respond to these threats. The robust privacy requirements and liability protection make this a balanced bill, and I hope the Senate acts on it quickly." The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015: Directs increased sharing of classified and unclassified information about cyber threats with the private sector, including declassification of intelligence as appropriate. Authorizes private entities to monitor their networks or those of their consenting customers for cybersecurity purposes. Companies are authorized to share cyber threat indicators or defensive measures with each other or the government. Requires the establishment of a capability (sometimes referred to as a "portal") at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as the primary government capability to quickly accept cyber threat indicators and defensive measures through electronic means. Provides liability protection for companies' appropriate use of additional cybersecurity authorities. The monitoring of networks for cybersecurity threats is protected from liability, along with sharing information about cyber threats between companies consistent with the bill's requirements. Requires reports on implementation and privacy impacts by agency heads, Inspectors General, and the Privacy Civil Liberties Oversight Board to ensure that cyber threat information is properly received, handled, and shared by the government. Privacy protections include: Does not require any private sector entity to share cyber threat information. Sharing is strictly voluntary. Narrowly defines the term "cyber threat indicator" to limit the amount of information that may be shared under the Act. Limits the use of cyber threat indicators to specific purposes, including the prevention of cybersecurity threats and serious crimes. Requires the removal of personal information prior to the sharing of cyber threat indicators.
03.11.2015	03.11.15 Senate Intel Committee to Consider Cybersecurity Bill Tomorrow Bipartisan legislation to ensure cybersecurity information sharing includes numerous privacy protections for Americans WASHINGTON – The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) will hold a closed business meeting to mark up the bill, “Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015,” on Thursday, March 12th at 2:30 p.m. This original legislation, which is co-sponsored by SSCI Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC) and Vice Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), creates additional incentives to increase sharing of cybersecurity threat information while protecting individual privacy and civil liberties interests and offering liability protection to the private sector. “Recent cyberattacks against Sony, Anthem, and others have shown that our cyber adversaries consider nothing off limits,” said Burr. “This bill is the result of extensive effort across multiple Congresses, including last year’s legislative push that nearly crossed the finish line. Earlier this year, the Vice Chair and I revisited last year’s legislation, hoping to examine ways to improve that already good product, and to incorporate additional input from the business sector, privacy and civil liberties advocates, and the Administration. This current bill is critically important both for our agencies that keep the country safe, and the institutions that hold millions of Americans’ personal information.” “I’m pleased that Chairman Burr and I were able to reach an agreement on a cybersecurity information-sharing bill that will increase cybersecurity in the private sector and government while protecting privacy interests,” said Feinstein. “This legislation, which we will mark up tomorrow, represents compromises on both sides following feedback from the executive branch, private sector and privacy advocates. This bill is an important step toward increasing our national and economic security, and I hope that after the committee votes on the bill, Senate leaders will quickly bring it before the full Senate for debate.” Key bill provisions of the Cyber Information Sharing Act of 2015 include: * Provides for increased, and purely voluntary, cybersecurity information sharing for companies to share with each other and the federal government. * Includes numerous privacy protections to prevent over-sharing or government misuse of shared information. * Requires the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Homeland Security, Secretary of Defense, and the Attorney General to develop procedures for increasing the sharing of classified and unclassified cyber threat information to the private sector, consistent with the protection of sources and methods. Privacy protections include: * Does not require any private sector entity to share cyber threat information. Sharing is strictly voluntary. * Narrowly defines the term “cyber threat indicator” to limit the amount of information that may be shared under the Act. * Restricts government use of voluntarily shared information to cybersecurity and serious crimes. * Requires the removal of personal information prior to the sharing of cyber threat indicators. As in the 113th Congress, this markup will be closed. The bill language will be available after amendments are incorporated post mark up.
03.10.2015	03.10.15 Burr and Manchin Introduce Bill to Reduce Veteran Homelessness WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the Homeless Veterans Prevention Act of 2015. This legislation would build on existing homeless veterans programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by investing in established programs that are proven to be effective and removing any residual barriers to housing for veterans. “It is heartbreaking that we still have almost 50,000 homeless veterans in this country,” said Senator Burr. “This legislation will help us reduce the number of homeless veterans until all of our nation’s heroes have a place to call home. In particular, many women have been unable to fully participate in existing programs because their children were not allowed to live in the transitional housing. The Homeless Veterans Prevention Act bill addresses this shortcoming and increases the availability of housing for homeless veterans.” “I don’t know how we, as a country, can accept that nearly 50,000 Americans who have served our country will be homeless tonight,” Senator Manchin said. “We must do all that we can to help those veterans and their families – and this bill will go a long way to assist with their transition into permanent housing.” The bill has support from National Alliance to End Homelessness and the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. Key Points for the Homeless Veterans Prevention Act of 2015: Keep veteran families together by allowing VA to house the children of homeless veterans in transitional housing programs. Incentivizes grantees to avoid disruptions that arise when veterans complete transitional housing programs and move on to permanent housing. Allows VA to partner with public and private entities to increase the availability of legal services for homeless veterans. Extends and increases the amount of money available for supportive service to very low-income veteran families in permanent housing.
03.10.2015	03.10.15 Burr Condemns ATF Framework Limiting Sporting Ammo WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) joined the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and 51 colleagues in expressing concern with a new proposal that would severely limit access to rifle ammunition primarily used for sporting purposes. This class of ammunition is protected from prohibition under a 1986 Law Enforcement Officer Protection Act exemption. The framework, proposed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), would set arbitrary guidelines for determining whether certain ammunition meets the 1986 law’s “sporting purposes” exemption. As a result, access to rifle ammunition long considered to be primarily used for activities such as target shooting and hunting could be limited. In a letter to ATF Director Todd Jones, the senators charge that the new framework defies the intent of Congress when it passed the 1986 law. They also question ATF’s authority to establish such a framework and express concern about its impact on Second Amendment rights guaranteed in the Constitution. “Second Amendment rights require not only access to firearms but to bullets. If law-abiding gun owners cannot obtain rifle ammunition, or face substantial difficulty in finding ammunition available and at reasonable prices because government entities are banning such ammunition, then the Second Amendment is at risk,” the senators wrote. Senators joining Grassley and Burr on the letter include Mike Rounds (R-S.D.); John Thune (R-S.D.); Cory Gardner (R-Colo.); Tom Cotton (R-Ark.); John Hoeven (R-N.D.); Joni Ernst (R-Iowa); David Vitter (R-La); Michael Crapo (R-Idaho); Jerry Moran (R-Kan.); David Perdue (R-Ga.); James Risch (R-Idaho); John Isakson (R-Ga.); Steve Daines (R-Mont.); Dean Heller (R-Nev.); Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.); Roy Blunt (R-Mo.); Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.); Bill Cassidy (R-La.); John Boozman (R-Ark.); Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.); Ted Cruz (R-Texas); Thom Tillis (R-N.C.); Orrin Hatch (R-Utah); Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.); James Lankford (R-Okla.); Richard Shelby (R-Ala.); Deb Fischer (R-Neb.); Thad Cochran (R-Miss.); Shelley Capito (R-W. Va.); Pat Roberts (R-Kan.); Pat Toomey (R-Pa.); Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska); John Cornyn (R-Texas); Ron Johnson (R-Wis.); Michael Lee (R-Utah); John Barrasso (R-Wyo.); Marco Rubio (R- Fla.); Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.); Dan Coats (R-Ind.); Bob Corker (R-Tenn.); Tim Scott (R-S.C.); Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.); Ben Sasse (R-Neb.); Roger Wicker (R-Miss.); Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.); Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.); Rand Paul (R-Ky.); John McCain (R-Ariz.); Rob Portman (R-Ohio); and Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska). A signed copy of the letter is available here. Text of the letter is below. March 9, 2015 The Honorable B. Todd Jones Director Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives 99 New York Avenue, N.E. Washington, DC 20226 Dear Director Jones: We take issue with the “ATF Framework for Determining Whether Certain Projectiles are ‘Primarily Intended for Sporting Purposes’ Within the Meaning of 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(17)(C),” to which ATF sought comment on February 13, 2015. Congress in 1986 passed the Law Enforcement Officers Protection Act (LEOPA). It did so to protect law enforcement officers from a particular category of bullets – those that could be fired from handguns and pierce police officers’ body armor. Because rifle ammunition could also pass through police body armor, and some rifle ammunition could be fired from handguns, LEOPA protected common rifle ammunition by exempting from its scope projectiles “which the Attorney General finds [are] primarily intended to be used for sporting purposes.” The “Framework” does not follow LEOPA. Without any support, it purports to create an “objective” test never before applied for delineating which projectiles are “primarily intended to be used for sporting purposes.” ATF will exempt a “.22 caliber projectile … if the projectile weighs 40 grains or less AND is loaded into a rimfire cartridge,” and will exempt other forms of ammunition if they are “loaded into a cartridge for which the only handgun that is readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade is a single shot handgun.” But even if a particular projectile satisfies these novel tests, ATF proposes to “retain[] the discretion to deny any application for a ‘sporting purposes’ exemption if substantial evidence exists that the ammunition is not primarily intended for such purposes.” ATF would determine what amounts to “substantial evidence” and whether the “ammunition is not primarily intended for [sporting] purposes.” The statute was not enacted to give authority to ATF to do either. In 1986, the sponsors of the legislation were emphatic in stating that ammunition commonly used in rifles for target practice or hunting was not of the type of ammunition that the bill would ban. ATF seems to have decided to ban ammunition types that the law did not ban, then developed from whole cloth an “objective” test to supposedly provide it with the ability to ban the ammunition types it already had selected for prohibition. Earlier, ATF recognized the proper scope of LEOPA. ATF has always granted an exemption to the M855 5.56 x 45mm cartridge from the LEOPA ban because it recognized that this ammunition fell squarely within the “sporting purposes” test. It did so because factually, as well as legally under the legislative language, such cartridges were and are widely used by millions of law-abiding gun owners for “sporting purposes.” These cartridges are prevalent for one of the most commonly possessed rifles, the AR-15. Congress did not, and did not intend to, ban this form of ammunition. ATF’s proposed restriction of the M855 cartridge is particularly serious in light of efforts to ban other forms of ammunition. The standards in the “Framework” would make use of ammunition containing materials other than lead more difficult. At the same time, various efforts to ban lead ammunition are proceeding apace. Second Amendment rights require not only access to firearms but to bullets. If law-abiding gun owners cannot obtain rifle ammunition, or face substantial difficulty in finding ammunition available and at reasonable prices because government entities are banning such ammunition, then the Second Amendment is at risk. An outright ban is an even more serious threat to the Second Amendment than the threat to the First Amendment’s protection of free press created by a tax imposed only on voluminous purchases of paper and ink. See Minneapolis Star Tribune Co. v. Commissioner, 460 U.S. 575 (1983). It is not clear where ATF believes it has obtained the authority to issue general standards interpreting the meaning of “sporting purposes” under LEOPA as opposed to exempting or not exempting particular cartridges. Nevertheless, no federal statute, including LEOPA, interferes with the ability of law-abiding citizens to obtain ammunition commonly used for such legitimate purposes as target shooting, hunting, and shooting competitions. Nor could any such statute do so consistent with the Second Amendment. The “Framework” should not be adopted, and ATF should not propose in the future to ban any widely used form of ammunition used by law-abiding citizens for lawful purposes. Sincerely, ,
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Senate Intel Chairman Burr: “Unfortunate that Netanyahu had to Ask” for US Support WASHINGTON - Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI), made the following statement following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's address to the United States Congress: "Today, Prime Minister Netanyahu asked for America's unwavering support for Israel, our friend and ally in a tumultuous region. It's unfortunate the Prime Minister even had to ask. Over the last six years, I have watched this Administration's foreign policy failures in the Middle East pile up and erode our relationship with Israel. I will continue to support the United States' partnership and am thankful for the Prime Minister's address to Congress today."
03.02.2015	03.02.15 Analysis Shows Patient CARE Act Better For Patients And Taxpayers Than Obamacare Independent Economic Analysis Finds Plan Decrease Premiums, Lowers Deficit, and Increases Access To Providers =WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) issued the following statement regarding the release of the independent Center for Health and Economy analysis of the Patient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility, and Empowerment (CARE) Act. The Center for Health and Economy found that the Patient CARE Act would lower premiums, improve access to providers, increase medical productivity, and reduce the nation’s deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars. “Better access, higher quality, and more affordability – these are the central tenets that any health care reform should strive for, and they are precisely what the Patient CARE Act would achieve. Americans continue to grapple with the messy fallout and broken promises of the president’s health care law – including higher costs, inaccurate tax forms, reduced choices, and increased difficulty finding a doctor. There is a better way. This analysis confirms that empowering patients, not Washington, leads to a stronger, more accountable and responsive health care system,” said Burr, Hatch, and Upton. “We look forward to continuing to work with our colleagues on advancing health reforms that will protect Americans who are suffering from Obamacare’s costly consequences as we move toward a system that puts health care back in the hands of patients, families, and their doctors, not Washington.” Burr, Hatch, and Upton recently unveiled the Patient CARE Act, a legislative plan that repeals Obamacare and replaces it with common-sense, patient-focused reforms that reduce health care costs and increase access to affordable, high-quality care. In contrast with Obamacare and its government-centered mandates and regulations, this bicameral proposal empowers the American people to make the best health care choices for themselves and their families. The leaders will continue to work with their Senate and House colleagues, states, and experts in the health care community to improve this blueprint and help Americans suffering under Obamcare. The Center for Health and Economy (H&E) found that the Patient CARE Act would: · Reduce Premiums. H&E “estimates that the Patient CARE Act will lead to lower health insurance premiums in all plan categories for both single and family coverage.” In fact, H&E estimates the proposal would decrease average insurance premiums in some coverage categories by up to 17 percent. · Increase Access to Providers. According to H&E, the Patient CARE Act “is projected to result in greater patient access to providers...access will increase by 5 percent for the insured population.” · Expand Private Coverage. H&E found that the Patient CARE Act would result in 10 million more Americans receiving private coverage in the individual market than under current law. · Reduce the Deficit. H&E determined that the Patient CARE Act “will decrease the federal deficit by $534 billion between 2016 and 2025.” · Increase Medical Productivity. H&E’s analysis found that the Patient CARE Act “is expected to lead to greater productivity than under current law.” Learn more about the Patient CARE Act HERE. Read a two-page summary of the Patient CARE Act HERE.
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Burr Unveils Legislation To Ease Red Tape On Colleges WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) late yesterday introduced his"Supporting Academic Freedom through Regulatory Relief Act", a bill that eases the recent regulations placed on colleges and universities over the last six years. Traditionally, states and independent accrediting bodies handled these issues but the recent wave of new regulations have imposed federal standards that unnecessarily restrict choice and increase costs. This month, an independent report found that the cost of Washington's overreach in higher education was high, costing families more every year to educate their children. "Our colleges and universities are struggling under new regulations imposed by this administration," said Senator Burr. "Bureaucrats at the Department of Education have become addicted to micromanaging nearly every aspect of campus life, wading into issues Congress never authorized and most commonsense Americans don't support. Worse, these reporting requirements ultimately are passed down to students and parents in the form of higher tuition, as colleges and universities become compliance-driven organizations, rather than institutions of learning. My legislation rolls back much of this burdensome red tape." The legislation has the support of Sens. Grassley, Isakson, Tillis, Cotton, Hatch, Alexander, Roberts, Fischer, Flake, Scott, Cassidy, Portman, Cornyn, Rubio, Enzi and Murkowski. The "Supporting Academic Freedom through Regulatory Relief Act" has the support of at least 25 advocacy organizations. Recently, the American Council on Education (ACE) released the"Recalibrating Regulation of Colleges and Universities" report detailing the extent of regulatory burden Washington places on colleges and universities. This report, which included the input of nearly every sector of higher education, was requested by Chairman Alexander and Senators Mikulski, Burr, and Bennet a little over a year ago. The report makes clear the extent of Washington's overreach on campuses and was used to inform the "Supporting Academic Freedom through Regulatory Relief Act".
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Burr Statement on Obama's Veto of Keystone XL WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the President’s veto of the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. The Keystone Bill passed the Senate 62 to 36 and passed the House 266 to 153. “The President has vetoed Congress’s first jobs bill of 2015, Keystone XL. The legislation is a bipartisan, commonsense measure that garnered support with the American people and was granted a favorable ruling by the President’s State Department.” “It's clear from the President's first veto that he has no intention on working with Congress to create jobs here."
02.23.2015	02.23.15 Upton, Hatch, and Burr Seek Ideas from Governors on Patient CARE Act In a Letter to Governors, Leaders Seek to Help States Improve Health Care Options for Americans WASHINGTON,DC-Senator Richard Burr (R-NC),House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT) today sent a letter to the nation's governors seeking feedback on their recently released Patient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility, and Empowerment (CARE) Act. The Patient CARE Act is a patient-focused legislative blueprint that devolves power from Washington to empower families, small businesses, and states. "We believe health care reform will be most successful when accomplished in a transparent and inclusive manner, which is why we want to hear directly from the states," said Burr, Hatch, and Upton. The leaders write, "Whether in Medicaid or in the commercial health insurance market, we believe states have a key role to play in expanding access to coverage and helping to lower costs to consumers. The Patient CARE Act would return authority to regulate commercial health insurance to the states, where it best belongs. We would also give states new tools and authorities to help their citizens and manage their costs. Key among our reforms are policies to modernize Medicaid, increase state flexibility and control, and prioritize care for the most vulnerable. Our goal is to recover the proper balance between the federal and state governments in Medicaid and commercial health insurance." Read the complete letter online HERE Learn more about the Patient CARE Act online HERE
02.18.2015	02.18.15 Senator Burr Statement On The Passing Of Former Rep. Cass Ballenger WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement on the passing of former Representative Cass Ballenger (R-NC): "It was my honor to count Cass as a mentor, friend and colleague,” said Senator Burr. “Cass was wholly dedicated to serving the people of North Carolina and I often look to the example he set in his sincere attention to his constituents. As a lawmaker, he was knowledgeable and careful, insisting on understanding all angles of an issue before making a plan, as evidenced in his transformation of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. My prayers are with his family today. He was a great representative and an even better man." Rep. Ballenger served North Carolina’s 10th Congressional district from 1986-2005. Prior to his time in the U.S. House of Representatives, he was a member of North Carolina State Senate and the North Carolina State House.
02.13.2015	02.13.15 Senate Passes Resolution Celebrating The Life Of North Carolina Legend, Dean Smith WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the U.S. Senate passed Senate Resolution (S. Res 79), honoring the life of Dean Smith, the legendary coach of the University of North Carolina’s basketball team. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the resolution this week following his passing on Sunday. Smith led the UNC Chapel Hill basketball team to multiple national championships and remained a beloved leader in North Carolina after his retirement. “Coach Smith was a leader on and off the court,” said Senator Burr. “A fantastic coach, he will be remembered for his success at the helm of the Tar Heels team, and his memory will continue to live on through the hundreds of students he encouraged to succeed in the classroom. I’m happy for the opportunity to further honor his life with this resolution.” “Few figures in North Carolina have had as profound an impact on our state as Coach Dean Smith, and this resolution recognizes his tremendous life and legacy,” said Senator Tillis. “Coach Smith is universally regarded as one of the greatest basketball coaches of all-time, and his role as a leader, teacher, and mentor will never be forgotten.” Senator Burr’s comments for the record are available here.
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Bipartisan group Of Senators Announces Report On Simplifying Federal Regulations For America's 6,000 Colleges And Universities WASHINGTON, D.C., Feb. 12 – A bipartisan group of senators on the Senate education committee, Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), and Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), today announced a report detailing ways Congress and the Department of Education could streamline and reduce federal regulations for America’s 6,000 colleges and universities, while protecting students and taxpayers. Chairman Alexander also announced a hearing to discuss the findings of the report on February 24. Click HERE to access the report, supported by the American Council on Education. In November 2013, these senators formed the Task Force on Government Regulation of Higher Education, a group of 16 college and university presidents and higher education experts co-chaired by Vanderbilt University Chancellor Nicholas S. Zeppos and University System of Maryland Chancellor William Kirwan, to conduct a comprehensive, nonpartisan review of the U.S. Department of Education’s regulations and the reporting requirements on colleges and universities. The task force’s objective was to provide specific recommendations on reducing, eliminating or streamlining duplicative, costly or confusing regulations and reporting requirements to Congress and the administration in anticipation of the ninth reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. “The stack of federal regulations on colleges and universities today, which stretches as tall as I am, is simply the piling up of well-intentioned laws and regulations, done without anyone first weeding the garden,” said Senate education committee Chairman Alexander. “This report will guide our efforts to weed the garden and allow colleges to spend more of their time and money educating students, instead of filling out mountains of paperwork. I thank the members of the task force, Chancellors Zeppos and Kirwan, and the American Council on Education for their hard work on this report—and I look forward to discussing their findings in our committee.” “When I helped convene this Task Force, I had one goal in mind: to support our institutions of higher education – help them be them as they work to educate our next generation,” Senator Mikulski said. “I have heard many concerns from these institutions regarding federal requirements that, while well-intentioned, often end up being duplicative and burdensome. I agree that we need to regulate, not strangulate. I thank the Co-Chairs of the Task Force, Chancellors Kirwan and Zeppos, for leading such a monumental effort.” “Over a year ago when this task force began its work, I noted the ‘tidal wave’ of regulations facing institutions of higher education and the resulting higher tuition costs to students,” said Senator Burr. “Not only has this report confirmed, with specificity, the extent of these problems, it shows that every day the situation worsens as a result of the Department of Education’s never-ending addiction to regulating colleges and universities. My hope is Congress can put the report’s recommendations to action as soon as possible. I also want to thank the members of the task force, but am especially appreciative of President Tom Ross and Chancellor Harold Martin for accepting my invitation to advocate for North Carolina’s views on the task force.” “Our colleges and universities are the gateways to success in the 21st century economy for this generation and the next,” Senator Bennet said. “We look forward to reading more about the task force's ideas to help these institutions focus more on improving the quality of education and less on regulations. This report will be part of the process for reauthorizing the Higher Education Act. We’re extremely grateful for the hard work of the task force, particularly Bruce Benson of the University of Colorado and Senator Bill Armstrong of Colorado Christian University for bringing a Colorado perspective to the panel.” "I appreciate the senators’ commitment to finding solutions to the challenges America’s colleges and universities face due to the sharp increase in the amount and complexity of government regulation,” Vanderbilt University Chancellor Nicholas S. Zeppos said. "As higher education administrators continue to work to keep costs down, increase accessibility, and make college more affordable, this task force represents a valuable opportunity to recommend more efficient regulations that will benefit students and families while we maintain responsible stewardship of taxpayer dollars. It has been a privilege to engage with Chancellor Kirwan and my higher education colleagues in this important endeavor." “It has been an honor to serve with Chancellor Zeppos as co-chair of the Task Force on Federal Regulation of Higher Education and I applaud the hard work of all Task Force members in addressing this issue,” said Chancellor William Kirwan. “While the Task Force recognizes the importance of federal oversight in our accountability to taxpayers, we all stand to better serve our students by making certain regulations less cumbersome. We look forward to the feedback from members of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions, and I personally extend my gratitude to Senators Mikulski, Alexander, Bennett and Burr for their foresight and commitment to ensure high quality, affordable, and accessible higher education opportunities for our nations’ citizens." “I appreciate the opportunity to have served on the Task Force, and want to express my thanks to the bipartisan group of senators who recognized the need to create it and to my fellow Task Force members for their hard work, especially our co-chairs, Chancellors William E. Kirwan of the University System of Maryland and Nicholas S. Zeppos of Vanderbilt University,” said American Council on Education President Molly Corbett Broad. “I look forward to the report’s findings and recommendations being explored in detail during the upcoming Senate hearing.” In addition to Zeppos, Kirwan and Broad, Task Force members include: Former Senator Bill Armstrong, president of Colorado Christian University; Bruce Benson, president of University of Colorado; Thomas Chema, president emeritus of Hiram College; Margaret Drugovich, president of Hartwick College; Dana Hoyt, president of Sam Houston State University; Brice Harris, chancellor of California Community College System; Jonathan Kaplan, CEO of Laureate Online Education; Neil Kerwin, president of American University; J. Michael Locke, former CEO of Rasmussen College; Harold Martin, chancellor of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University; Claude Pressnell, president of Tennessee Independent Colleges and Universities Association; Tom Ross, president of University of North Carolina; and Bob Templin, president of Northern Virginia Community College.
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Veteran's Assistance Bill, "Clay Hunt SAV Act," Becomes Law WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Presidential signing of H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, into law. “Our veterans have made countless sacrifices on behalf of this country and they deserve better. The Clay Hunt SAV Act will provide much-needed resources to combat the epidemic of veteran suicide,” said Senator Burr. “I could not be more pleased to see my legislation signed into law today and I will continue to support efforts to provide care for our nation’s heroes." The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act passed the Senate unanimously earlier in February. Specifically, the bill provides for better access to information on mental health by improving the exchange of training, best practices, and other resources among the VA and non-profit mental health organizations to enhance collaboration of suicide prevention efforts, as well as including a new website that offers veterans information on mental health care services. It creates a pilot program of loan repayment for VA psychiatrists. The Clay Hunt SAV Act also creates a community outreach pilot program to help veterans transition from active duty service and extends the ability for certain combat veterans to enroll in the Veterans Health Administration for one year. Background: The legislation is named for Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who committed suicide in March 2011 at the age of 28. Clay enlisted in the Marine Corps in May 2005 and deployed to Anbar Province, near Fallujah, in January 2007. He was shot in the wrist by a sniper’s bullet that barely missed his head, earning him a Purple Heart. Clay recuperated at Twenty Nine Palms, Calif., and then graduated from Marine Corps Scout Sniper School in March 2008. He redeployed to southern Afghanistan a few weeks later. His unit returned in late October 2008 and he was honorably discharged from the Marines in April 2009. After returning home, Clay struggled with post-traumatic stress disorder for many years as he was provided care at his local VA hospital before taking his own life.
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Finance Committee Approves Bennet-Burr Bill To Level Playing Field For LNG Bill Would Equalize Tax Treatment To Put Competing Fuels On Fair Footing WASHINGTON, DC - The Senate Finance Committee today approved a bipartisan bill introduced by U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) to put liquefied natural gas (LNG) on equal footing with diesel fuel under the federal highway excise tax. The bill would allow LNG to compete fairly with diesel by taxing LNG on energy output rather than per gallon. Congress shouldn't be in the business of picking winners and losers - this legislation would ensure that natural gas is on the same playing field as other energy resources," said Burr."Natural gas represents a way to boost our nation's energy security and help free us from our over-reliance on foreign oil." "We have an opportunity to help grow this market and increase the use of natural gas as a transportation fuel," Bennet said. "We've watched our domestic energy markets undergo a drastic change over the last decade, and this bill will help harness that momentum. It will also encourage more consumers and business owners to use LNG-powered vehicles that can help keep our air cleaner. We'll continue to work with our colleagues to get this passed by the full Senate." The current tax system for LNG can result in thousands of dollars of additional cost for companies choosing to use the fuel. For example, if a diesel truck travels 100,000 miles at 5 miles per gallon it consumes 20,000 gallons of diesel fuel. However, an identical LNG truck would require 34,000 gallons of LNG to travel the same distance. The current tax system would result in the LNG truck operator paying an additional $3,402 in taxes because of the 14,000 gallons more of fuel to travel the same distance. The fuel has attracted the attention of fleet operators due to its low cost at the pump and reduced environmental impact. LNG produces significantly lower levels of toxic emissions than diesel fuel, including lower levels of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide. Using LNG instead of diesel fuel also reduces pollution from so-called "black carbon," also known as soot. Black carbon is a major contributor to climate change, second only to carbon dioxide in the amount of heat it traps in the atmosphere once emitted. In addition to the environmental benefits of the fuel, LNG is cheaper at the pump than diesel but is effectively taxed at a higher rate. Currently, the excise tax rate for both LNG and Diesel Fuel is set at 24.3 cents per gallon, however LNG produces less energy per gallon than diesel fuel. It takes about 1.7 gallons of LNG to equal the energy in 1 gallon of diesel fuel, resulting in LNG being taxed at 170% of the rate of diesel fuel on an energy equivalent basis. Taxing LNG based on energy output versus volume removes a disincentive to use the fuel. A 2013 study commissioned by the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council shows that increased international demand for LNG has had a positive impact on the nation's economy, particularly in Colorado. Colorado's natural gas production has risen by almost 45 percent resulting in large numbers of job growth particularly for small and midsize businesses in the state.
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Burr Statement On The Deaths Of Three In Chapel Hill WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after news of three deaths in Chapel Hill, NC yesterday evening: “Last night’s tragic events have left three dead and our community in mourning. My prayers are with their families. I have faith that law enforcement will assemble the facts and ensure that justice is carried out on behalf of those murdered.”
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Veterans Bill Heads To The President's Desk, McConnell Praises Burr's Leadership WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) attended the signing of H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, in an enrollment ceremony with House Speaker John Boehner, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Clay Hunt's parents, Susan and Richard Selke. This bipartisan legislation addresses the epidemic of veteran suicide, expanding veterans' access to critical mental health care and resources. "Our veterans deserve the best care, and it's all too frequent that our nation's heroes are falling through the gaps," said Senator Burr. "Sadly, Clay Hunt was one of those brave Americans. Congress has come together to give veterans the access to the support they need after working to secure our freedoms. We must do a better job for our veterans." Senate Majority Leader McConnell mentioned the hard work of Senator Burr to pass this important bill, "He worked diligently to make a day like today possible." Watch the bill signing here. Taking part in today's ceremony were Clay Hunt's parents, Susan and Richard Selke, as well as members of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). Also in attendance were a number of House and Senate leaders, including: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY)Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), chairman of the Senate Finance CommitteeSen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA), chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs CommitteeSen. John McCain (R-AZ), chairman of the Senate Armed Services CommitteeSen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT)House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD)Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL), chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs CommitteeRep. Dan Benishek (R-MI)Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN)
02.10.2015	02.10.15 As Trade Talks Continue, Bipartisan Group of Senators Unveils Bill to Stand Up For American Jobs by Addressing Currency Manipulation Sens. Burr, Brown, Sessions, Schumer, Graham, and Stabenow, Introduce The Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act. Addressing Currency Manipulation Could Create up to Nearly Six Million Jobs by Leveling the Playing Field for American Manufacturers and Workers WASHINGTON, D.C. — As Congress prepares to review the Administration’s trade agenda, a bipartisan group of senators unveiled legislation to stand up for American jobs and American manufacturers by holding accountable countries – like China – that cheat trade law by manipulating their currency. U.S. Sens. Richard Burr (R-NC), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), outlined The Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act,legislation that would reform and enhance oversight of currency exchange rates. “With more U.S. jobs at stake every year, we must stand up to protect Americans from unfair trade practices by countries who fight dirty via currency manipulation,” Burr said. “This legislation to hold those countries accountable is long overdue." “Instead of addressing our growing trade deficit, we’re pursuing trade deals with countries that manipulate their currency,” Brown said. “Foreign companies who don’t play by the rules are actively trying to undermine the effectiveness of our trade laws. It’s time to level the playing field for American manufacturers and workers – the most competitive in the world. This bipartisan bill would create jobs and ensure American business can compete – at no cost to taxpayers.” “America has always been a trading nation, but a trade relationship is like a contract: both parties must agree and play by the same set of rules,” Sessions said. “When one of our trading partners harms American workers by skirting the rules, we have an obligation to respond in their defense. I hope the Senate will again bring up this commonsense legislation for a vote, and I’m confident it will again pass with strong bipartisan support.” “For far too long, China, Japan and other countries have rigged the rules of the game and millions of American workers have lost their jobs,” Schumer said. “While these countries have manipulated their currency, American manufacturing has been hollowed out – it’s time to put those days in the rear view mirror. If we are going to even consider passing a free trade agreement with Asian countries, Congress must pass and the President must sign a tough currency bill." “It is universally accepted that China and other major countries intentionally manipulate their currency to create an advantage for themselves in the marketplace” Graham said. “Manufacturing jobs in South Carolina and across the country are being destroyed because the Chinese and others continue to defy the rules of international trade.” “When countries like China and Japan cheat, American workers and manufacturers lose,”Stabenow said. “It’s time to stop unfair trade practices like currency manipulation and hold countries accountable when they don’t play by the rules.” The Peterson Institute estimates that that interventions in currency markets by foreign governments have cost U.S. workers as many as five million jobs over the last decade by making it more difficult for U.S. exporters to compete in other countries and by subsidizing their exports. The Economic Policy Institute further found that ending currency manipulation could reduce the U.S. trade deficit by as much as $500 billion within three years, increase GDP by as much as $720 billion, and create as many as 5.8 million American jobs—all while reducing the federal budget deficit by as much as $266 billion. The Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act would use U.S. trade law to counter the economic harm to U.S. manufacturers caused by currency manipulation, and provide consequences for countries that fail to adopt appropriate policies to eliminate currency misalignment. The bill would require the Commerce Department to treat currency manipulation as an illegal subsidy and impose applicable duties. Background Under existing trade laws, if the Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission find that subsidized imports are causing economic harm to American manufacturers and workers, the administration must impose duties on those imports to offset (“countervail”) the benefit conferred on foreign producers and exporters by the government subsidies. While the Department of Commerce already has authority under U.S. law to investigate whether currency undervaluation by a government provides a countervailable subsidy, it has repeatedly failed to do so despite repeated requests from a wide range of U.S. industries. The Currency Undervaluation Investigation Act would require the Department of Commerce to investigate whether currency undervaluation by a government provides a countervailable subsidy if a U.S. industry requests an investigation and provides proper documentation. In previous countervailing duty investigations, the Department of Commerce has refused to find an export subsidy if the subsidy is not limited exclusively to circumstances of export (i.e., when non-exporters may also benefit). The bill would preclude the Department of Commerce from imposing this bright-line rule, and would clarify that Commerce may not refuse to investigate a subsidy allegation based on the single fact that a subsidy is available in circumstances in addition to export. This clarification is supported by dispute settlement rulings of the World Trade Organization’s Appellate Body.
02.09.2015	02.09.15 Senator Burr's Statement On The Passing Of Dean Smith WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of Dean Smith: "Dean Smith's accomplishments as coach, mentor, and teacher made him a legend in our state, and far beyond Tobacco Road. Brooke and I are deeply saddened to hear of his passing, but he left his indelible mark on this state. Under his stewardship, UNC became the formidable college basketball powerhouse that it is today. While he was a winning coach, he also encouraged his players to excel in the classroom and taught well beyond the locker room. He and his family are in my prayers today."
02.06.2015	02.06.15 Bipartisan Senators Introduce Legislation To Close Loophole On Military Sexual Assault Reporting WASHINGTON, D.C.– Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) introduced legislation to close a legal loophole that currently enables sex offenders convicted under the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to evade registration with the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR). In August, the Department of Defense Inspector General completed an investigation of sexual offender tracking in the military, noting the alarmingly low self-reporting rates and providing a list of suggested solutions for improving tracking. “The bill I introduced today closes a horrendous gap that currently exists in identifying and tracking known sex offenders – a gap that should have been closed a long time ago,” said Senator Burr. “Congress should act swiftly to send this legislation to the President’s desk before another predator exploits this loophole and strikes again.” “We’ve got to close this egregious loophole that’s allowed convicted sex offenders to evade detection when they re-enter society,” said McCaskill, a former sex crimes prosecutor. “Tracking these folks should be a top public safety priority and this legislation provides the tools for law enforcement to properly monitor and identify these criminals.” The Military Sex Offender Reporting Act will require the Department of Defense (DoD) to register offenders directly with the FBI National Crime Information Center (NCIC) prior to the offender’s release from a Military Corrections Facility (MCF) or upon conviction if incarceration was not required. Currently, sex offenders convicted in the military justice system must self-report after release, whereas other sex offenders are reported prior to release. A recent Scripps investigation found that this loophole has enabled hundreds of convicted sex offenders to evade registering and allowed some to commit horrendous crimes again.
02.05.2015	02.05.15 Burr, Hatch, Upton Unveil Obamacare Replacement Plan Bicameral Republican Blueprint Lowers Health Care Costs And Increases Access To Affordable, Quality Care Without Washington Mandates WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), and House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) unveiled the Patient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility, and Empowerment (CARE) Act—a legislative plan that repeals Obamacare and replaces it with common-sense, patient-focused reforms that reduce health care costs and increase access to affordable, high-quality care. In contrast with Obamacare and its government-centered mandates and regulations, this bicameral proposal empowers the American people to make the best health care choices for themselves and their families. “The American people have found out what is in Obamacare— broken promises in the form of increased health care costs, costly mandates, and government bureaucracy. They don’t like it and don’t want to keep it,” said Burr. “Our nation’s health care system was broken before Obamacare, and the President’s health care debacle has only made things worse. The Patient CARE Act repeals Obamacare and addresses the fundamental cost drivers that Obamacare failed to address. We can lower costs and expand access to quality coverage and care by empowering individuals and their families to make their own health care decisions, rather than having the federal government make those decisions for them.” “From higher premiums and surprise tax bills, to patients losing plans they once enjoyed and hundreds of millions of dollars wasted on failed state exchanges, Obamacare has been a series of sorry surprises and broken promises. Yet, the ultimate failure of the law lies in its DNA – its inability to drive down costs making the law unsustainable and unaffordable,” Hatch said. “Today, we offer a bold bicameral plan that fully repeals and replaces the healthcare law with reforms that empower patients – not Washington. We agree we can’t return to the status quo of the pre-Obamacare world, so we equip patients with tools that will drive down costs while also ensuring those with pre-existing conditions and the young are protected. Our plan allows patients to make healthcare decisions for themselves - without a maze of mandates, fines, and taxes. This plan is achievable, and above all, fiscally sustainable. And, unlike the passage of Obamacare, which was done in secret, we welcome input from the American people as we move this plan forward.” “Five years ago, America needed health reform. What we got was a law that has divided the country and hurt too many of the families that reform could have helped. Now, when I ask folks in Michigan what they’re looking for in health reform, the answer is simple: they want us to roll up our sleeves and get to work, and that is what we have been doing for months, years even. They want real ideas on the table so we can have an honest debate,” said Upton. “The health care law has already changed how so many Americans access care, and the possibility of even more disruption lies ahead. Just as I offered the Keep Your Health Plan Act to give Americans more affordable choices, I am pleased to join my colleagues in the Senate to offer the Patient CARE Act to create even more options and flexibility. Republicans have always had positive ideas for how to strengthen our health care system by protecting patients with preexisting conditions, and empowering Americans with more affordable health care choices and transparency. With the Patient CARE Act, we’re presenting these ideas to the American people and offering a path to the health coverage and care they want and need." Following today’s release of the plan, the three lawmakers look forward to working with their Senate and House colleagues, states, and experts across the health care community to further refine and improve this blueprint with the goal of replacing Obamacare with common-sense reforms that lower health care costs and empower Americans in their health care choices and decisions. The Patient CARE Act provides a legislative roadmap to repeal the President’s health care law known as Obamacare and replace the law with common-sense measures that would: Establish sustainable, patient-focused reforms: · Adopt common-sense consumer protections; · Create a new protection to help Americans with pre-existing conditions; · Empower small businesses and individuals with purchasing power; · Empower states with more tools to help provide coverage while reducing costs; and · Strengthen consumer directed health care and allow Americans to buy coverage across state lines. Modernize Medicaid to provide better coverage and care to patients: · Transition to capped allotment to provide states with predictable funding and flexibility. Reduce defensive medicine and rein in frivolous lawsuits: · Medical Malpractice reforms. Increase health care price transparency to empower consumers and patients: · Require basic health care transparency to inform and empower patients. Reduce distortions in the tax code that drive up health care costs: · Cap the exclusion of an employee’s employer-provided health coverage. Empower Small Businesses and Individuals with Purchasing Power: · Targeted tax credit to help buy health care. To read the Patient CARE Act, click HERE. To read a two-page summary, click HERE. To read a list of Frequently Asked Questions, click HERE. To read a list of illustrative examples, click HERE. To see a comparison of Patient CARE with Obamacare, click HERE.
02.05.2015	02.05.15 Burr, Hatch, Upton Unveil Obamacare Replacement Plan Bicameral Republican Blueprint Lowers Health Care Costs And Increases Access To Affordable, Quality Care Without Washington Mandates WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), and House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) unveiled the Patient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility, and Empowerment (CARE) Act—a legislative plan that repeals Obamacare and replaces it with common-sense, patient-focused reforms that reduce health care costs and increase access to affordable, high-quality care. In contrast with Obamacare and its government-centered mandates and regulations, this bicameral proposal empowers the American people to make the best health care choices for themselves and their families. “The American people have found out what is in Obamacare— broken promises in the form of increased health care costs, costly mandates, and government bureaucracy. They don’t like it and don’t want to keep it,” said Burr. “Our nation’s health care system was broken before Obamacare, and the President’s health care debacle has only made things worse. The Patient CARE Act repeals Obamacare and addresses the fundamental cost drivers that Obamacare failed to address. We can lower costs and expand access to quality coverage and care by empowering individuals and their families to make their own health care decisions, rather than having the federal government make those decisions for them.” “From higher premiums and surprise tax bills, to patients losing plans they once enjoyed and hundreds of millions of dollars wasted on failed state exchanges, Obamacare has been a series of sorry surprises and broken promises. Yet, the ultimate failure of the law lies in its DNA – its inability to drive down costs making the law unsustainable and unaffordable,” Hatch said. “Today, we offer a bold bicameral plan that fully repeals and replaces the healthcare law with reforms that empower patients – not Washington. We agree we can’t return to the status quo of the pre-Obamacare world, so we equip patients with tools that will drive down costs while also ensuring those with pre-existing conditions and the young are protected. Our plan allows patients to make healthcare decisions for themselves - without a maze of mandates, fines, and taxes. This plan is achievable, and above all, fiscally sustainable. And, unlike the passage of Obamacare, which was done in secret, we welcome input from the American people as we move this plan forward.” “Five years ago, America needed health reform. What we got was a law that has divided the country and hurt too many of the families that reform could have helped. Now, when I ask folks in Michigan what they’re looking for in health reform, the answer is simple: they want us to roll up our sleeves and get to work, and that is what we have been doing for months, years even. They want real ideas on the table so we can have an honest debate,” said Upton. “The health care law has already changed how so many Americans access care, and the possibility of even more disruption lies ahead. Just as I offered the Keep Your Health Plan Act to give Americans more affordable choices, I am pleased to join my colleagues in the Senate to offer the Patient CARE Act to create even more options and flexibility. Republicans have always had positive ideas for how to strengthen our health care system by protecting patients with preexisting conditions, and empowering Americans with more affordable health care choices and transparency. With the Patient CARE Act, we’re presenting these ideas to the American people and offering a path to the health coverage and care they want and need." Following today’s release of the plan, the three lawmakers look forward to working with their Senate and House colleagues, states, and experts across the health care community to further refine and improve this blueprint with the goal of replacing Obamacare with common-sense reforms that lower health care costs and empower Americans in their health care choices and decisions. The Patient CARE Act provides a legislative roadmap to repeal the President’s health care law known as Obamacare and replace the law with common-sense measures that would: Establish sustainable, patient-focused reforms: · Adopt common-sense consumer protections; · Create a new protection to help Americans with pre-existing conditions; · Empower small businesses and individuals with purchasing power; · Empower states with more tools to help provide coverage while reducing costs; and · Strengthen consumer directed health care and allow Americans to buy coverage across state lines. Modernize Medicaid to provide better coverage and care to patients: · Transition to capped allotment to provide states with predictable funding and flexibility. Reduce defensive medicine and rein in frivolous lawsuits: · Medical Malpractice reforms. Increase health care price transparency to empower consumers and patients: · Require basic health care transparency to inform and empower patients. Reduce distortions in the tax code that drive up health care costs: · Cap the exclusion of an employee’s employer-provided health coverage. Empower Small Businesses and Individuals with Purchasing Power: · Targeted tax credit to help buy health care. To read the Patient CARE Act, click HERE. To read a two-page summary, click HERE. To read a list of Frequently Asked Questions, click HERE. To read a list of illustrative examples, click HERE. To see a comparison of Patient CARE with Obamacare, click HERE.
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Following Study Confirming Agent Orange Exposure, Bipartisan Group Of Senators Call On VA Secretary To Ensure Post Vietnam Air Force Veterans Receive Proper Benefits And Compensation WASHINGTON, D.C. -- A bipartisan group of senators led by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today called on VA Secretary Robert McDonald to ensure that veterans long denied care for exposure to Agent Orange receive timely and proper benefits and compensation. The letter follows a recent Institute of Medicine (IOM) study that provides new and compelling evidence on exposure to Agent Orange of veterans who flew contaminated aircraft after the Vietnam war. Burr and Merkley were joined in a letter by Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Michael Bennet (D-CO). The IOM study, which was published in January, found “with confidence” that post-Vietnam veterans serving on C-123 aircrafts were exposed to potentially dangerous levels of dioxin from aircrafts that were used to carry and spray Agent Orange during the Vietnam War and that were never properly decontaminated. According to the study, an estimated 1500-2100 personnel served on the affected planes, and numerous veterans among that group have developed symptoms, including cancer, consistent with Agent Orange exposure. The senators pushed the VA to reverse previous decisions that have denied veterans benefits and compensation, writing. “Despite (1) multiple Air Force reports going back to 1979 showing that the C-123s were contaminated, (2) numerous expert opinions from inside and outside the government suggesting these veterans were exposed to Agent Orange and other toxins, and (3) a judge’s order stopping the resale of these C-123s because the planes were a ‘danger to public health,’ the VA to-date has doggedly insisted there is no possibility that post-Vietnam era C-123 veterans might have been exposed to dangerous levels of Agent Orange. It also has denied all but one of the C-123 veterans’ claims for benefits.” They continued, “It is our desire to see that C-123 veterans who suffer today because of service-related exposure to Agent Orange receive the help they need. To speed the award of benefits, we ask that you provide a presumption of service connection for these veterans.” The senators also called on the VA to immediately review all C-123 Agent Orange exposure claims, including those that have been denied and are under appeal, and to work with the Department of Defense to proactively contact all veterans who served on any C-123s previously used in Vietnam to spray Agent Orange defoliant that were subsequently assigned to Air Force Reserve units based in the United States from 1972-1982 in order to notify these veterans that they may be eligible for benefits. The full text of the letter follows below and can be found here. ### February 4, 2015 Dear Secretary McDonald, We write to bring your attention to the Institute of Medicine’s (“IOM”) January 9, 2015, report on exposure to Agent Orange by veterans who served on Fairchild UC-123 Provider (“C-123”) aircraft post-Vietnam. The report, commissioned by the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”), stated “with confidence” that these veterans were exposed to potentially dangerous levels of dioxin. Given IOM’s recent finding, we ask that you use your authority to provide a presumption of service connection for C-123 veterans who flew or worked on planes that carried and sprayed Agent Orange and to revisit past and existing related claims. During the Vietnam War’s Operation Ranch Hand, the Air Force used approximately 30 C-123s to spray Agent Orange and other herbicides over Vietnam. Though never properly decontaminated, these planes remained in the fleet until 1982. An estimated 1500-2100 personnel who served on these planes were the subject of IOM’s recent report. It found, “with confidence,” that these personnel were exposed to toxic levels of Agent Orange and other herbicides as a result of the failure to adequately sterilize the aircraft. Despite (1) multiple Air Force reports going back to 1979 showing that the C-123s were contaminated, (2) numerous expert opinions from inside and outside the government suggesting these veterans were exposed to Agent Orange and other toxins, and (3) a judge’s order stopping the resale of these C-123s because the planes were a “danger to public health,” the VA to-date has doggedly insisted there is no possibility that post-Vietnam era C-123 veterans might have been exposed to dangerous levels of Agent Orange. It also has denied all but one of the C-123 veterans’ claims for benefits. The VA’s position has been disappointing. In a June 7, 2013, response to an inquiry from Senator Richard Burr, then-Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki provided a fact sheet that concluded, “(1) any residual TCDD (dioxin) [the carcinogenic element in Agent Orange herbicide] in the Operation Ranch Hand aircraft had solidified and is unable to enter the human body in any significant amount, and (2) there is no scientific evidence that a Veteran’s presence in an aircraft containing solidified TCDD can lead to adverse long-term health effects.” Further investigation was impossible due to the fact that the Air Force destroyed all the remaining C-123s before additional testing could be conducted. Because of mounting independent scientific evidence concluding that these veterans were exposed to dangerous levels of dioxin, the VA ultimately contracted with IOM to review the available data. On January 9, 2015, IOM issued its final report. The IOM committee concluded that C-123 flight crews “were exposed when working in the ORH C-123s and so experience some increase in their risk of a variety of adverse [health] responses.” (Emphasis in original). The IOM’s report also “emphatically” refuted the VA’s long-standing argument that residual TCDD in the C-123s posed no risk for veterans, noting instead that it is “accepted in the field of exposure science” that the TCDD contamination “persist[ed] long after the[] [aircrafts’] use” during the Vietnam War, and that Air Force reservists serving on those planes were exposed to TCDD and herbicides “through multiple routes.” We hope IOM’s findings will allow C-123 veterans finally to receive the benefits they have earned. However, our offices remain concerned about the VA’s ability to provide these individuals with consistent, fair access to critical services. For instance, the VA has repeatedly told some of our offices that it did not have a “blanket policy” of denying C-123 veterans’ claims. Each claim, they assured us, was “evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine if the available evidence support[ed] a service connection on a facts-found basis.” However, at least one VA denial letter stated, “The VA and DOD have specifically provided guidance that such secondary [Agent Orange] exposure cannot be granted service connection, to include working on planes that carried or sprayed . . . the herbicide . . . .” This discrepancy raises questions about the accuracy and validity of information provided to some of our offices, and the knowledge within the VA about VA policy towards these veterans. This is why we are bringing the IOM’s findings to your attention. It is our desire to see that C-123 veterans who suffer today because of service-related exposure to Agent Orange receive the help they need. To speed the award of benefits, we ask that you provide a presumption of service connection for these veterans. Further, we ask that the VA immediately review all claims, including those that have been denied and are under appeal, made by C-123 veterans for post-Vietnam exposure to Agent Orange. Finally, we ask that the VA proactively cooperate with the Department of Defense to contact all veterans who served on C-123s used to spray Agent Orange and other covered herbicides during the war and notify them that they may be eligible for benefits. We thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you to make sure the C-123 vets receive the benefits they deserve. Sincerely,
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Bipartisan Group of Senators Look to Gain Permanent Reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and others today introduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which would fully realize LWCF’s promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation. Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), Cory Gardner (R-CO), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) also cosponsored the legislation. “The LWCF has a proven track record of making good on the promise of conserving our parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitats for the benefit of future generations of Americans,” said Senator Burr. “My colleagues and I offer this bill to permanently extend the LWCF, a program that preserves our natural heritage but does so without asking American taxpayers to shoulder the burden. I look forward to my colleagues coming together to pass this bipartisan legislation.” “Access to Colorado’s open spaces is critical to our thriving outdoor recreation economy,” Senator Bennet said. “The LWCF has supported hundreds of projects across Colorado, from protecting the Ophir Valley to expanding and improving the Animas River Trail to providing Denver kids with outdoor educational opportunities in their own neighborhoods. We should pass this bill to reauthorize the program permanently, and at the same time, Congress should move to ensure the LWCF receives full and dedicated funding going forward." “The LWCF is our most important and successful conservation and recreation program. I have long supported this landmark program that has created opportunities for Americans to enjoy the outdoors in every state,” said Senator Collins. “By permanently extending the LWCF, our legislation will help create a more stable, long-term plan that allows landowners, states, local communities, and conservation partners to reasonably plan for the future.” “LWCF is a critical tool that helps expand access to our public lands and preserves our Montana way of life,” said Senator Daines. “By permanently reauthorizing LWCF we can remove uncertainty and protect access to public lands for future generations." “LWCF is essential to protect Colorado’s natural treasures and I have long supported a permanent reauthorization of this program,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation is supported by countless Coloradans and Americans who want to protect our country’s public lands for future generations to enjoy. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to see permanent reauthorization of LWCF signed into law.” "The Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped protect some of our most treasured public lands and wildlife refuges in New Mexico like the Valles Caldera and Ute Mountain,” Senator Heinrich said. “LWCF also expands opportunities for outdoor traditions like hunting, camping, and fishing that are among the pillars of Western culture, and a thriving outdoor recreation economy. Permanently and fully funding LWCF will help ensure that our outdoor heritage and public lands will be protected for future generations to enjoy." Read the legislation here.
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Burr Praises Unanimous Senate Passage Of Veteran Suicide Prevention Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the Senate passage of the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act today by a vote of 99-0. The SAV Act seeks to improve mental health care and suicide prevention resources for American veterans. "The suicide rate among veterans is tragically high and the programs and resources available to veterans are overdue for modernization. Today, the Senate took action to rectify this troubling trend. We must do a better job on behalf of the military men and women who serve to protect our liberties. I am proud that the Senate overwhelmingly passed the bipartisan Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act," said Senator Burr. "This legislation is big step in the right direction to fulfill our nation's promise to its veterans." Specifically, the bill provides for better access to information on mental health by improving the exchange of training, best practices, and other resources among the VA and non-profit mental health organizations to enhance collaboration of suicide prevention efforts, as well as including a new website that offers veterans information on mental health care services. It creates a pilot program of loan repayment for VA psychiatrists. The Clay Hunt SAV Act also creates a community outreach pilot program to help veterans transition from active duty service and extends the ability for certain combat veterans to enroll in the Veterans Health Administration for one year. Background: The legislation is named for Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who committed suicide in March 2011 at the age of 28. Clay enlisted in the Marine Corps in May 2005 and deployed to Anbar Province, near Fallujah, in January 2007. He was shot in the wrist by a sniper’s bullet that barely missed his head, earning him a Purple Heart. Clay recuperated at Twenty Nine Palms, Calif., and then graduated from Marine Corps Scout Sniper School in March 2008. He redeployed to southern Afghanistan a few weeks later. His unit returned in late October 2008 and he was honorably discharged from the Marines in April 2009. After returning home, Clay struggled with post-traumatic stress disorder for many years as he was provided care at his local VA hospital before taking his own life.
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Bipartisan Group Of Senators Introduce Bill To Strengthen, Enhance College Savings Plans WASHINGTON, D.C. Yesterday, Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) Bob Casey (D-Penn.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Mark Warner (D.Va.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Ben Cardin (D-Md.) introduced legislation to enhance the already successful Section 529 college savings plans. “These college savings accounts are an important tool for parents investing in their children’s future,” Burr said. “Our bill will allow some additional flexibility to help these accounts administratively function better. I hope that my colleagues will swiftly pass this commonsense, bipartisan legislation after the President’s recent attempt to kill this very popular program.” “These reforms will make it even more appealing for parents to use 529 college savings plans,” Grassley said. “The additions give more flexibility for using the tax-free savings. The more flexibility, the more people use something like this. The bill also sends the message to families that Congress supports this program and will fight efforts to get rid of it.” “529s are a proven method to help middle class families save for their children’s college education,” Casey said. “This bipartisan effort will bring will make commonsense changes to 529s to ensure that they continue to be a vehicle to advance the dreams of families across Pennsylvania and the nation.” “529 plans have been an important part of helping Virginia families finance their children’s educations,” Warner said. “This bipartisan bill will strengthen the ability of Virginians to save for college.” “We need to do everything we can to encourage families to plan and save for the high cost of a college education,” Roberts said. “This legislation builds on the sound model of the Section 529 plans, providing families flexibility in how to save, and reducing the need to borrow.” “We need to do all we can to make a college education more affordable,” Cardin said. “These small improvements will make a huge difference in how middle income families can save for educational expenses. We’re clarifying the rules and adding flexibility where it would be most helpful.” The bill builds on improvements to 529 college savings plans enacted in 2001 and 2006 under Grassley’s leadership on the Finance Committee and with broad bipartisan, bicameral support. The changes first made spending from the plans tax-free as long as the money was used for college and associated expenses and then made the tax-free provision permanent. The new bill has three main provisions. The first provision recognizes the reality that in today’s world, a computer is just as much a necessary educational expense as a required class textbook. As such, this bill allows 529 funds to purchase a computer on the same tax-favorable basis as other required materials. The second provision eliminates an outdated and unnecessary aggregation rule that increases paperwork and costs on plan administrators. The third provision provides tax and penalty relief in instances where a student may have to withdraw from school for illness or other reasons. Under current law, any refunds from the college are subject to immediate taxation and a 10 percent tax penalty. This provision eliminates this tax and penalty if the refund is redeposited in a 529 account. This permits a family to set the refund aside to pay for the student’s education should he or she be able to return to college or to use it for another family member. The 2001 and 2006 changes greatly increased the popularity of 529 plans, and the new bill has the potential to attract even more families, the senators said. Various studies and statistics suggest that 529 plans are largely held by middle income families, despite representations that the plans largely benefit high income taxpayers.
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Burr: Obama Budget Is A $2.1 Trillion Tax Hike, Doesn't Fix Country's Fiscal Problems WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in response to the President’s budget: “Today, the President released another tax and spend budget that never balances. This time, it’s $2.1 trillion in new taxes for Americans while increasing the debt. The President’s budget is less of budget and more of a wish list for pricey spending programs favored by Democrats. The President continues to signal to the American people and Congress that he has no interest in working to alleviate the serious fiscal issues plaguing our country.”
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Burr Applauds Passage Of The Keystone XL Pipeline Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the final passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline legislation: “I am proud that this job-creating legislation passed the Senate in a bipartisan manner that allowed for a lengthy debate and votes on many amendments,” said Senator Richard Burr. “This is how the Senate should run. It is my hope that the President does not ignore the wishes of the majority of Americans and signs this bill into law when it reaches his desk.”
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Burr-Bennet-Ayotte Amendment To Continue A Vital Conservation Program Garners 59 Votes In The Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, an amendment introduced by U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) received 59 votes in the United States Senate, sending a clear signal that the Senate supports a permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). While the amendment needed 60 votes in order to meet a procedural hurdle, today’s vote proves that a bipartisan majority of the Senate supports the LWCF. "Today’s vote is a strong statement that a majority of the Senate supports realizing LWCF’s promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation,” Senator Burr said. “We have all seen LWCF protect iconic sites in our states, and I believe most of us can agree that the LWCF is the best dollar-for-dollar conservation program this body has ever created. My colleagues and I will continue to champion this worthy program.” “While we’re disappointed the amendment did not pass, today’s vote signals that there is strong support for conservation policies like LWCF to help preserve the country’s landscapes for future generations,” Bennet said. “Protecting our land and water is mom and apple pie stuff in Colorado and we know our state is not the only one. Conserved land and wide open spaces are a huge economic driver across the country, and it’s part of who we are in the west.” “Today’s vote reflects strong bipartisan support in the Senate for permanently reauthorizing LWCF. I will continue my work to bolster this important conservation program, which has helped preserve and protect New Hampshire’s pristine landscape and outdoor spaces,” said Senator Ayotte. Rather than using taxpayer money, LWCF receives a small portion - $900 million each year - of the billions of dollars in annual oil and gas royalties gained from exploration on federally owned land and water and does not add to the nation’s debt.
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Burr, Alexander Release "Innovation For Healthier Americans" Report Report Details Chalenges To Getting Cutting-Edge Treatments, Devices And Cures To American Patients WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today released a report on the challenges to getting safe treatments, devices and cures to patients more quickly and effectively, examining what is working, and what isn’t, at the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health. The senators are soliciting feedback on their report as Chairman Alexander and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-Wash.) begin a major initiative in the Senate health committee —including a bipartisan working group and a series of hearings—to examine the time and cost currently involved with the drug and medical device discovery and development process, and how to better align public policies to support medical innovation. Burr said: “For decades, our nation has led the world in medical innovation, but the challenges of maintaining this edge have never been greater,” said Burr. “Our report asks a simple but critical question – how can we do it better? We are in an exciting era of medicine that holds tremendous potential to improve treatments and outcomes for patients. But to realize this potential, we must ensure that our nation’s discovery and development processes are working as well as possible. I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that the work of North Carolina’s researchers and innovators is reaching America’s patients in as timely a manner as possible, so that patients across our nation are able to benefit from cutting-edge medical products.” Alexander said: “America is home to the sharpest scientists and boldest researchers who are every day finding cutting-edge cures, treatments and devices to help make sick people well or make life easier for the disabled. The challenge is that our process for developing and reviewing these products is out of date and unable to match the pace of discovery, so American patients are waiting too long for relief. With the release of this report, we begin our work in the Senate health committee to modernize that review process and make Americans healthier.” In the executive summary, the senators write: “This report aims to examine the current process of drug and device development and identify the inefficiencies that stand in the way of a modern development and review process. We take a close and honest look at what is, and is not, working well at the NIH and FDA. We want to know what successes we can replicate, and what failures must be learned from and fixed.” “Our goal is simple and ambitious – to work in a bipartisan way with members of the HELP Committee to align public policies to support accelerating medical innovation and patient access to medicines and medical technologies. Science has never held greater potential to improve the quality of life and outcomes for America’s patients. In order to fully realize this exciting potential, we must identify, candidly assess, and confront existing factors that may be stifling efforts to innovate. The senators requested feedback on the report by February 23. Ideas should be sent to Innovation@help.senate.gov. These comments will be shared all members of the Senate HELP Committee. Click here to read the report:http://www.help.senate.gov/imo/media/Innovation_for_Healthier_Americans.pdf
01.22.2015	01.22.15 Bipartisan Group of Senators Look to Permanent Reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) introduced Amendment 92 to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which would fully realize LWCF’s promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation. "I have seen firsthand the role that the Land and Water Conservation Fund plays in acquiring land and maintaining North Carolina's reputation as one of the most scenic and unique states in the country," Senator Burr said. “While our efforts to fully fund LWCF are ongoing, today’s amendment seeks to simply reauthorize the program permanently and before it expires at the end of this fiscal year. Our nation’s scenic treasures should not be put into jeopardy on a yearly basis for a simple reauthorization. I hope my colleagues will support us in this effort.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a crucial tool that has helped preserve dozens of high-priority landscapes across Colorado,” Bennet said. “LWCF resources help safeguard our state’s natural heritage and drive our outdoor recreation-based economy. This bipartisan amendment will ensure the LWCF continues to be a valuable resource for Colorado’s and the nation’s conservation needs.” "Preserving New Hampshire's pristine landscape is important to our state’s economy and way of life," said Senator Ayotte. "LWCF has been used to protect thousands of acres in New Hampshire - without using taxpayer dollars. This amendment is a continuation of my efforts to bolster this key conservation program, which has made a real difference in our state." Rather than using taxpayer money, LWCF receives a small portion - $900 million each year - of the billions of dollars in annual oil and gas royalties gained from exploration on federally owned land and water. By ensuring that royalties dedicated to LWCF are protected, the legislation would foster federal, state, and local conservation investments that boost tourism, expand recreation spending, protect water quality, insulate communities from natural hazards, sustain agriculture and forestry on private lands, provide habitat for fish and wildlife, and improve the quality of life that draws businesses and workers to communities. The program also includes grants to support state and local parks for conserving and developing close-to-home recreation areas and grants for forests and wildlife protection - which create jobs and help communities to attract and keep employers.
01.21.2015	01.21.15 Burr, Gillibrand Bill Empowers American Families to Better Meet Child Care Needs WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) reintroduced the Child and Dependent Care FSA Enhancement Act, a bill that strengthens dependent care flexible spending accounts (FSAs) for American families by increasing the amount of pre-tax dollars that families can put into these accounts from $5,000 to $7,500. The bill will also index this new cap to inflation so that the value of dependent care FSAs keeps up over time as the cost of child care continues to increase. “As any working parent knows in this economy, affordable child care is difficult to find. This bill is one way to help American families stretch their dollars further in meeting their dependent care needs, whether it's for their kids or their elderly parents," Senator Burr said. "The cost of child care is increasing, and by increasing the amount Americans can put into a dependent care FSA and indexing it to inflation, we will help ensure that these accounts continue to be a meaningful option for families." “New York is the least affordable state in the nation when it comes to childcare, which now rivals the cost of sending children to college,” said Senator Gillibrand. “For many families, both parents working, or a single mom going to work to provide for her family isn't a choice. This bill is a step in the right direction as we work to ease the tax burden for families and help them stretch their dollars further to better meet the demands of paying for care for their child or aging parent.” Dependent care FSAs currently allow employees to exclude $5,000 from their gross-income to help them cover the expenses associated with child care or adult dependent care. This exclusion from gross income allows families to save money on income and FICA taxes. However, since the $5,000 cap is not indexed to inflation, families are falling more and more behind to the rising costs of care. Increasing the amount that can be excluded and indexing it to inflation would allow families to stretch their hard-earned dollars even further and will ensure that this type of care remains an option for families across our country.
01.21.2015	01.21.15 Burr, Alexander, Murray, Sanders Introduce Legislation to Support Social and Nutrition Services For Nearly 12 Million U.S Seniors WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C), with Senate health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-Wash.), and Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), introduced the Older Americans Act Reauthorization Act of 2015, legislation that supports social and nutrition services—from Meals on Wheels to senior centers—for nearly 12 million seniors. “The Older Americans Act is an important law for many of our seniors, particularly our most vulnerable,” said Burr. “I’m pleased that my colleagues and I are moving forward today to reauthorize this law and to ensure that the services it provides reach those who most need it. As more and more senior citizens choose to make North Carolina their home, it’s vital that funding for programs like Meals and Wheels reflects where seniors are moving.” “This legislation will help more than 150,000 seniors in Tennessee—and millions more throughout the country—by providing the support they need to live healthier, more independent lives as they age,” said Alexander. “This bill also strengthens the program to help ensure quality of care in nursing homes—giving peace of mind to residents and their families.” “We should be doing everything we can to support our seniors in leading healthy, fulfilling lives,”‎ said Murray. “I’m proud that from putting in place stronger elder abuse protections to ensuring funding for Meals on Wheels, this legislation makes important improvements to the care and resources available to seniors in Washington state and across the country.” “In 2015, in the United States of America, seniors should not be worried about how they will get their next meal,” said Sanders. “They should have the supports available to them to remain in their homes and communities. Seniors in Vermont and around this country deserve to live with dignity and with a sense of security, and the Older Americans Act helps to provide that.” In addition to providing grants to states for senior social and nutrition services, the reauthorization also aims to protect vulnerable elders from abuse by increasing existing abuse screening and prevention efforts. This includes programs to ensure that all residents of a long-term care facility have access to an ombudsman. The reauthorization streamlines federal level administration of programs, promotes effective use of transportation services, and improves coordination between programs at the federal, state, and local levels. The reauthorization also adjusts the formula that allots state grants to account for geographic changes in the older population. The Older Americans Act has been due for reauthorization since 2011.
01.20.2015	01.20.15 Burr: Missed Opportunities by POTUS WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on President Obama's State of the Union address: "The President began the year with an opportunity to work with Congress on policies that would help restore economic prosperity to our nation. Yet, before the State of the Union could even take place, he threatened to veto multiple bipartisan initiatives without ever seeing legislative text." "It is clear that the President is once again proposing to raise taxes for new Washington programs -- doubling-down on the failed policy of more taxes, more debt, and more spending and expanding the size and scope of the federal government. The President has missed his opportunity to move forward with this Congress." "I know Congress will continue to propose legislation that promotes economic growth, job creation, and a strong national defense." "The last several weeks have proven that Al-Qaeda is not decimated. It is time for the President and his Administration to admit that and to seriously attack the threat that radical Islamic terrorists present to us and the rest of the world."
01.16.2015	01.16.15 Burr, Bipartisan Group of Senators Announce Legislation to End Tax on Medical Devices Bill Eliminates Burdensome Tax That Hurts Innovation WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with a bipartisan group of Senators, led by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), introduced the Medical Device Access and Innovation Protection Act, S. 149, a bill to repeal the medical device tax that was implemented as a part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). Under PPACA, manufacturers of medical devices are required to pay a 2.3 percent excise tax on products ranging from surgical tools to bed pans. The tax, which took effect in January 2013, is hurting innovation, job creation, and the overall delivery of quality patient care. A study by the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) found that the tax impacted approximately 33,000 American jobs in its first year, either through layoffs or forgone jobs that would have been created. “I am proud to join Chairman Hatch once again to try to repeal the stifling and innovation-killing medical device tax. If we are serious about lowering the cost and improving the quality of health care, it makes no sense to impose a tax on medical devices. Additionally, this tax jeopardizes the jobs of thousands of Americans including almost 8,000 North Carolinians employed directly by the medical technology industry and many more who work in related positions,” said Senator Burr. “Repealing this job-killing medical device tax will help ensure America remains the world leader in the research and development of life-saving medical products and upholds our promise to patients in North Carolina and across our nation to continue to innovate on their behalf.” Joining Burr in introducing the Medical Device Access and Innovation Protection Act today were Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Bob Casey (R-Pa.), Dan Coats (R-Ind.), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.).
01.13.2015	01.13.15 Burr, Ayotte, Mccain, Graham Intoduce Legislation Restricting Transfers Of Guantanamo Bay Detainees WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), John McCain (R-AZ), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today introduced legislation that would restrict transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay in order to best protect Americans and our national security. The Detaining Terrorists to Protect America Act of 2015 would suspend international transfers of high and medium risk detainees, prohibit transfers of Guantanamo detainees to Yemen, extend the current prohibition on transfers to the U.S., and increase transparency regarding risk assessments of the remaining Guantanamo detainees. “Instead of working with Congress to develop common-sense policies to enable our national security personnel to detain and interrogate terrorists, this Administration continues to irresponsibly release detainees from Guantanamo Bay. Many of these detainees have returned to the battlefields from which they came and are looking for ways to kill Americans and our allies. The detainees that remain at Guantanamo are the worst of the worst, and their continued release will only further damage our national security. Safety is my utmost concern, and a two year prohibition on transferring the detainees with the highest risk should give Congress and the Administration time to develop a long-term plan for keeping this country safe,” said Chairman Burr. Click here to watch Chairman Burr’s comments “The barbaric attacks in France underscore the threat posed by Islamist terrorism and the need for a common sense detention and interrogation policy to gather the intelligence necessary to prevent future attacks. Unfortunately, to fulfill a misguided campaign promise, the administration seems to be more interested in emptying and closing Guantanamo, rather than protecting the national security interests of the United States and the lives of Americans,” said Senator Ayotte. “This legislation would prevent this administration from transferring the most dangerous detainees to other countries and would prevent detainee transfers to Yemen—the headquarters of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and one of the most dangerous countries on earth. This legislation would also require greater transparency from the administration regarding what terrorist activities detainees have previously been engaged in and what terrorist groups they are affiliated with. When the administration transfers a Guantanamo detainee, especially those formerly assessed as a high or medium risk for reengagement in terrorism, the onus is on the administration to explain openly to the American people what has changed. It is a simple matter of transparency and honesty with the American people.” KEY PROVISIONS The bill: Section 2: Extends the Prohibition on Construction or Modification of Facilities in the U.S. Extends, for two years from enactment, the prohibition on construction or modification of facilities in the U.S. to house current Guantanamo detainees. Section 3: Extends the Prohibition on Transfers to U.S. Extends, for two years from enactment, the standard prohibition on the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. The provision would permit the administration to place new detainees at Guantanamo for law of war detention and interrogation and then bring them to the United States. Section 4: Suspends International Transfers of High and Medium Risk Detainees. For two years from enactment, prohibits international transfers of Guantanamo detainees who have ever been designated or assessed by Joint Task Force Guantanamo to be a high or medium risk to the U.S., our interests, or our allies. Section 5: Prohibits Transfers to Yemen. For two years from enactment, prohibits the transfer of any Guantanamo detainees to Yemen. Section 6: Establishes a Higher Standard for International Transfers. Repeals the current international transfer provision (Section 1035 of FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)) the administration has used to transfer Guantanamo detainees and replaces it with the tough but reasonable standards from Section 1028 of the FY 2013 NDAA, which includes a national security waiver. If the administration can meet these commonsense requirements, over the next two years, the administration could transfer detainees internationally (but not to Yemen) who have never been designated or assessed as a high or medium risk to the U.S., our interests, or our allies. Section 7: Increases Transparency. Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit an unclassified report providing details on current Guantanamo detainees who have at any point been designated or assessed by Joint Task Force Guantanamo as a high or medium risk threat to the U.S., its interests, or its allies.
01.13.2015	01.13.15 Burr Releases Statement Following Report on Post-Vietnam Agent Orange Exposure in C-123 Aircraft WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released the following statement after reviewing the report by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), which examined the potential that C-123 aircraft flown and maintained by Air Force Reserve crews from 1972 to 1982 were contaminated by Agent Orange residue from their service in Vietnam and that those crews and maintainers were likely exposed to unsafe levels of Agent Orange dioxin. The IOM’s report concurs with earlier findings from the CDC, which found that the contamination during that ten year period would have posed a significantly higher health risk for Air Force Reserve personnel. In 2012, Senator Burr asked the VA Inspector General to take a close look at whether or not VA had an unwritten policy of “blanket denial” for the C-123 veterans. The VA Secretary assured Senator Burr there was no such policy; however, with the exception of one veteran who was granted disability in 2013, no other veteran has been approved without their case being decided by the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. “The VA's delay has gone on long enough. IOM’s report confirms what the VA already knew: C123K crewmembers were exposed to dangerous levels of Agent Orange. Instead of ignoring widely accepted science for three years and then commissioning an expensive study of that well founded science, the VA could have been caring for these veterans. They now have what they need to start helping these veterans,” said Senator Burr. “I know Chairman Isakson will continue to pursue this issue and ensure these post-Vietnam veterans are treated to the same standard as other veterans exposed to Agent Orange.” Read IOM’s report here.
01.09.2015	01.09.15 Burr Releases Statement on Higher Education Proposals WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) released the following statement after the President’s proposal to offer free tuition at community colleges for students striving for a four-year degree and maintain a 2.5 GPA or higher: “If the President has found the billions of dollars in new money that would be required for this latest idea, I’d prefer we use it to shore up Pell Grant’s finances so that assistance is available for years to come for North Carolina’s neediest students. Pell Grants provide students with maximum choice in post-secondary options from all sectors of higher education, including community colleges. This new proposal from the Obama Administration favors one sector of higher education over others when, as we all know, there are so many other options available that might best suit a student’s needs. Rather than committing to new programs that will carry substantial new costs, I believe we should be ensuring our existing promises to college students are kept and made sustainable for generations to come through commonsense reforms like the FAST Act and, legislation I’ve introduced with Senator King, the Repay Act.” Earlier this week, Senator Burr introduced two higher education pieces of legislation with a group of bipartisan colleagues, the Repay Act and the FAST Act. Senators Burr and King reintroduced their legislation, The Repay Act, to reform student loan repayment programs by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into two plans: a fixed repayment plan, based on a 10-year period, and a single, simplified income-driven repayment option. Read more about Repay Act here. Senator Burr also joined Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), and Angus King (I- Maine) in introducing the FAST Act which would simplify the financial aid process. The bill would reduce to a single postcard—called the “Student Aid Short Form”—the questions 20 million Americans must answer to apply for federal financial aid each year and inform high school students in their junior year of the amount they’ll receive in federal aid to help pay for college. It would also address the problem of some students borrowing too much money, and simplify the options students have to repay their federal loans. The act also streamlines federal grant and loan programs to better serve more students more effectively. Read more about the FAST Act here.
01.08.2015	01.08.15 Senator Richard Burr Named Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) has been named the new Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Chairman Burr served on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence during his tenure in the House of Representatives and became a member of the Senate Committee on Intelligence in 2007. “I am honored to assume the role of Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in the 114th Congress. I have spent the better part of two decades overseeing the work of our nation’s intelligence community as it has worked to keep us, and our allies, safe at home and abroad. Furthermore, I am proud that our North Carolina based military units continue to provide valuable support to intelligence operations and their role will likely only increase in the future. Under my leadership the Committee will conduct vigorous oversight over the intelligence activities of our government -- it is my job to ask the tough and probing questions and I intend to do just that.”
01.08.2015	01.08.15 Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduce Bill to Cut 108-Question Student Aid Form to 2 Questions Bill introduced by Alexander, Bennet, Burr, Booker, Isakson, King will simplify financial aid application for 20 million Americans who fill it our each year WASHINGTON, D.C. –Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), with Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), and Angus King (I- Maine) today introduced the FAST Act, a bill to simplify the process of applying for and receiving federal financial aid to attend college, allow year-round use of Pell Grants, discourage over-borrowing and simplify repayments. The bill would reduce to a single postcard—called the “Student Aid Short Form”—the questions 20 million Americans must answer to apply for federal financial aid each year and inform high school students in their junior year of the amount they’ll receive in federal aid to help pay for college. It would also address the problem of some students borrowing too much money, and simplify the options students have to repay their federal loans. The act also streamlines federal grant and loan programs to better serve more students more effectively. Burr said: “The FAST Act dramatically simplifies the process for answering the two biggest questions students face when going to school: which college can I afford and how much assistance can I expect from the federal government? I am happy to lend my support to this legislation, which will make the process for filling out the FAFSA form a snap.” Alexander said: “Every year, millions of students are discouraged from applying for financial aid by an unnecessarily complicated, 108-question form. This bill would cut those questions down to two, and help families get aid information sooner, while protecting taxpayers from lending more money to students than they’re able to repay.” Bennet said: “We can increase access to college and higher education for students simply by making this government form easier to use. This long overdue change will encourage more students to apply for college. Students and their families will also learn what aid they’re eligible to receive earlier in the process. Providing parents and students with as much information as possible on how they can afford the rising costs of higher education will allow them to make better long term decisions about their futures.” Booker said: “It is clear that simplifying the financial aid process would increase college access and enable students to get the aid they need and deserve. The Financial Aid Simplification and Transparency (FAST) Act is a good first step as the Senate considers legislation to increase access to higher education. I look forward to receiving feedback from students, families, and stakeholders as we work to reduce the burden of the financial aid process and boost enrollment." Isakson said: “Simplifying the overly complicated federal aid application and giving students and parents the opportunity to receive aid information earlier in their admission process will help provide easier access to the important tools necessary to choose a postsecondary institution that is right for them. Additionally, by protecting students from over-borrowing and helping them to better understand their repayment options, students will be better equipped to responsibly repay their loans.” King said: “Applying for federal student aid shouldn’t require a financial advisor. When it comes to our students getting the help they need to go to college, simplicity should rule the day. That’s why this bill dramatically streamlines the application paperwork and process, so that students can better access the aid they need to take that next step in their education. Bipartisanship means finding common sense solutions to everyday problems, and I am proud to join this group of senators in this effort and look forward to working together to move this proposal forward.” The senators said that they want to be certain that the short form sends taxpayer dollars solely to those eligible, and so would reduce the form to as close to two questions as possible without creating an opportunity for fraud or abuse. The Financial Aid Simplification and Transparency Act, or FAST Act, would transform the federal financial aid process by accomplishing the following: 1. Eliminating the Free Application for Financial Student Aid, or FAFSA: The bill would reduce the 10-page form to a postcard that would ask just two questions: What is your family size? And, what was your household income two years ago? 2. Telling families early in the process of what the federal government will provide them in a grant and loan. The bill would create a look-up table to allow students in their junior year of high school to see how much in federal aid they are eligible for as they are start to look at colleges. 3. Streamlining the federal grant and loan programs. The bill would combine two federal grant programs into one Pell grant program and reduce the six different federal loan programs into three: one undergraduate loan program, one graduate loan program,and one parent loan program, resulting in more access for more students. 4. Enabling students to use Pell grants in a manner that works for them. The bill would restore year-round Pell grant availability and provide flexibility so students can study at their own pace. Both provisions would enable them to complete college sooner. 5. Discouraging over-borrowing. The bill would limit the amount a student is able to borrow based on enrollment. For example, a part-time student would be able to take out a part time loan only. 6. Simplifying repayment options. The bill would streamline complicated repayment programs and create two simple plans, an income based plan and a 10-year repayment plan.
01.08.2015	01.08.15 Burr, King Lead Bipartisan Push To Reform Student Loan Repayment Programs WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Angus King (I-Maine), along with Senators Mark Warner (D-Va.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), introduced legislation to reform federal student loan repayment programs. The Repay Act, which Senators Burr and King originally introduced last Congress, would simplify the complex maze of federal student loan repayment programs by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into two plans: a fixed repayment plan, based on a 10-year period, and a single, simplified income-driven repayment option. “North Carolinians are tired of seeing their hard-earned tax dollars go to waste in a student loan program that serves neither their interests nor those of the college students it is intended to help. That is why Senator King and I are reintroducing the Repay Act,” said Senator Burr. “The Repay Act has two very simple goals: First, students should be presented with clear options on how to repay their student loan debts affordably and in a straightforward manner. Second, taxpayers should no longer subsidize the excessive borrowing and loan forgiveness that Washington has allowed to take place over the past few years. Although more can be done to address the deficiencies in our student loan programs, the Repay Act is a responsible step in the right direction toward better fiscal management of our loan programs that allows students to make well-informed decisions about borrowing for college. I look forward to working with my colleagues Senators King, Alexander, Warner, Rubio, and Collins to see the Senate pass this legislation to make repaying student loans simpler and fairer.” “The federal government’s student loan repayment programs, although well-intentioned, have grown to be complicated and confusing and do not serve the interests of America’s students or America’s taxpayers,” Senator King said. “The government should be making it easier for students to pursue their dreams after graduation – not saddle them with the added anxiety of combing through perplexing government forms. This bipartisan proposal simplifies loan repayment by consolidating many of the benefits of the existing plans, making it easier for students to decide which option best fits their needs, and lowering the chance they will fall behind on their payments.” “The Repay Act streamlines the federal loan program and ensures that graduates have affordable payment options in a way that is simple and intuitive,” Senator Warner said. “This bill incorporates several of the concepts Senator Rubio and I put forward last Congress, and I am encouraged to join this bipartisan group of colleagues in advocating for these much needed reforms as we look to reauthorize the Higher Education Act. Virginia students, graduates, and families are looking for student loan reforms that allows them to meet their obligations while also providing necessary protections.” “Helping more people achieve the American Dream requires equipping them with the education and training necessary to do the jobs of the 21st century. The Repay Act would help modernize the income-based repayment system for student loans, which Senator Warner and I have also been working on for the past year. We need reforms like this to ensure that the burden of student loans is more manageable to discourage overborrowing,” Senator Rubio said. “I believe this bill’s requirement for the GAO to study the best way enroll, verify income and facilitate income-based repayment programs will ultimately help build momentum for other initiatives I will continue working on as the Senate considers higher education reform later this year.” “Education plays a vital role in opening the doors of opportunity to all Americans, but the rising cost of a college education threatens to close those doors to lower-income families. Having worked at Husson University in Bangor, I know first-hand how critical financial aid is to students and their families,” said Senator Collins. “This legislation would help students and their families determine which repayment system works best for them, and helps ensure that higher education is accessible to students.” “The mess of federal student loan repayment programs only creates confusion for our 8 million student borrowers, causing more borrowers to fall behind on their payments or go into default,”said Senator Alexander, Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. “This plan from Senators Burr and King will make the process of student loan repayments simpler and more manageable for our college graduates.” Current graduates face a maze of federal student loan repayment programs from which to choose that often leave students confused about which program best fits their needs. In addition, due to years of changing eligibility terms and the introduction of new programs, little has been done to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not misdirected in subsidizing borrowers who do not need additional assistance. The Repay Act addresses those issues to make loan repayment more affordable for the middle class by eliminating duplicative repayment options, streamlining eligibility terms, and ensuring that borrowers will never direct more than 15 percent of their discretionary income to their loan payments. The proposal also ends the disproportionate federal subsidization of loan payments for high income borrowers and sets parameters for the amount of debt that can be forgiven over certain periods of time. Importantly, the Repay Act also eliminates a provision in the tax code that requires borrowers whose loans are forgiven due to total and permanent disability to pay tax on the discharged debt. These are commonsense changes supported by broad groups of stakeholders who want to see these programs become sustainable and user-friendly. This legislation is estimated to save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars over the next decade. To read more about the Repay Act, click HERE, and to see the full legislative text, click HERE.
01.07.2015	01.07.15 Burr Comments On Terrorist Attack On Charlie Hebdo WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement following the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris, France: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and families affected by the attack on Charlie Hebdo. This terrorist attack will not go unanswered. Our intelligence community will work with our partners around the world to find those who planned and carried out this attack and any others who plan similar attacks in the future.”
12.17.2014	12.17.14 Burr Comments on President’s Cuba Announcement WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the President’s announcement regarding Cuba: “I am glad that the Cuban Government has finally released Alan Gross, a man who committed no crime and has lost five years of his life. I am also heartened that we were able to secure the release of a man incarcerated for 20 years who was incredibly helpful to our nation.” “Regarding what the President said on normalizing our nation’s relationship with Cuba, I will listen closely to Chairman Corker, Ranking Member Menendez, and other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee as they contemplate any legislative changes that may need to be made in response to the President’s announcement. I continue to worry about human rights violations taking place in Cuba, including Cuba’s treatment of political prisoners, and am wary of the implications of the President's action.”
12.17.2014	12.17.14 Burr-Casey ABLE Act Passes Senate, Heads to the President’s Desk to Become Law Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) announced that the Senate has passed their Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act. The bill will allow families who have a child with a disability to save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts. The ABLE Act passed the House last week with a final vote of 404-17. This legislation has been called "...the broadest legislation to help the disabled in nearly a quarter-century." "Some have called the ABLE Act the most significant piece of legislation affecting the disabled since passage of the American Disabilities Act nearly 25 years ago. I got involved in this effort nearly 8 years ago with Senator Casey. Families of severely disabled children came to us expressing the critical need for an easy way to save for their child's future expenses, especially since many Americans with Down Syndrome and autism are now outliving their parents," said Senator Burr. "Most middle-class families don't have the money to spend on lawyers and financial planners to set up sophisticated trusts to make sure that their disabled child will be OK long after they are gone. What's worse current federal law actually discourages parents from putting any assets in the name of their disabled child in fear of disqualifying them from federal programs down the road. It's utterly unacceptable that our current laws doom a child born with a disability to a lifetime of poverty and dependence. This is especially unfortunate when a parent or other family member has the resources and the desire to save and plan for that child's future expenses but are advised by lawyers and planners not to. The ABLE Act will take the first critical step in ending this injustice." "I could not be more proud of the support the ABLE Act has received from members of both parties in the House and Senate, and from all of the families who worked with us to achieve this historic goal," said Senator Casey. "From the beginning, the power of these families who want to save for their loved ones' long term care has propelled the ABLE Act forward. We believe that individuals across this country with disabilities have a lot of ability. I look forward to President Obama quickly signing this bill into law so that countless families and individuals can have the tools they need to live a full life and have a bright future." The ABLE Act would amend Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Service Code to allow use of tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities. The bill, first introduced in 2006, would ease financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, medical, and transportation. The bill would supplement, but not supplant, benefits provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program, the beneficiary's employment, and other sources.
12.13.2014	12.13.14 Senate Passes 2015 Ominbus Appropriations Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the final vote on the fiscal year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations bill which passed the Senate this evening. "Today, I voted, with a bipartisan majority of my Senate colleagues, to pass the appropriations bill that will fund the government through fiscal year 2015. This legislation, while not perfect, will allow the federal government to continue to run, bringing us into the new year with a new majority. As imperfect as this legislation may be, it does include important provisions that were hard-won by my House colleagues." "This omnibus keeps federal spending below the budget caps, provides no new funding to Obamacare, and adds much needed oversight of the IRS. It also reduces funding for the IRS by $345 million, while banning the IRS from lashing out at individuals or groups who are merely expressing their right to free speech. It maintains important life protections and continues prohibitions on the transfer of GITMO detainees. It also includes measures to restrain regulatory overreach." "Let me reiterate once again my disapproval of the President's recent actions regarding amnesty and my fear that his actions pose a threat to our rule of law. I believe we can best address this executive overreach when we enter the new Congress with a majority in both chambers. That is why the appropriations bill only funds the Department of Homeland Security through February 27, ensuring that the new Congress will be able to take action to address President Obama's executive amnesty." To see other provisions of H.R. 83, click here.
12.12.2014	12.12.14 Burr Applauds Senate Passage of Beach Access Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauds the Senate passage of H.R. 3979, a bill that includes legislation he authored known as the Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act (S. 486). After successful bipartisan negotiations last year, an amended version of Senator Burr’s bill was approved by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. With Senator Burr’s urging, the amended version of S. 486 was included as part of larger legislation that the House of Representatives passed last week. The Hatteras legislation will help tourists and sportsmen gain access to North Carolina’s renowned Outer Banks beaches. The legislation will set rules and parameters for the National Park Service (NPS) to abide by when they consider limiting citizen access to beaches, including off-road vehicle (ORV) access. Senator Burr has long been an advocate of opening up North Carolina’s beaches to the public, while maintaining the wildlife and scenic beauty and began work on this legislation in 2008. Senator Burr’s hard work has led to the ORV access legislation finally being sent to the President’s desk. “Tonight’s Senate vote is a triumph for the Outer Banks region,” Senator Burr said. “The constraining regulations outside interest groups and the Federal government have imposed are finally being lifted. This is a win for North Carolinians and tourists from around the country who wish to visit North Carolina’s scenic treasures. I trust that the Park Service will use these new guidelines responsibility and I look forward to working with them to ensure that we are protecting beaches while also enjoying them.” New parameters would direct the NPS to minimize buffers on protected areas and keep them in place for the shortest possible duration necessary, designate pedestrian and vehicle corridors around areas that are closed, coordinate with the State of North Carolina when establishing certain buffers, and allow for a public process when considering limiting access in special situations. The agreement also directs the NPS to construct vehicle access points and roads as expeditiously as possible and report its progress to Congress within one year of the act becoming law. Groups including the American Sportfishing Association and Congressional Sportsmen Foundation are supporters.
12.10.2014	12.10.14 TOMORROW: Bicameral, Bipartisan Press Conference on ABLE Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of this week’s Senate vote on the ABLE Act, a group of bicameral, bipartisan Members of Congress will hold a press conference on this crucial piece of legislation that will empower millions of Americans with disabilities. PARTICIPANTS: • Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) • Sen. Bob Casey (D-PA) • House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) • House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (R-TX) • Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) • Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) DATE: **TOMORROW** Thursday, December 11, 2014 TIME: 12:15PM ET LOCATION: HVC-Studio A Capitol Visitor Center *NOTE: A mult box will be provided on-site*
12.09.2014	12.09.14 Burr: Intel Report Endangers Officers and Allies, Smear on Bush Administration WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) had the following reaction to today’s release of the majority Intel report: “In April, I voted to submit the Democrat’s study to the Executive Branch for redaction and, if appropriate, release. Rather than go through a thorough, thoughtful redaction process that would ensure the protection of our intelligence professionals and international allies, the Committee Democrats chose instead to pressure the White House and our Intelligence Community to release more information for political reasons that only they understand.” “I fear the ramifications for our national security and global partnerships, and I stand by my assertion that this report is flawed, biased, and political in nature. What was released today by the Committee Democrats is largely already known by the vast majority of Americans -- what was new in the report was the dangerous inclusion of information about countries and other partners who aided the United States’ intelligence community. The Committee Democrats’ pressure to request inclusion of these additional details, and the Administration’s acquiescence, will likely cause long-lasting damage to our international relationships and threaten intelligence professionals and American citizens around the world. It is regrettable that the Committee’s Democrats decided to put their own political agenda before the safety and security of our nation and our allies.” “I urge everyone to read the Minority Views which document many falsehoods propagated by the Study. In fact, the CIA attempted to keep the Congress informed of its activities and did not impede White House oversight." “It seems to me that this report only endangers our officers and allies in a blatant attempt to smear the Bush Administration. Neither of these things fall under the mission of the intelligence committee.” Read the Minority Views here.
12.04.2014	12.04.14 Burr Applauds House Passage of Beach Access Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauds the House passage of H.R. 4435, a bill that includes legislation he authored known as the Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act (S. 486). After successful bipartisan negotiations last year, an amended version of Senator Burr’s bill was approved by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. With Senator Burr’s urging, the amended version of S. 486 was included as part of larger legislation that the House of Representatives passed today. The Hatteras legislation will help tourists and sportsmen gain access to North Carolina’s renowned Outer Banks beaches. The legislation will set rules and parameters for the National Park Service (NPS) to abide by when they consider limiting citizen access to beaches, including off-road vehicle (ORV) access. Senator Burr has long been an advocate of opening up North Carolina’s beaches to the public, while maintaining the wildlife and scenic beauty and began work on this legislation in 2008. Senator Burr’s hard work has led to ORV access finally being passed by the House and soon by the Senate. “Interference from outside interest groups and Federal restrictions on beach access have crippled local businesses along the Cape Hatteras National Seashore for years – it has impaired the local community and its economy,” Senator Burr said. “This House vote is a win for North Carolinians and tourists from around the country who wish to visit North Carolina’s scenic treasures. This has been a long journey that required compromise on both sides of the aisle in order to see it through. I feel confident that my Senate colleagues will swiftly pass this legislation and unlock the beauty of North Carolina’s shores.” New parameters would direct the NPS to minimize buffers on protected areas and keep them in place for the shortest possible duration necessary, designate pedestrian and vehicle corridors around areas that are closed, coordinate with the State of North Carolina when establishing certain buffers, and allow for a public process when considering limiting access in special situations. The agreement also directs the NPS to construct vehicle access points and roads as expeditiously as possible and report its progress to Congress within one year of the act becoming law. Groups including the American Sportfishing Association and Congressional Sportsmen Foundation are supporters.
12.04.2014	12.04.14 Senators Burr, Casey to Call on Senate to Take Up and Pass ABLE Act that Would Allow Families Who Have a Child with a Disability to Save for their Long Term through 529-Style Savings Accounts Burr, Casey Have Led Senate Effort to Secure 75 Senate Cosponsors, Move Bill to Brink of Becoming Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a bipartisan vote in the House of Representatives U.S. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) will call on the Senate to take up and pass the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act that will allow families who have a child with a disability to save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts, TOMORROW, Thursday, December 4th at 2:15pm during a conference call. Burr and Casey will be joined by one of the nation’s leading advocates for the ABLE Act- Scranton, Pennsylvania native Sara Wolff. Burr and Casey have led the Senate effort on the bill that now has 75 Senate cosponsors and stands on the brink of passage. The bill, which has been called “the broadest legislation to help the disabled in nearly a quarter-century,” could be taken up by the Senate in the coming days. When: Tomorrow, Thursday, December 4th at 2:15pm Call #: 202-228-0808 ***Please RSVP to john_rizzo@casey.senate.gov or alex_miller@casey.senate.gov to receive the passcode
12.01.2014	12.01.14 Senator Burr Introduces Resolution Recognizing the Bravery of the Montagnard People in the Vietnam War WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced a resolution recognizing the heroic acts of the Montagnards, an indigenous tribespeople of Vietnam. This resolution is a historic first in the Senate, which has not previously honored these brave individuals who fought alongside the United States military during the Vietnam War. "I am honored to put forward this resolution to thank and remember the Montagnards who joined us in Vietnam and saved thousands of lives with their heroic actions," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina is now home to many Montagnards and our state is made better by their presence. I hope my colleagues will swiftly pass this resolution." More than 60,000 Montagnards assisted U.S. troops as interpreters, scouts, and soldiers during the war. After the Vietnam War, the U.S. resettled thousands of Montagnards as refugees to escape persecution from the Vietnamese government. Currently, the largest population of Montagnards outside of Vietnam resides in North Carolina, but Montagnards also resettled in other states, including in California, Florida, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Washington. This resolution also condemns the Government of Vietnam for its ongoing and reported violations of the Montagnards' basic human rights, including the freedom to practice their faith without fear of persecution. You can read the text of this resolution here.
11.27.2014	11.27.14 Senator Burr's Thanksgiving Message This Thanksgiving my family and I are reflecting on all the things our nation has to be grateful for and I hope your family will join us in doing so. I want to give thanks for our brave men and women who are fighting for our freedom here and in far-away places. Thank you to those who came before us and served selflessly for our nation. I want to thank those in uniform and the civilian volunteers that are risking bodily harm to provide care for those in African countries affected by Ebola. Let us also remember our neighbors, especially those who are struggling to provide for their families. In this season, we should do what we can to offer assistance to those who need a helping hand. I am thankful for the volunteers who assist the homeless and others in need and the message of hope they spread through their good work. I am thankful that we live in a nation that allows for peaceful, democratic elections and strives to provide the opportunity for every citizen to chase the American dream. God bless the United States of America and God bless you and yours.
11.25.2014	11.25.14 Burr, Wyden, 39 Other Senators Urge Funding Solution for LWCF WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr, R-N.C., Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and a bipartisan coalition of 39 of their Senate colleagues urged Senate leaders Harry Reid, D-Nev., and Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., to work with them to find a permanent funding solution for the Land and Water Conservation Fund before the end of the current Congress on Dec. 31, in a letter sent yesterday. The LWCF program, which helps ensure access to outdoor recreation areas by providing funding to protect public lands and matching state grants, is set to expire in September 2015. In the 50 years since Congress created the program, the LWCF has helped conserve land for national parks, forests, wildlife refuges, wilderness, monuments, and civil war battlefields, and served as a resource for creating and developing state and local parks in all 50 states. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund guarantees a prosperous and vital future for the next generation while preserving our uniquely American way of life across this nation,” the senators wrote in the letter. “Accordingly, we urge you to enact a permanent and comprehensive solution for this vital program before the 113th Congress adjourns.” The LWCF is funded almost entirely by oil and gas leasing along the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). Congress authorized the fund at $900 million through the end of the fiscal year, on Sept. 30, 2015. Other senators who signed the letter include: Senators Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., John Walsh, D-Mont., Susan Collins, R-Maine, Michael Bennet, D-Colo., Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, Tom Udall, D-N.M., Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., Joe Manchin, D-W.V., Bernard Sanders, I-Vt., Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., Angus King, I-Maine, Kay Hagan, D-N.C., Jon Tester, D-Mont., Ben Cardin, D-Md., Tim Johnson, D-S.D., Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, Al Franken, D-Minn., Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., Chris Murphy, D-Conn., Cory Booker, D-N.J., Chris Coons, D-Del., Robert P. Casey, Jr., D-Penn., Ed Markey, D-Mass., Mark Pryor, D-Ark., Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., Tom Harkin, D-Iowa., Bob Menendez, D-N.J., Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., Mark Udall, D-Colo., Tim Kaine, D-Va., Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn. Read the letter here.
11.24.2014	11.24.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on Secretary Hagel's Resignation WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding Secretary Hagel's resignation: "It is clear that Secretary Hagel is taking the fall for the Administration's mismanagement of the international challenges facing our nation, from Ebola to ISIL and the lingering questions about our future role in Afghanistan. Rather than looking across the Potomac to find someone to blame, the President should be looking at his own inner circle - something it is clear Secretary Hagel was never a part of."
11.20.2014	11.20.14 Senator Burr: A Dangerous Shift From a Nation of Laws to a Nation of Men WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the President's announcement: "Tonight the President announced his intention to pursue amnesty for illegal immigrants through executive action. This decision, counter to his own statements over the last few years, represents the very height of Presidential arrogance and signifies a dangerous shift from a nation of laws to a nation of men. In order to achieve some sort of gain for his political party, the President risks damage to the rule of law in our nation, but he also threatens a more immediate impact on those here legally, those following the legal process to gain entry into our country, and others struggling to find work in a fragile economy. Our border states will also be further stressed as they deal with another, almost certain surge of additional illegal immigrants looking for similar treatment from this White House."
11.17.2014	11.17.14 Burr, Mikulski, Harkin, Alexander Applaud Senate Passage of Bipartisan Bill to Help American Families Access Safe, Affordable, and Quality Child Care WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today applauded Senate passage of the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2014, a bipartisan reauthorization that will expand access to and improve the quality of child care for the more than 1.5 million children and families that benefit from the federal child care subsidy program. The law has been due for reauthorization since 2002. Harkin and Alexander are chairman and ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, while Mikulski and Burr are the former chairwoman and ranking member of the Senate Subcommittee on Children and Families. The legislation, which was unanimously approved by the Committee in September 2013, represents the 25th bipartisan HELP Committee bill in the 113th Congress to be considered by the full Senate. Eighteen of those bills have already been signed into law. “After years of hard work with Senator Mikulski, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this bipartisan, commonsense piece of legislation that will foster the development of children across this nation,” said Senator Burr. “CCDBG is a welfare reform success story -- supporting the safety and education of our children while empowering parents to take control of their own future. This legislation promotes transparency so parents can be well-informed consumers of child care while ensuring federal dollars will no longer go to child care providers who have been convicted of violent crimes. I am proud to have played a part in this major achievement in helping children and their hardworking families.” “Today’s bipartisan action by the Senate to refresh and reform the vitally important CCDBG program is good news that will bring peace of mind to the thousands of Maryland families who rely upon this program for child care. I introduced this legislation together with Senator Burr to ensure that child care across America is available, affordable, reliable, safe and exceptional,” Senator Mikulski said. “This bill reforms and refreshes important child care legislation, so moms and dads of modest means can afford child care while they go to work or school. Child care is something all families worry about, regardless of income or zip code. I look forward to this bill being signed into law so we can help ensure all children get the care they need and deserve so they and their families can have a better, brighter future.” “An essential part of helping working families succeed is ensuring access to safe, affordable, and quality child care,” Harkin said. “Today’s Senate passage of this critical, bipartisan measure will strengthen quality and safety standards in child care settings while also ensuring that low-income and at-risk children and families have access to the affordable care they need. I am pleased this bill to promote the healthy development of our children will soon become law, and proud to be able to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to add to the HELP Committee’s record of bipartisan accomplishments.” “Today the Senate sends to the president’s desk a bill that will help nearly 21,000 Tennessee families not only afford to enroll their children in child care, but be able to choose the care that is best for their family,” said Alexander, the top Republican on the Senate HELP Committee. “Every month, an average of 39,000 Tennessee children get childcare through this program while their parents earn an education or build a career. The legislation passed today will continue success stories like the Memphis mother whose infant received care through this program while she earned a business degree and rose to assistant manager at a Walmart, enabling her to pay for the care of her second child at the same childcare center.” When the CCDBG program was last reauthorized in 1996, the program rightly focused primarily on workforce aid. But in the intervening years, more has been learned about the necessity of not just providing children with a place to go, but also the importance of providing them with high-quality care. Last Congress, Mikulski and Burr held three public hearings—consulting with parents, childcare providers and early learning and developmental experts and other child care advocacy organizations—to explore how best the CCDBG program could be reauthorized and improved. The CCDBG reauthorization bill incorporates feedback and suggestions provided to the Committee since 2012. The bill requires states to devote more of their funding to quality initiatives, such as training, professional development, and professional advancement of the child care workforce. The bill ensures that CCDBG providers meet certain health and safety requirements related to prevention and control of infectious diseases, first aid and CPR, child abuse prevention, administration of medication, prevention of and response to emergencies due to food allergies, prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and shaken baby syndrome, building and physical premises safety, and emergency response planning. The legislation gives families more stability in the CCDBG program and works to improve early childhood care also by requiring states to focus on infant and toddler quality initiatives. Finally, the bill requires mandatory background checks for child care providers in the CCDBG program. A summary of the bill can be seen here.
11.17.2014	11.17.14 Senators Burr, McCain, Blumenthal, Blunt, Murkowski and Manchin Introduce The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), John McCain (R-AZ), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and Joe Manchin (D-WV) today introduced The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, legislation that offers several critical measures that would improve mental health care and suicide prevention resources for American service members. The bill would require a third-party evaluation of existing suicide prevention programs at the Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to gauge their effectiveness and make recommendations for consolidation, elimination, or improvement. It would also provide for a new website that offers veterans information regarding available mental healthcare services; create a pilot loan repayment program for VA psychiatrists; and improve the exchange of training, best practices, and other resources among the VA, Veteran Service Organizations (VSO), and non-profit mental health organizations to enhance collaboration of suicide prevention efforts. “An estimated 22 veterans commit suicide every day, a shocking and unacceptable reality,” said Senators Burr, McCain, Blumenthal, Blunt, Murkowski and Manchin. “We are proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation to improve and modernize the suicide prevention programs and resources available to our fighting men and women. When enacted, this bill will provide additional resources for veterans who suffer from mental health disorders that place them at higher risk of suicide. It will ensure that existing suicide prevention programs are reviewed to determine which ones work and get rid of those that don’t, improve collaboration between the Department of Veterans Affairs and Veterans Service Organizations, and provide incentives to attract more psychiatrists to treat veterans through the VA. Our nation has a long way to go to decrease the rate of suicide among our veterans and we must do much better in fulfilling our responsibilities to care for those who have risked everything on behalf of their fellow Americans.” The bill was named for Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who committed suicide in March 2011 at the age of 28. Clay enlisted in the Marine Corps in May 2005 and deployed to Anbar Province, near Fallujah, in January 2007. He was shot in the wrist by a sniper’s bullet that barely missed his head, earning him a Purple Heart. Clay recuperated at Twenty Nine Palms, CA and then graduated from Marine Corps Scout Sniper School in March 2008. He redeployed to southern Afghanistan a few weeks later. His unit returned in late October of 2008 and he was honorably discharged from the Marines in April 2009. After returning home, Clay suffered from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) for many years and struggled with inadequate care at his local VA hospital before taking his own life. The text of the legislation is here. The legislation is supported by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of American (IAVA).
11.13.2014	11.13.14 TODAY: BURR, MIKULSKI TO URGE SENATE PASSAGE OF THEIR BIPARTISAN BILL TO HELP AMERICAN FAMILIES ACCESS SAFE, AFFORDABLE AND QUALITY CHILD CARE Senators introduced bipartisan legislation to support CCDBG which serves more than 1.5 million children every month WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, November 13, 2014 at approximately 3:30p.m., immediately following votes, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior members of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, will call on the Senate to pass the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2014. The Senate is scheduled to take a procedural cloture vote on the legislation on Thursday prior to the press conference. A vote on final passage is expected to occur late this week or early next. An earlier version of the legislation, introduced by Senators Burr and Mikulski, together with Senators Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), unanimously passed the Senate HELP Committee, passed the Senate by a vote of 96-2, and was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives in September after certain negotiated changes were made. The modified bill must now pass the Senate again before being sent to the President to become law. The CCDBG reauthorization bill incorporates feedback and suggestions provided to the Committee since 2012. The bipartisan and bicameral legislation promotes high quality care by reserving funds at the state level to improve the quality of care provided to children, enhances states’ ability to train providers, and develop safer and more effective child care services. The bill enhances parental choice by providing information about available care options from all providers, including faith-based and community-based providers, and allowing parents to choose the child care provider that best suits their family’s needs. Finally, the legislation ensures that all providers comply with state health, safety and fire standards and undergo annual inspections and background checks. The text of the bill is available here. WHO: U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senate HELP Committee senior member and former Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Children and Families U.S. Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senate HELP Committee senior member and former Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Children and Families WHEN: Thursday, November 13, 2014 Approximately 3:30p.m. – Immediately following votes WHERE: Senate Radio/Television Gallery (S-325) U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515
11.04.2014	11.04.14 Senator Burr Announces Event for November 5th WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Wake county on November 5, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr’s press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Wednesday, November 5, 2014 11:30am Senator Burr to join the NC Heroes Fund Luncheon WakeMed The Andrews Center 3024 New Bern Avenue Raleigh, NC
10.27.2014	10.27.14 Senator Burr: 'Actions must be based on the consistent application of science’ WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “I certainly understand the difficult decisions Governors across our nation are facing and why they may have come to the conclusion that a 21-day mandatory quarantine might be needed. These decisions are made that much more difficult in light of the constantly evolving guidance from CDC. Decisions on how best to stop the spread of this virus must be rooted in the science of how difficult it is for Ebola to be transmitted, and ultimately support a strategy that defeats Ebola overseas in West Africa. It would be a mistake to take actions that would deter aid workers from going overseas to assist in the efforts to stop the spread of this deadly virus—which we must do in order to protect the American people. As we have seen with CDC’s constantly changing guidelines, we need certainty and consistency, not further confusion and inconsistencies. I hope that the Administration and individual Governors’ actions will be based on the science of Ebola and the risk posed by individuals returning from the hot zones."
10.20.2014	10.20.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for the Week of October 20th WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Iredell, Mecklenburg, Forsyth, Wake, and Cumberland counties during the week of October 20th. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr’s press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, October 21, 2014 10:45am Senator Burr to visit Career Academy & Technical School 350 Old Murdock Rd Troutman, NC 12:30pm Senator Burr to speak to the Rotary Club of Charlotte Marriott Fairfield Inn & Suites 201 South McDowell St Charlotte, NC 2:00pm Senator Burr to join WBTV for an in-studio interview 1 Julian Price Place Charlotte, NC Wednesday, October 22, 2014 9:00am Senator Burr to meet with the Presidents of North Carolina Independent Colleges and Universities Wake Forest University 1834 Wake Forest Rd Winston Salem, NC Thursday, October 23, 2014 11:00am Senator Burr to visit Parksite 3471 Apex Peakway Apex NC 27502 12:30pm Senator Burr to visit Epic Games 620 Crossroads Blvd Cary, NC 5:30pm Senator Burr to visit with the Young Professionals of the Risk Management Association Flywheel 525 Vine St., Suite 210 Winston-Salem, NC Friday, October 24, 2014 11:00am Senator Burr to visit Pope Airfield Pope Army Airfield Fayetteville, NC
10.16.2014	10.16.14 Senator Burr: 'We continue to be two steps behind this deadly virus' WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Two weeks ago, I urged the President and his Administration to reassess the strategies and protocols we have in place to deal with the threat posed by the deadly Ebola virus. Unfortunately, it appears that little has changed in the federal government’s response. In the meantime, the NIH Director is playing politics, the CDC Director is playing catch up, and the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at HHS— a position created years ago to lead our nation’s medical and public health response in just such an emergency – is nowhere to be found.” “In the last two weeks we have witnessed the first death from Ebola, and the first two cases of transmission, in the United States. Along with those news reports, however, come conflicting reports of protocol breaches and travel advice. These reports led to a day’s worth of media criticism of a nurse’s professionalism, followed by even more questions about whether the CDC is ultimately capable of fulfilling its core mission – disease control and prevention.” “We continue to be two steps behind this deadly virus. We must firm up our protocols for treating patients, improve training and preparedness of our health care professionals, and take a serious look at travel to and from the hot zone in West Africa. We must treat Ebola like the public health emergency it is, rather than continue to manage it as just another political crisis that will soon pass.” “Once again, I urge the Administration to stop, look at the entirety of our response effort, and conduct a fundamental reassessment of what we are doing — and why – and take actions that will ensure the safety and security of the American people.”
10.15.2014	10.15.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for October 16th and 17th WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting New Hanover and Davie counties during October 16th and 17th. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Thursday, October 16, 2014 8:00am Senator Burr to provide the Morning Kick-Off Remarks at FedCon Summit 2014 Wilmington Convention Center 515 Nutt St Wilmington, NC Friday, October 17th, 2014 5:00pm Senator Burr to attend Ashley Furniture's Grand Opening of its Mid-Atlantic Manufacturing and Distribution Facility 333 Ashley Furniture Way Advance, NC
10.03.2014	10.03.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on the Current Ebola Situation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement: “Last month, the President said we had to act fast to address the global threat of Ebola; however, his Administration’s response has been anything but fast and successful. By all measures our response to Ebola has fallen short. The President’s concerns are real—defeating Ebola is a matter of national security. From the outset of the Ebola outbreak we have been two steps behind, when we should have been two steps ahead. We have been scrambling to catch up as the Ebola virus spirals out of control, leaving a path of unprecedented human devastation in West Africa. Thousands have become ill from this virus, thousands have died, and these numbers could explode to over a million in the coming months. The President made a lot of commitments to combat Ebola, actions which I supported, but it has become clear that the Administration’s capacity to fulfill these promises in a timeline that sufficiently addresses this crisis does not exist. The Administration’s neglect at having a single individual in charge of coordinating America’s Ebola response has caused difficulty with interagency coordination and the ability to successfully meet the timelines presented by the Ebola crisis. This has been a tragic failure of leadership that is unacceptable. For the most prepared country in the world we are finding out just how ill-prepared we really are. It is time to admit the realities that the current strategy to combat Ebola is not working. We need a designated leader, backed by the President, who can meet the urgency of this crisis head on and protect the American people, and end the confusion about who is charge of our total response effort. The President’s Ebola designee should on day one immediately require all agencies to reassess the Ebola strategies, timelines, goals, and policies we currently have in place, and ensure that we set realistic goals and adopt policies that put the safety of the American people and national security in place. We need to assess all options and swiftly correct course if we are going to have a shot at turning the tide in this deadly epidemic.”
09.23.2014	09.23.14 Regulations for Camp Lejeune Veterans and Families Approved WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced the publication of final regulations that will implement the “Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012,” the landmark law authored by Senator Richard Burr that ensures health care for Camp Lejeune contamination victims. Two publications are being released -- one to address the care of veterans affected by the contaminated water at U.S. Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune and the second to reimburse the expenses related to the care of family members who were also affected. Since the passage of this law, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) has been actively fighting to make sure the law's promise to Camp Lejeune veterans and their families are fulfilled, and he has called for multiple environmental investigations. After the President signed into law the “Honoring America’s Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012,” veterans immediately began receiving care for the various ailments and diseases associated with the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune, but it has taken significantly longer for VA to establish a reimbursement policy for medical care provided to military families who once lived on the base and were also exposed to the toxins in the base water supply. Senator Richard Burr had the following to say about today’s announcement: “I am pleased at the progress announced today – it has been a long time coming. Unfortunately, many who were exposed to the contaminated water have already died as a result of their exposures and will not be able to receive the help this law provides. I fully expect VA will now move swiftly to implement all the regulations and extend a helping hand to the victims of this tragic episode in our nation’s history,” said Senator Richard Burr. An estimated 750,000 people may have been exposed to probable and known human carcinogens in the base’s water supply between the 1950s and 1980s. To date, this is the largest recorded environmental incident on a domestic Department of Defense installation.
09.18.2014	09.18.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement Following Vote on CR WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement following a Senate vote on the Continuing Resolution to fund the operations of the federal government, which included language on ISIL. “For the better part of a year I’ve called for action to curb ISIL’s inhumane and brutal terror campaign. It is in our national interests to destroy ISIL and we should use all appropriate tools to do so.”
09.17.2014	09.17.14 Burr, Boxer Praise Unanimous Senate Passage of Resolution Honoring Auxiliaries of Veterans Service Organizations Generations of Auxiliary Women Have Volunteered Hundreds of Thousands of Hours and Have Raised Billions of Dollars to Support Troops, Veterans and their Families WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), co-chairs of the Senate Military Family Caucus, praised the unanimous Senate passage of a resolution recognizing the patriotism and contributions of veterans service organizations' (VSO) women's auxiliaries. "Auxiliaries, made up of generations of women, are the heart of our nation's quiet but devoted network that provide support to veterans and they should be recognized for their hard work and sacrifices," said Senator Richard Burr. "I am very pleased the Senate has passed this resolution -- it is time that we offer recognition of the auxiliary groups' service to our nation's veterans." "I am so pleased the Senate unanimously passed this resolution to recognize generations of women who have given so much to those who have selflessly served this country," Senator Boxer said. "Auxiliaries have been committed to supporting our service members, veterans and their families for nearly a century." More than one million Americans - wives, widows, mothers, grandmothers, daughters and granddaughters of veterans, as well as veterans themselves - are auxiliary members. They have worked alongside veterans service organizations for close to a century - volunteering hundreds of thousands of hours and raising billions of dollars to support countless charitable causes. Auxiliary units also conduct welcome home and send-off events for deployed service members and strengthen their communities by conducting food drives, visiting hospitals, providing scholarships and providing valuable support at veterans facilities. Senators Burr and Boxer introduced the resolution in July of this year. The full text of the resolution follows: Whereas, for nearly a century, auxiliaries have served as a complementary and integral part of veterans service organizations, supporting members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their families; Whereas, since their inception, auxiliary units have proudly supported members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and the families of those who have served, volunteering hundreds of thousands of hours and raising billions of dollars; Whereas auxiliaries have representatives in all 50 States and abroad; Whereas auxiliaries have more than 1,000,000 members and are composed of wives, widows, mothers, grandmothers, daughters, and granddaughters of veterans, as well as veterans themselves; Whereas auxiliary units have raised money to aid and enhance the lives of members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their families through financial support-providing assistance with essentials such as rent, child care, utilities, and food; Whereas auxiliary units host "stand-downs" that focus on providing vital health and support services to homeless veterans; Whereas auxiliary units strengthen their local communities by conducting food drives, visiting hospitals, and providing scholarships to youth; Whereas auxiliary units serve as advocates for veterans and their families; Whereas auxiliary units conduct welcome home and send-off events for members of the Armed Forces; Whereas members of auxiliaries selflessly volunteer their services at facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs throughout the country to enhance the lives of veterans and their families; and Whereas, each year, auxiliary units raise millions of dollars for cancer research: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate- (1) honors and recognizes the patriotism and countless contributions to the United States by generations of women in the auxiliaries of veterans service organizations; (2) commends members of auxiliaries in the United States and abroad for their dedicated service to and support of members of the Armed Forces and veterans as well as their families and communities; (3) encourages the people of the United States to promote awareness of the contributions and dedication of members of auxiliaries to members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their families; and (4) calls on the people of the United States to follow the noble example of the auxiliaries of veterans service organizations and volunteer support and services to those who have selflessly served the United States.
09.16.2014	09.16.14 Op-ed: Loan repayment changes will aid students and taxpayers, senators say By Senators Richard Burr and Angus King Imagine, for a minute, if America’s highway system were constructed like our nation’s federal student loan repayment programs. Vacationers seeking Maine’s iconic coastline or North Carolina’s beautiful beaches would be confronted with a dozen options of indirect paths that vary wildly in time from departure-to-arrival, went in roundabout routes and were so confusing to navigate that families got lost multiple times before arriving. Obviously – and thankfully – that’s not the case, for the Eisenhower Interstate Highway System directly and efficiently leads drivers to Portland Head Light or the Outer Banks without such nightmarish frustrations. We think it’s time that the federal student loan repayment system looked a little more like the interstate system – simple, efficient and direct – because, right now, the opposite exists. Borrowers entering into repayment of their federal student loans face a complicated menu of up to 12 repayment options. Some of these options provide benefits only if a student chooses to opt in, meaning that the most useful program isn’t necessarily the default option for that student. In addition, benefits available from one repayment program can overlap with others in different programs, leading to confusion about which option is best for the student. And this is all made worse by the fact that some programs with the same name carry substantially different terms and conditions. Confused? Welcome to the club. We think that having all of these options only increases the chance of choosing a repayment program that is suboptimal for the borrower and furthers the likelihood of missing payments or even defaulting. We also believe Congress can do better by students, which is why we’ve come together with a simple, bipartisan solution. In late July, we released that proposal as a discussion draft to get feedback from students, parents and experts across the country who want to join us in helping to make life easier on America’s recent graduates. • First, our proposal reduces the complex web of repayment options for prospective borrowers to simply two – a fixed repayment plan, in which borrowers make the same payment each month over 10 years, and a single, income-driven repayment plan, where a borrower’s monthly payment would be adjusted according to his income. This dramatic simplification of repayment programs eases the ability for students to make the choice best suited to their circumstances and would allow them to switch between the two options at any time. • Second, we address an existing loophole that allows for unlimited amounts of debt to be forgiven even for individuals who go on to high-wage jobs and don’t need this overly generous federal subsidy. Stories of hundreds of thousands of dollars being forgiven are inconsistent with the goal of the income-based repayment program, which is intended to assist needy students who borrow responsibly for college. • Under our income-driven repayment program, a student will only need to keep one number in mind when borrowing for their college education: $57,500. Students who take on less than that amount when entering our repayment program will be eligible to have the remaining loan balance forgiven after 20 years. Students who take on more than that amount – commonly for graduate education – will be eligible to have their remaining payments forgiven after 25 years. In either case, students who choose the income-driven repayment plan will have their payments capped at 15 percent of their discretionary income, and taxpayers will be saved from subsidizing overborrowing and excessive levels of loan forgiveness. • Our proposal integrates ideas from a variety of experts in the field (along with suggestions from the president) that protect the taxpayer and ensure that the programs’ benefits do not disproportionately help the wealthy or other individuals who have learned to game the current repayment system. Taxpayer exposure is dramatically decreased when these reforms are taken together – in fact, closing these loopholes is projected to save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars over the next decade. • Finally, our proposal recognizes that information on repayment options is vital. In response, we direct the secretary of education to make clear to borrowers the repayment options currently available to them, the monthly payment they could expect to pay and offer to enroll them in alternate plans if they better suit a student’s needs. Although partisan bickering about student debt can make for good theater, we believe taxpayers and students expect more from Congress. That is why we’ve put forward this bipartisan proposal that can end confusion for students and put them on the right road to dealing with loan debt. Angus King is an independent U.S. senator from Maine, and Richard Burr is a Republican U.S. senator from North Carolina. This op-ed was published by the Portland Press Herald.
09.16.2014	09.16.14 Burr, King Introduce Student Loan Repayment Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Angus King (I-Maine) introduced legislation to reform federal student loan repayment programs. Current graduates face a maze of federal student loan repayment programs from which to choose that often leave students confused about which program best fits their needs. In addition, years of ad hoc changes and expansions have done little to ensure taxpayers are likewise best served. The Repay Act, which mirrors a discussion draft released by Senators Burr and King earlier this year, addresses these issues by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into two plans: a fixed repayment plan, based on a 10-year period, and a single, simplified income-driven repayment option. “North Carolinians are tired of seeing their hard-earned tax dollars go to waste in a student loan program that serves neither their interests nor those of the college students it is intended to help,” said Senator Burr. “The Repay Act has two very simple goals: First, students should be presented with clear options on how to repay their student loan debts affordably and in a straightforward manner. Second, taxpayers should no longer subsidize the excessive borrowing and loan forgiveness that Washington has allowed to take place over the past few years. Although more can be done to address the deficiencies in our student loan programs, the Repay Act is a responsible step in the right direction toward better fiscal management of our loan programs that allows students to make well-informed decisions about borrowing for college. I look forward to advocating for the Repay Act’s inclusion in Higher Education Act as Congress continues to debate its reauthorization.” “Getting a handle on college debt after graduation is already hard enough without the red tape and maze of student loan repayments that come with it. Not only are students left with confusing repayment options, but if they default on them, then the American taxpayer is stuck footing the bill,” Senator King said. “Both deserve better. This bipartisan proposal dramatically simplifies loan repayment by consolidating many of the benefits of the existing plans, making it easier for students to decide which option best fits their needs and lowering the chance that borrowers will fall behind on their payments. It’s a win for both students and taxpayers.” The Repay Act makes loan repayment more affordable for the middle class by eliminating duplicative repayment options, streamlining eligibility terms, and ensuring that borrowers will never direct more than 15 percent of their discretionary income to their loan payments. The proposal also ends the disproportionate federal subsidization of loan payments for high income borrowers and sets parameters for the amount of debt that can be forgiven over certain periods of time. These are commonsense changes supported by broad groups of stakeholders who want to see these programs become sustainable and user-friendly. This legislation is estimated to save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars over the next decade. The senators also penned an opinion piece explaining their proposal, which was published in the Portland Press Herald today. It is available online HERE. Summary: Section 1 – The Repay Act Section 2 – Creates a new Simplified Income-Driven Repayment (SIDR) plan that— · Streamlines loan term and forgiveness schedule: o For borrowers with loan balances up to the maximum undergraduate limit prior to repayment, currently $57,500, 20 years of repayment before loan forgiveness; o For borrowers with loan balances over the $57,500 undergraduate borrowing limit prior to repayment, 25 years of repayment prior to loan forgiveness. · Creates a simple monthly calculation rate that ensures borrowers never pay more than 15% of their monthly discretionary income through the life of repayment; · Requires borrowers to make SIDR payments in order to be eligible for forgiveness; and · Calculates loan payments for households based upon household income. Section 3 – Provides for a new set of simplified repayment options, as created by the King/Burr draft, that take effect July 1, 2015. This provision requires the Secretary of Education to make clear to graduates they have the option of a standard repayment option that fully amortizes their loan balances (as provided under current law) or a Simplified Income-Driven Repayment option that caps payments at a percentage of their income and provides the option of loan balance forgiveness after 20 or 25 years (or 10 years, if eligible for Public Service Loan Forgiveness). Section 4 – Renames the existing ten-year “standard repayment plan” the “fixed repayment plan · Retains all other applicable terms and conditions of the existing ten-year repayment plan. Section 5 – Tax Provisions · Under section 437(a) of the Higher Education Act, individuals exhibiting total and permanent disabilities, defined as likely leading to death and/or complete unemployment, are eligible for student loan forgiveness. With that, however, comes the expectation of tax liability for the amount forgiven, leading to large tax bills for these disadvantaged individuals. The Repay Act would provide complete tax forgiveness for individuals exercising the Total Permanent Disability (TPD) discharge of their student loans. Section 6 – Instructs the Secretary of Education to direct federal student loan servicers to notify borrowers about the repayment plans available to them, outline the financial impact of switching to alternative repayment plans, and offer to enroll individuals in such plans, if eligible. To read more about the Repay Act, click HERE, and to see the full legislative text, click HERE.
09.16.2014	09.16.14 House Passes Child Care & Development Block Grant Program WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, the House passed legislation to improve and reauthorize the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. The Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, originally enacted as part of welfare reform of 1996, provides funds to states to promote self-sufficiency for low-income families seeking child care while a parent works or is in an educational or job training program. “I want to thank Chairman Kline for his leadership while working with us on this bipartisan legislation,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I also want to thank the rest of my House colleagues who shared in the vision that Senator Mikulski and I had over three years ago for this legislation -- that kids could have safer environments in which to stay while their parents worked and taxpayers did not continue to subsidize providers who created unsafe settings and threatened their well-being. It has been a long time coming, but I’m proud we have reached this point. I hope the Senate will swiftly agree to this legislation.” The text of the bill is available here and the press release on the bipartisan, bicameral agreement here.
09.12.2014	09.12.14 Bipartisan, Bicameral Agreement Reached to Reform Child Care & Development Block Grant Program WASHINGTON, D.C.— A bipartisan group of House and Senate leaders today announced a legislative agreement to improve and reauthorize the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. Negotiated by Representatives John Kline (R-MN), George Miller (D-CA), Todd Rokita (R-IN), and David Loebsack (D-IA), and Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and Richard Burr (R-NC), the agreement will enhance transparency, strengthen health and safety protections, and improve the quality of care. The Child Care and Development Block Grant Act provides funds to states to help low-income families pay for child care while a parent works or is in an educational or job training program. The law has not been reauthorized since 1996. Today’s bipartisan, bicameral agreement is based upon legislation introduced in 2013 by Senators Mikulski and Burr that passed the Senate earlier this year. “Over three years ago Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and I made a commitment to reauthorizing the Child Care and Development Block Grant program so that kids could have safer environments in which to stay while their parents worked and taxpayers did not continue to subsidize providers who created unsafe settings and threatened their well-being. It has been a long time coming, but I’m proud we have reached this point," said Senator Richard Burr. "I am thankful for the work of my colleagues in the Senate and the House who stood together to ensure the passage of this legislation. This legislation will positively impact the lives of millions of children and their parents.” “Every working parent with children no matter their income level worries about child care,” said Senator Mikulski. “What’s affordable? What’s accessible? Will my child be safe? Where can I get the very best care for my kid? It is not enough to simply ensure that kids have someplace to go. We must also ensure that they go someplace that is safe, that nurtures their development, that challenges their mind, and that prepares them for school. I am so pleased that the Senate and House have come together on a bipartisan basis to revitalize, refresh, and reform this vitally important program to support child care providers, give parents peace of mind, and better prepare our children for the future. It’s time to get this done for children, parents, and providers alike!” “The Child Care and Development Block Grant program is a vital lifeline for countless Americans,” said Rep. Kline, chairman of the House Education and the Workforce Committee. “Working moms and dads have pursued a career, earned a degree, or acquired new skills and training because of the support available through this program. The commonsense ideas included in this bipartisan, bicameral agreement will only strengthen our support of these working families. I want to thank my House and Senate colleagues for working together to forge this bipartisan agreement.” “For working families in Iowa and around the country, access to safe and affordable child care is essential,” said Senator Harkin, chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. “This bipartisan bill will help to ensure working parents have access to quality, affordable child care and provide rich early-learning opportunities for children, including infants and toddlers and children with disabilities. This bill is a strong example of what Congress can achieve by working together. I am encouraged by the HELP Committee’s growing record of bipartisan accomplishments and look forward to the President signing this critical bill into law.” “Every parent, regardless of their income level, deserves to know that their child is well cared-for,” said Rep. Miller, senior Democrat on the House Education and the Workforce Committee. “This bipartisan, bicameral bill improves child care access, makes critical new investments, and helps to ensure children are safe and are receiving quality care. Reliable care sets children on the path toward success in school and in the rest of their lives. While helping to prepare the next generation, good child care also supports working parents to promote greater workforce stability. These updates to CCDBG are vital for our children, our families, and our nation’s future.” “This bill helps a working Tennessee mother be able to pay for child care while she earns a degree so she can pay for it herself,” said Senator Alexander, the senior Republican on the Senate HELP Committee. “Every month, an average of 39,000 Tennessee children get child care through this program while their parents earn an education or build a career. Today’s agreement will continue success stories like the Memphis mother whose infant received care through this program while she earned a business degree and rose to assistant manager at a Walmart, enabling her to pay for the care of her second child at the same childcare center.” “For families struggling to make ends meet, quality child care is a necessity,” said Rep. Rokita. “This significant agreement strengthens a child care program that has been untouched for nearly two decades. It does so by preserving provider choice, improving transparency, and most importantly, child safety. This bill could truly save lives, and I look forward to its passage.” “As the son of a single mother, I know how important quality, affordable child care is for working families,” said Rep. Loebsack. “The Child Care Development Block Grant provides a critical lifeline to families and allows them to work or attend school with the peace of mind knowing their children are safe and well cared for. This bipartisan agreement makes long needed updates and improvements to CCDBG that will promote healthy child development and enhance quality and safety. I am pleased that both Republicans and Democrats from both the House and Senate came together to improve the lives of working families.” The bipartisan, bicameral agreement includes reforms to: Enhance parental choice by providing information about available care options from all providers, including faith-based and community-based providers, and allowing parents to choose the child care provider that best suits their family’s needs. Strengthen safety in child care settings by requiring all providers to comply with state health, safety, and fire standards and undergo annual inspections. Promote high quality child care by reserving funds at the state level to improve the quality of care provided to children, enhancing states’ ability to train providers and develop safer and more effective child care services. The text of the bill is available here.
09.11.2014	09.11.14 Bill to Increase Veterans' Benefits Passes Senate WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, legislation cosponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, passed the Senate by unanimous consent. This bipartisan legislation will increase veterans’ benefits to keep up with the cost of living. The bill would make a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) available to veterans at the same level as the increase provided to Social Security beneficiaries. This annual COLA legislation impacts veterans’ disability payments and compensation for surviving spouses and children. “There is no group of Americans to whom we owe more than our nation’s veterans, who selflessly gave themselves to defend our freedoms. It is our responsibility to ensure that we provide them with the benefits and services they need and deserve,” said Senator Burr. “I am pleased this legislation has passed the Senate and I encourage the House to swiftly act. This simple legislation is one way we can help make sure we are keeping true to our promise to our veterans and their families.” The Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2014, S. 2258, directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the rates of veterans’ compensation to keep pace with a rise in the cost-of-living, prompted by an increase in the Consumer Price Index. The legislation makes an increase available to veterans on December 1, 2014.
08.22.2014	08.22.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for the Week of August 25th Monday, August 25, 2014 11:30am - Senator Burr to visit the Nesbitt Discovery Academy 175 Bingham Rd Asheville, NC 1:00pm - Senator Burr to tour GE Aviation 401 Sweeten Creek Industrial Park Asheville, NC 2:30pm - Senator Burr to visit Continental One Quality Way Fletcher, NC 3:45pm - Senator Burr to visit Sierra Nevada 100 Sierra Nevada Way Mills River, NC Tuesday, August 26, 2014 12:30pm - Senator Burr to speak at the American Legion Convention Charlotte Convention Center 501 South College Street Charlotte, NC 1:30pm - Senator Burr to tour Kee Auto Top 1538 S Tryon St Charlotte, NC
08.08.2014	08.08.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for the Week of August 11th WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Randolph, Guilford, Moore, Scotland, Robeson, and New Hanover counties during the week of August 11, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, August 12, 2014 10:30am Senator Burr to visit Randolph Community College 629 Industrial Park Ave Asheboro, NC 12:00pmSenator Burr to speak to the Asheboro Rotary Club 247 Pinewood Road Asheboro, NC 2:15pm Senator Burr to visit Convatech 211 American Avenue Greensboro, NC Thursday, August 14, 2014 2:00pm Senator Burr to speak to the NC ESOP Association Summer Meeting Pinehurst Resort 80 Carolina Vista Drive Pinehurst, NC 4:00pm Senator Burr to tour Scotland County Small Business Innovation Center and host Business Roundtable 16800 US 401 Bypass Laurinburg, NC 28352 6:00pm Senator Burr to present Cailee Calabrese with her 3rd Level Gold Volunteer Award Thomas Family Center for Entrepreneurship 1 University Dr Pembroke, NC Friday, August 15, 2014 8:30am Senator Burr to attend a coffee hosted by the Wilmington Chamber 1 Estelle Lee Drive Wilmington, NC 10:00am Senator Burr to visit the UNCW Marine Science Center and Biotechnology Facility 5600 Marvin K. Moss Lane Wilmington, NC 11:30am Senator Burr to meet with Col Kevin Landers, Commander, Wilmington District, US Army Corps of Engineers 69 Darlington Avenue Wilmington, NC
08.04.2014	08.04.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for the Week of August 4th WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Cumberland, Henderson, and Forsyth counties during the week of August 4, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, August 5, 2014 8:00am Senator Burr to join the Defense Trade Show Breakfast Kiwanis Rec Center 352 Devers Street Fayetteville, NC 10:00amSenator Burr to co-host the Defense Trade Show Horace Sisk Building 2201 Hull Road Fayetteville, NC Wednesday, August 6, 2014 1:30pmSenator Burr to join the Land & Water Conservation Fund Press Conference 195 Hemphill Knob Road Parkway Milepost 384 Asheville, NC Thursday, August 7, 2014 8:30amSenator Burr to co-host the Aerospace Supplier and Advanced Manufacturing Summit Benton Convention Center 301 West 5th Street Winston-Salem, NC
08.01.2014	08.01.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on Legislation to Commemorate Officer Jason Crisp WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after legislation to commemorate U.S. Forest Service Officer Jason Crisp cleared the Senate last evening. Officer Crisp and his K-9 partner, Maros, lost their lives in the line of duty earlier this year. H.R. 4360, introduced by Representative Mark Meadows (R-NC), would name a facility of the United States Forest Service in the Grandfather Ranger District after Officer Crisp -- the "Jason Crisp Forest Service Building". "I am pleased the Senate passed H.R. 4360 so that we may honor a brave young man who died in service to the state of North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "Officer Crisp's service and sacrifice will not be forgotten and will be remembered with deep gratitude. My thoughts and prayers are with Officer Crisp and his family."
08.01.2014	08.01.14 Ranking Member Burr Releases Statement on VA Reform Legislation WASHINGTON D.C.- Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 3230, the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014. H.R. 3230 passed the Senate on a vote of 91-3. "I am pleased that both the House and Senate came together and voted on this crucial piece of legislation that will help begin to address some of the problems faced by the Department of Veterans Affairs," said Senator Richard Burr. "The Veterans Choice Card empowers veterans to take their healthcare into their own hands, finding care in their communities when they face long delays or distances. A veteran qualifies for the Choice Card when they are not able to be seen within the VA's wait time goals or if the veteran lives more than 40 miles from a VA facility." "Additionally, this legislation contains an important provision that I've long championed affecting veterans seeking an education. The instate tuition provision I sponsored will provide veterans with a powerful reason to attend one of our nation's many public colleges and universities and will at the same time benefit schools seeking high quality students. For years I've believed this was a no-brainer, so I'm glad Congress has finally taken this step for veterans who are transitioning to civilian life." "It is important to remember that this legislation is only the first step in rooting out a dysfunctional culture at the Department of Veterans Affairs that has persisted for far too long and ultimately took a national scandal for Congress to act. I am proud of last night's achievement, but the work continues on."
07.31.2014	07.31.14 House Ways and Means Committee Passes the ABLE Act WASHINGTON D.C.- Today, the House Ways and Means Committee approved H.R. 647, the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act of 2013, out of committee. The ABLE Act, introduced by Senators Burr (R-NC) and Casey (D-PA) in the Senate, would allow families with a severely disabled child the opportunity to save their own money in a tax-favored account, much like the 529 college savings account, to use toward covering their child's long-term expenses. Over three-quarters of the Congress has added their names to the ABLE Act as cosponsors. "I am incredibly pleased that the House Ways and Means Committee passed the ABLE Act. This legislation is a commonsense measure that would help families and disabled individuals all across the United States. It is no wonder that it has garnered an unprecedented amount of support," said Senator Burr. "It is my hope that the full House will quickly bring the ABLE Act to the floor and vote for its passage."
07.29.2014	07.29.14 VA Conference Committee Reaches Agreement on Legislation WASHINGTON D.C.- Last evening, the Veterans Affairs Conference Committee signed an agreement on legislation that would help address the systemic issues plaguing the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Ranking Member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee released the following statement. "I am pleased that the conference could come together and compromise on much needed legislation to help address the grave problems at the Department of Veteran Affairs," said Senator Richard Burr. "Our compromise will empower veterans with the Veterans Choice Card, allowing them to go outside of VA if they cannot receive care within 30 days or are more than 40 miles away from a VA facility. We extend the TBI program, which helps veterans struggling with traumatic brain injuries. Finally, we give the Secretary of VA the authority to fire VA executives for misconduct or unacceptable job performance. Our men and women in uniform should have the commitment from their nation honored - that they will be cared for and receive a standard of service befitting their great sacrifice."
07.23.2014	07.23.14 Committee Unanimously Supports Senate Confirmation of VA Nominee WASHINGTON D.C.- Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs unanimously voted to send the President's Veterans Affairs Secretary nominee, Robert McDonald, to the Senate floor for confirmation. The Ranking Member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee released the following statement. "I am pleased that Mr. McDonald's nomination moved quickly through the committee and it is my expectation he will swiftly receive Senate confirmation," said Senator Burr. "Mr. McDonald's private sector experience and his apparent will to make the drastic changes needed within the Department bolsters my confidence. Much must be done and I look forward to working with him to make sure that VA lives up to its mission."
07.15.2014	07.15.14 VA IG Witness Delivers Damning Testimony During House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Hearing WASHINGTON D.C.- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement after the testimony of Linda Halliday, witness from the VA Office of Inspector General (IG), at last evening's House Committee on Veterans' Affairs hearing. Halliday's testimony outlines many troubling issues at the Department of Veterans Affairs, including a high rate of errors in processing claims, as mentioned in an IG report released yesterday; work that does not fall under the Veterans Benefits Administration's (VBA) backlog statistic "increasing at alarming rates"; "notable weaknesses in financial stewardship"; and mis-management at regional offices. "This testimony is particularly damning, as it shows the utter dysfunction and deeply systemic problems at the Department of Veterans Affairs," said Senator Richard Burr. "I cannot see how VA can continue to claim success in their reduction of the backlog or their charge of caring for our veterans. Clearly, the Veterans Benefits Administration has not been upholding its responsibilities either to veterans or to taxpayers." Below are some of the problems outlined in Halliday's testimony: VBA's two-year-old claims initiative, including use of provisional rating decisions, was "less effective than VBA's existing rating process in providing benefits to veterans quickly." (Read press release on VA IG's report on the claims initiative here.) o VBA removed claims from the backlog once they received a provisional decision, even though more work remained to be done; this "misrepresented the actual workload of pending claims and its progress toward eliminating the overall claims backlog." o "Because VBA did not ensure existing controls were functioning as needed to effectively identify and manage provisionally rated claims, some veterans may never have received final rating decisions if not for our review." o VBA did not correctly process about 31 percent of claims handled through this initiative, because regional offices "felt pressured to complete these claims within VBA's 60-day deadline." This is estimated to have resulted in $40 million in improper payments. VBA's focus on reducing the backlog of disability claims came at the expense of other work. o "Although VBA's reported backlog has decreased by over 50 percent since March 2013, other workloads such as appeals management and benefit reductions have had significant corresponding increases." o The appeals workload "has continued to grow at an alarming rate." VBA has not been timely processing benefit offsets when Guard/Reservists concurrently receive drill pay and VA compensation. In total, VA could recover a total of over $623 million in improper payments. VBA is not properly following up on cases where veterans had been assigned a temporary 100 percent disability rating, primarily because staff do not timely schedule medical re-examinations once the factor requiring the temporary rating has ended. o The IG noted that VBA's response to their prior recommendations about temporary ratings has been "unacceptable and raises major concerns over VBA's willingness to reduce its risk of improper payments." o This could lead VBA to make $371 million in improper payments over 5 years. VBA continues to make significant processing errors with regard to disability claims for traumatic brain injury. Claims processing employees were using inadequate medical examinations to rate these claims because of "pressure to meet production requirements." The Fiduciary hub in Indianapolis is not timely processing allegations of fiduciaries mis-using beneficiary funds, conducting field examinations, and processing incoming mail. Without proper oversight, "the general health and well-being of beneficiaries are placed at increased and unnecessary risk." Of 200 files reviewed, 46 percent of students using Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits in 2013 experienced delays in approval of their original claims; 18 percent experienced delays in receiving the housing allowance and book stipend; and 20 percent received improper payments. Over 5 years, VBA may make $205 million in inaccurate payments. In 2013, VBA accurately processed only 69 percent of claims handled through its Quick Start program for separating servicemembers. In June 2014, the IG received information that the Philadelphia regional office was "cooking the books" by manipulating the date recorded for when a claim was filed. o The IG found some instances where staff were inputting more recent dates than when the claim arrived, which made the average number of days claims had been pending appear better than it was. o The IG also found bins of claims and evidence that had not been scanned into their systems since 2011. o The IG found instances where veterans received duplicate payments because of duplicate records in VBA's electronic system; management was aware of this on-going problem, but did not consider it a priority to correct it. In June 2014, the IG received information from VA that a Baltimore regional office employee had 8,000 documents and 80 claims folders inappropriately kept in his office. VA later found 1,500 additional documents inappropriately held by 7 other employees. In July 2014, the IG identified an employee at the Los Angeles regional office who was incorrectly recording that actions such as ordering medical examinations had been taken, when they had not.
07.14.2014	07.14.14 New IG Report Finds VA Manipulating Claims Data WASHINGTON D.C.- Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (IG) released a report on the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) two-year-old claim initiative. This initiative was purportedly started by the Department to process long-pending claims more quickly, in part by issuing provisional decisions in cases where more evidence was required. The latest report was requested by several senators, including U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, who offered the following statement. "This latest IG report confirms that VA's 'fix' to its backlog process was just smoke and mirrors and another example of VA manipulating the data to make it appear as if veterans are being well served," said Senator Burr. "It is absolutely shameful that a department charged with the care of our nation's veterans would choose to resort to practices that negatively affect them and inaccurately portray the VA's workload." Findings of the latest IG report include: Use of provisional ratings "allowed claims to be denied more quickly" but did not help provide benefits to veterans any more quickly o The Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) "actually created a new practice that adversely affected some veterans" o Some employees told the IG that "provisional ratings were a bad idea and negatively impacted veterans" "VBA created procedures involving provisional ratings that were inconsistent with existing workload practices and misrepresented VBA's workload statistics and progress towardsliminating the claims backlog" o Removing claims from the backlog after a provisional decision was issued led to VA inaccurately reporting several performance metrics, including the number of pending claims, the time it took to complete claims, the number of claims VA completed, and the average time claims were pending VBA did not place a priority on finishing claims that had received provisional decisions; VBA was focusing on claims still counted in the backlog VBA "did not have a way to guarantee they identified all provisional ratings to process the further actions needed." VBA did not accurately process 83 percent of provisional decisions in the sample reviewed by the IG and did not accurately process 23 percent of the 2-year-old claims that received final decisions under this initiative o Errors occurred because employees "felt pressured to complete the Special Initiative claims within VBA's 60-day processing deadline" o Some regional offices stopped quality reviews for these claims because of pressure to meet the deadline You can read the full VA Inspector General report here.
07.09.2014	07.09.14 Senator Burr Offers Amendment to Protect Corolla Wild Horses WASHINGTON- Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) offered an amendment to the Sportsmen's bill to provide for the responsible management of the wild-horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. The Burr amendment is the same as HR. 126, the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on June 3, 2013. "The Corolla wild horses are one of the many natural treasures of our state, and people travel from across North Carolina and the country to witness these wild horses in their natural habitat," said Senator Richard Burr. "I am proud to introduce this amendment that will provide for the care and management of these wild-roaming horses and give local organizations and authorities the tools they need to manage these horses without excessive federal involvement. We have waited far too long for action on this issue, so I hope Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) will finally allow a vote on my amendment --protecting the Corolla horses is important to sportsmen and all who love wildlife." The Burr amendment would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of North Carolina, Currituck County and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to craft a new management plan to care for the wild horses that inhabit the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The plan would allow the herd to grow to the size found by equine scientists to be necessary to maintain genetic viability - between 110 and 130 horses. The Corolla wild horses are unique to North Carolina and do not exist anywhere else in the world. Their lineage can be traced back to the arrival of Spanish explorers on the Outer Banks in the 16th century. They are Colonial Spanish mustangs that have survived in the wild for the last four centuries and now roam across Currituck County, North Carolina. This legislation is supported by The Humane Society and American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
07.08.2014	07.08.14 Senator Burr Offers Amendment to Ensure Access to Outer Banks Beaches WASHINGTON- Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) offered an amendment to S. 2363, the Bipartisan Sportsmen's Act of 2014, that would help tourists and sportsmen gain access to North Carolina's renowned Outer Banks beaches. The amendment would set rules and parameters for the National Park Service (NPS) to abide by when they consider limiting citizen access to beaches, including off-road vehicle (ORV) access. The Burr amendment is identical to S. 486, which passed unanimously through the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources on June 18, 2013. "Federal restrictions on beach access have hurt North Carolina and local businesses along the Cape Hatteras National Seashore for years - it has done damage to our local communities and our local economy," Senator Burr said. "We must ensure that North Carolinians and tourists from around the country have access to North Carolina's scenic treasures, and the Sportsmen's bill offers the perfect opportunity to address this pressing issue once and for all. Over a year ago, the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources reached a compromise that was a critical step forward in the effort to allow people to have access to our beaches while at the same time addressing any potential environmental concerns. It is my hope that we can take up this amendment and allow the Senate a chance to finally vote on it." The parameters set by the Burr amendment would direct the NPS to minimize buffers on protected areas and keep them in place for the shortest possible duration necessary, designate pedestrian and vehicle corridors around areas that are closed, coordinate with the State of North Carolina when establishing certain buffers, and allow for a public process when considering limiting access in special situations. The amendment also directs the NPS to construct vehicle access points and roads as expeditiously as possible and report its progress to Congress within one year of the act becoming law. The House version of this amendment, introduced by Congressman Walter Jones, was included in H.R. 2954, the Public Access and Lands Improvement Act. That bill was passed by the House of Representatives in a bipartisan vote earlier this year. Groups including the American Sportfishing Association and Congressional Sportsmen Foundation are supporters of S. 486.
07.04.2014	07.04.14 Fourth of July Message Every year, we look forward to the Fourth of July holiday as an opportunity to celebrate with family and friends by grilling out, enjoying the warm weather, and viewing the community fireworks display.However, as we enjoy the day of fun, we must not let the significance of our nation's birthday escape us. Two hundred and thirty-eight years ago our Founding Fathers signed the Declaration of Independence.By signing the Declaration, a new nation was established, ruled by the people and for the people.Through the hard work and sacrifices made by the generations before us, I can confidently say we live in a great country. Let's take a moment this holiday weekend to celebrate our freedoms and reflect on those who paved the way for our nation. We give thanks to the brave men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice to protect our liberty and our way of life, and we pray for those who are currently in harm's way serving our nation.May God keep safe those serving at home and abroad on this holiday. God bless you all and may God bless the United States of America. Happy Fourth of July.
06.30.2014	06.30.14 Senator Burr’s Statement on White House Nomination of Robert McDonald WASHINGTON- Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after President Obama announced that he will nominate Robert McDonald as Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs. "The Department of Veterans Affairs needs a leader that will be able to address the deeply rooted, systemic issues in the organization, while also working with Congress to implement legislative solutions and provide oversight. I look forward to working with Mr. McDonald as he goes through the confirmation process and hearing what he has in mind for repairing and reforming the VA."
06.30.2014	06.30.14 Senator Burr Statement on Burwell v. Hobby Lobby SCOTUS Decision WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court decided to uphold Americans' religious freedom in this morning's ruling on Burwell v. Hobby Lobby. "Today's ruling is an affirmation of what we've known all along - that Obamacare is a massive federal overreach into Americans' private lives. I am pleased that the Court sided with conscience."
06.27.2014	06.27.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for the Week of July 1 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Forsyth, Wilkes, Surry, and Wake counties during the week of July 1, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, July 1, 2014 1:30pm Senator Burr to visit Southside United Health Center 3009 Waughtown St. Winston-Salem, NC 27107 Wednesday, July 2, 2014 10:30amSenator Burr to visit Brushy Mountain Bee Farm Wood Working Shop 1204 Industrial Drive Wilkesboro, NC 1:00pm Senator Burr to visit Pittsburgh Glass Works 300 PGW Drive Elkin, NC 2:30pm Senator Burr to visit Skull Camp Brewery 2000 North Bridge Street Elkin, NC Thursday, July 3, 2014 10:30amSenator Burr to visit US Veterans Corps Headquarters 104A Woodwinds Industrial Court Cary, NC 27511
06.23.2014	06.23.14 Burr, King Propose Plan for Bipartisan Student Loan Repayment Reform WASHINGTON- Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) are sharing with the public a discussion draft that would reform federal student loan repayment programs. Graduates today face a maze of federal student loan repayment programs from which to choose that often leave students confused about which programs best fits their needs. Furthermore, through years of ad hoc changes and expansions outside of Congressional authorization, little has been done to ensure taxpayers are likewise best served. The King/Burr Discussion Draft addresses these issues by consolidating many of the benefits of current repayment programs into a single simplified income-based repayment option. This bipartisan plan proposes to make loan repayment more affordable for the middle class by eliminating duplicative repayment options, streamlining eligibility terms, and ensuring that borrowers will never direct more than 15 percent of their discretionary income to their loan payments. The proposal also ends the disproportionate federal subsidization of loan payments for high income borrowers and sets parameters for the amount of debt that can be forgiven over certain periods of time. These are commonsense changes supported by broad groups of stakeholders who want to see these programs become sustainable and user-friendly. "Senator King and I are introducing this discussion draft instead of legislation so we can receive feedback from the public - student borrowers, our Congressional colleagues, experts in the field, or anyone else who can bring to the table thoughtful discussion on how to best help our students,"said Senator Burr."I understand how daunting it can be to finish school and face the uncertainty of unemployment, on top of the anxiety of how to repay student loans. It is my hope that we will receive robust feedback in the coming months to better this draft and inform Congress as we begin Higher Education Act reauthorization efforts." "Student borrowers already have more than enough to worry about after they graduate without having to wrap their heads around the confusing maze of federal loan repayment options," Senator King said. "That's why Senator Burr and I are offering this discussion draft as a concrete first step towards simplifying these programs. Students ought to be able to easily navigate their options, make a choice that best serves their needs, and keep money in their pockets. I look forward to hearing feedback from students, parents, my colleagues, and experts across the country as we look at ways to improve college affordability in America." Summary: Section 1 - Bill Title Section 2 - Creates a new Simplified Income-Driven Repayment plan that— Streamlines loan term and forgiveness schedule: o For borrowers with loan balances of up to $57,500 prior to repayment, 20 years ofrepayment before loan forgiveness;
06.19.2014	06.19.14 BURR, KAINE, BLUMENTHAL INTRODUCE RESOLUTION TO “WELCOME HOME” POST-9/11 VETERANS ON VETERANS DAY WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R- NC), Ranking Member on the Veterans Affairs Committee, Tim Kaine (D-VA), a member of the Armed Services and Foreign Relations Committees, and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), a member of the Armed Services and Veterans Affairs Committees,introduced a resolution to recognize Veterans Day, November 11, 2014, as a special "Welcome Home" commemoration for all who have served in the military since Congress passed the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force. The bipartisan resolution, which has received endorsements from the American Legion, Vietnam Veterans of America, and Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), will encourage American communities to plan activities for Veterans Day 2014 to honor all post-9/11 veterans, as well as those who continue to serve in Afghanistan in a training and assistance role, and promote awareness of their contributions to our nation. Since Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force in September 2001, more than two million men and women have served in Iraq and Afghanistan - many serving multiple deployments. As of today, 6,819 Americans have been killed in these conflicts, and 52,037 have been wounded. "Every November 11th as a nation we take time to honor our veterans and reflect upon their service. These men and women selflessly give of themselves to defend our freedoms, and we are constantly humbled by their strength and courage," said Senator Burr. "This year we would like to recognize our veterans who have served post 9/11 in a special "Welcome Home" tribute. It is my hope that the Senate will swiftly pass this bipartisan resolution so communities around our great nation can plan events for our post 9/11 warriors." "Let's make Veterans Day 2014 a special welcome home for all who have served in the Iraq and Afghanistan post-9/11 era. Let's shine a light and say thank you for the sacrifice and work that's been done by this generation that's been at war for 13 years," said Senator Kaine. "The nation owes them a lot. We owe them a fixed VA system. But we also owe them that moment that recognizes the end of this chapter with the thank you that is appropriate for what they've done for our nation." "Heroes of the longest armed conflict in American history deserve heartfelt gratitude for their service and sacrifice," Senator Blumenthal said. "We must honor and celebrate them - with this resolution, and a simple 'thank you' every day." "The American Legion applauds you for the priority you are placing on this nation's service members and veterans by sponsoring this Post 9/11 Veterans Welcome Home Resolution," wrote Daniel M. Dellinger, National Commander of the American Legion. "With the U.S. war in Iraq complete and U.S. direct military operations in Afghanistan to end in 2014, it is entirely appropriate, as this resolution calls for, to encourage American communities across this great land to plan activities for Veterans Day 2014 to honor and support all who have served during these wars and to provide citizens of the United States an opportunity to present unified recognition of the service and sacrifice of post-9/11 veterans." Please see attached for resolution text. A fact sheet is available HERE.
06.17.2014	06.17.14 VA Inspector General Reveals Additional Systemic Problems in Veterans’ Benefits WASHINGTON- On June 6thand June 10th, the VA Inspector General (IG) released two new reports that further illustrate the failings of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). The June 6threport outlined the results of the IG's audit of VBA's use of temporary 100% disability ratings. The June 10threport outlines the results of a routine inspection of the regional office in Reno, Nevada. "These reports are an indicator of an alarming practice at the Veterans Benefits Administration -- make a few statistics look better but ignore overall service to veterans. We've been raising the alarm for a while that the VA has been allowing work that isn't included in VA's narrow "backlog" statistic to pile up, including appeals and award adjustments that can impact a veteran's bottom line and overall care," said Senator Burr. "But, these reports suggest that the scope of work the VA has been ignoring may be even greater, including training, quality assurance measures, and steps to ensure program integrity. So, is the drop in the VA's backlog all just smoke and mirrors?" The IG's June 6th report was a follow up to the 2011 report that looked into the accuracy of processing temporary 100% disability ratings. VBA assigns a temporary 100% rating when a veteran is recovering from surgery or undergoing intensive treatment for a service-related disability that otherwise would be rated less than 100% disabling. VA is later supposed to re-evaluate the veteran and determine what disability rating is warranted based on any residual disabilities. In 2011, the IG found that VBA was not monitoring and re-evaluating these temporary ratings. In this follow-up audit, the IG had two key findings: · "VBA's corrective actions have not fully addressed our concern that the financial stewardship of these claims remains weak and vulnerable to processing benefit payments in excess of veterans' eligibility where medical conditions may be improved" · "VBA has not established an adequate plan to ensure regional offices . . . conduct a timely review of their temporary 100 percent disability evaluations" and, "[w]ithout management attention, VBA could overpay these veterans a projected $371 million over the next 5 years." To read the June 6th report, click here. On June 10th, the IG released the results of a routine inspection of the regional office in Reno, Nevada. The report found that the Reno office was not being timely when following up on cases where veterans had been assigned temporary 100% disability ratings. Leadership from VBA had instructed staff to work on specific claims and did not include instructions regarding doing re-examinations for veterans who had temporary 100% ratings. Reno VA employees were also incorrectly processing claims for traumatic brain injury (TBI), in part because they were relying on insufficient medical examinations and had discontinued quality assurance steps for these claims "due to other organizational priorities." Also contributing to this lack of knowledge is inadequate training of staff. The IG found that, since 2011, only one individual in the office had completed training on how to process TBI claims. Due to lack of training, Reno staff also was not appropriately awarding special monthly compensation and ancillary benefits to veterans with severe disabilities and employees were unable to recall the last time they received training on how to process these benefits. Finally, the IG found that the Reno office was not being timely in their processing of benefit reductions. When a veteran's service-related condition improves, VBA is supposed to begin the process for reducing the veteran's disability rating. However, in April 2014, VBA removed the requirement that regional offices take immediate action to reduce disability ratings after due process requirements are met and did not provide clear guidance on how to prioritize this work. Again, VBA management had given the office directions to work on specific types of cases, which did not encompass these benefit reductions. As a result, the office "did not view this workload as a priority." To read the June 10th report, click here. To learn more about the Veterans Benefits Administration, click here.
06.05.2014	06.05.14 Bipartisan Agreement Reached on Legislation to Address Crisis at VA Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement following news of a bipartisan agreement on legislation to address the crisis at the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). "I am pleased that a bipartisan agreement has been reached on legislation to address the crisis at VA. Veterans should not have the care they deserve and need waylaid by partisan bickering. The issues at the VA are systemic and deeply rooted in the agency's culture, so it will take both parties working together, along with VSOs, VA officials, and veterans themselves to get VA back to its core mission - serving veterans. I would like to thank Senator McCain and Senator Coburn for their hard work and contributions."
06.04.2014	06.04.14 AMERICAN LEGION, IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN VETERANS OF AMERICA (IAVA), AMVETS, AND CONCERNED VETERANS FOR AMERICA (CVA) ENDORSE VETERANS CHOICE ACT Four Veteran Service Organizations join 25 cosponsors in support of legislation that would provide veterans choice and flexibility in medical care Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), John McCain (R-AZ), Tom Coburn (R-OK), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today announced that four veterans service organizations (VSOs) - American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), AMVETS, and Concerned Veterans for America (CVA) - have endorsed the Veterans Choice Act. The bill has also acquired 25 cosponsors since it was introduced yesterday. Below are excerpts from the VSOs' letters of support for the legislation: "On behalf of the 2.4 million members of The American Legion, I would like to express our support for The Veterans Choice Act. This measure provides resources now to assist veterans being denied health care by lengthy wait times." - Daniel Dellinger, National Commander of the American Legion "This bill will serve an immediate need to increase VA service capacity by temporarily authorizing veterans to get quicker care from approved private and community providers if the VA cannot provide medical care to the veteran within a reasonable amount of time set by the VA or if the veteran would have to travel beyond a reasonable distance to receive VA care." - Paul Rieckhoff, CEO and Founder of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) "[W]e heartily offer our support for your legislation, the Veterans Choice Act of 2014, which would give veterans increased health care choices and flexibility, improve transparency at the VA, and provide cultural changes within the VA, while simultaneously preserving the integrity of the overall VA health care system."- Diane Zumatto, National Legislative Director of AMVETS National Legislative Director "CVA believes the Veterans Choice Act is the best piece of legislation available to change the culture at VA...." - Pete Hegseth, CEO of Concerned Veterans for America (CVA) Additional co-sponsors of the Veterans Choice Act include Senators Isakson, Inhofe, Grassley, Roberts, Hoeven, Coats, Barrasso, Johanns, Rubio, Cornyn, Alexander, Kirk, Wicker, Fischer, Toomey, Portman, Enzi, Boozman, Moran, Thune, Scott, and Graham. The Veterans Choice Act provides veterans with more choice and flexibility, while bringing much-needed accountability and transparency to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Full text of the legislation is available here and a section-by-section summary is here. Full text of the letters: American Legion Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) AMVETS Concerned Veterans for America (CVA)
06.03.2014	06.03.14 Senators Richard Burr, John McCain, Tom Coburn, and Jeff Flake Introduce the Veterans Choice Act Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), John McCain (R-AZ), Tom Coburn (R-OK), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today introduced the Veterans Choice Act to address the most pressing issues raised by the continuing VA scandal by providing veterans with greater choice and flexibility in health care providers and increasing accountability and transparency at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). According to the VA Inspector General (IG) report issued last week, 42 VA medical facilities across the nation are now under investigation, and delays in care and manipulation of records are "systemic throughout" the VA, including waiting times in Phoenix averaging 115 days for initial primary care - more than four times the previously reported average of 24 days. Most disturbing, the IG found that some 1,700 veterans waiting for primary care appointments were never placed on the Phoenix VA's electronic wait list, and according to the report, "these veterans continue to be at risk of being forgotten or lost in Phoenix HCS's convoluted scheduling process." "It's clear with the evidence we now have that veterans had a lack of access to needed care, even in the past few years when VA carried over money," said Senator Richard Burr. "This is a cultural problem with deep roots in VA, and money will not solve cultural problems. In fact, it could prove to only reinforce that culture. The legislation we are introducing today will address these problems head on by getting veterans the appointments they need from the doctor of their choice, providing the transparency needed to do an apples-to-apples comparison with non-VA hospitals, and start reforming the system and changing the culture to ensure no veteran ever again dies while waiting for the care they need." "As I've long argued, we must provide for veterans without timely access to VA facilities the option of using high-quality health care providers near their homes, rather than rely on a system which is too often riddled with dysfunction," said Senator John McCain. "This legislation increases veterans' flexibility to get the care they've earned, while bringing much-needed accountability and transparency to create a VA worthy of the heroes it serves." "It is wrong to ask our soldiers to fight for freedom abroad only to deny it to them here at home," said Dr. Tom Coburn. "We should allow veterans to go to the doctor, and health care facility, of their choice rather than allowing politicians and bureaucrats to decide where they can receive health care. In America, every hospital should be a veterans' hospital. Our bill makes that possible." "While the national scandal involving scheduling irregularities in VA facilities around the country deserves swift attention, and those responsible need to be held accountable, we cannot take our focus off the fact that there are still veterans awaiting care," said Senator Jeff Flake. "Instead of lengthy wait times or secret lists, this legislation provides much-needed flexibility for veterans to get the care they need in a timely fashion." The Veterans Choice Act provides veterans with more choice and flexibility, while bringing much-needed accountability and transparency to VA operations. This legislation will provide: CHOICE: Provide veterans' flexibility and choice in medical providers: All veterans enrolled for care at VA will receive a Choice Card to allow them to receive care from a non-VA provider If VA cannot schedule an appointment for a veteran within their wait time performance metrics or the veteran resides more than 40 miles from any VA medical center (VAMC) or Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC), then the veteran can exercise their choice to receive care from the doctor or provider of their choice Requires VA to abide by the Department of Treasury's Prompt Pay rule; to contract using Medicare prices; and any co-pay a veteran would pay goes to the VA Authorized for two years following VA's implementation of the program TRANSPARENCY: Increase transparency in VA operations: Directs VA to publish on each VA medical center (VAMC) website the current wait time for an appointment, current wait-time goals, and to improve their "Our Providers" link to include where a provider completed their residency and whether the provider is in residency. Directs VA to establish a publicly-available database of patient safety, quality of care, and outcome measures. Directs VA to report to the Department of Health and Human Services the same patient quality and outcome information as other non-VA hospitals. Directs Veterans Health Administration to provide veterans with the credentials of a provider prior to surgery. CHANGE: Tighten accountability on VA operations: Provides the VA Secretary the authority to demote or fire Senior Executive Service employees based on performance. (Includes the VA Management Accountability Act H.R. 4031/S. 2013, passed by 390-33 in the House of Representatives) Removes scheduling and wait time metrics/goals as factors to determine performance monetary awards or bonuses. Directs VA to establish policy outlining penalties and procedures for employees knowingly falsify data on wait times and quality measures, including civil penalties, unpaid suspensions, or termination. Directs VA to modify performance plans of the directors of VA medical centers (VAMC) and Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) to ensure they are be based on overall quality of care that veterans receive. Directs VA to consider reviews from the Joint Commission; the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities; IG Combined Assessment Program reviews, CBOC reviews, and Healthcare Inspections; and the number and outcomes of administrative investigation boards, root cause analysis, and peer reviews in assessing the performance of VAMC and VISN directors. Full text of the legislation is available here and a section-by-section summary is here. The Veterans Choice Act is supported by American Legion, AMVETS, and Concerned Veterans for America.
05.30.2014	05.30.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on Secretary Shinseki's Resignation WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement following news of Secretary Shinseki's resignation from the Department of Veterans Affairs: "I know this was a difficult decision for a decorated veteran. Secretary Shinseki built a career on tackling the tough challenges placed in front of him, and I thank him for his long and distinguished service to our nation. However, it was the right decision, as new leadership was needed at the agency. Along with new leadership, Congress must act to empower veterans facing unacceptable wait times at the VA with choice." "It must be reiterated that this problem is not about Phoenix but about the entire VA system and this one resignation will not solve the problem. This is not new, not contained within one facility, and not just about secret waitlists. We have a long, well documented history of reports from Inspector General, Government Accountability Office, and the Medical Inspector about the disturbing problems within the Department. The steps that have been taken by Secretary Shinseki to freeze bonuses and fire individuals at the Phoenix facility has done nothing to address the other 41 facilities currently under active investigation." "I look forward to working with Acting Secretary Sloan Gibson in his efforts to chart a new course for this troubled agency, and put it to work for all veterans."
05.28.2014	05.28.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on Veterans' Life Center WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement on the recent federal grant to establish the Veterans' Life Center in Butner, North Carolina. "I am incredibly pleased to know that the Veterans' Life Center is going to become a reality. The announcement of the grant to fund the first stage of this worthwhile veterans' project marks a major milestone toward building a safe harbor where North Carolina's homeless and at risk veterans can get the comprehensive support, counseling, and life skills they need to become self-reliant. This grant would not have been awarded without the inspiring and relentless efforts of the Veterans Leadership Council of North Carolina and their many advocates and supporters. Their success is a testament to how a small and dedicated group of veterans can help address some of the toughest challenges their fellow veterans are facing and bring government and citizens together to accomplish that important mission." You can read more about the Veterans' Life Center here.
05.23.2014	05.23.14 Senator Burr Releases an Open Letter to America’s Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans'Affairs, released the following open letter to America's veterans: May 23, 2014 To the Nation's Veterans, Over the course of the last few weeks, there has been a great deal of media coverage—rightly so—of the still-unfolding story coming out of the Department of Veterans Affairs regarding secret wait lists and other problems related to appointment scheduling at VA facilities. Last week, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs heard from Secretary Shinseki, representatives of some of the Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs), and others. While a great deal of the media coverage of the hearing has focused on what Secretary Shinseki said, and didn't say, much less has been seen of the testimony of the VSOs that testified. I wanted to take a brief moment to comment on that testimony. First and foremost, I must recognize and commend the American Legion, National Commander Dan Dellinger, and the American Legion team for taking a principled stand, before the hearing and during it, and calling for leadership change at the VA. It is clear that the Legion has been listening to its membership about the challenges they face in gaining access to care, and has reached the conclusion that "enough is enough" and the status quo is indefensible. The Legion's membership has much to be proud of with the organization they support. Regrettably, the Legion was alone among the VSOs that testified in taking such a stand. It became clear at the hearing that most of the other VSOs attending appear to be more interested in defending the status quo within VA, protecting their relationships within the agency, and securing their access to the Secretary and his inner circle. But to what end? What use is their access to senior VA staff, up to and including the Secretary, if they do not use their unprecedented access to a Cabinet Secretary to secure timely access to care for their membership? What hope is there for change within the VA if those closest to the agency don't use that proximity for the good of veterans across our country? I believe the national and local commanders of every VSO have the interests of their members at heart, and take seriously their commitment to their members and their organization. Unfortunately, I no longer believe that to be the case within the Washington executive staff of the VSOs that testified. Last week's hearing made it clear to me that the staff has ignored the constant VA problems expressed by their members and is more interested in their own livelihoods and Washington connections than they are to the needs of their own members. I fear that change within the VA will not be possible unless and until these organizations also reconsider their role as well as the nature of their relationship with VA. Sincerely, Richard Burr United States Senator
05.22.2014	05.22.14 Senate VA Committee GOP Request Oversight Hearings WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans'Affairs, Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mike Johanns (R-NE), Jerry Moran (R-KS), John Boozman (R-AR), and Dean Heller (R-NV) signed a letter calling on Chairman Sanders of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs to hold several oversight hearings on numerous topics including, but not limited to, the Veterans Health Administration, the quality of VA healthcare, and the integrity of the VA's data and performance metrics. It is critical that the Committee begin to conduct aggressive oversight to fully understand the problems that the Department of Veterans Affairs faces today. Many of these problems have already been identified through numerous reports by the Government Accountability Office, the VA Office of Inspector General, and the Office of Special Counsel. Minority members and staff have requested multiple oversight hearings since the beginning of the 113th Congress with none of the requested hearings taking place and no response. Oversight is a critical part of the mission of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, which was echoed by the President's remarks yesterday: Congress "has an important oversight role … not just to address the current controversies, but to make sure we're doing right by our veterans across the board." The minority members of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs request a swift response and the scheduling of several oversight hearings as soon as possible. "It is obvious from the recent VA scandals that the Department desperately needs vigorous oversight," said Senator Burr. "It is our mission as a committee to provide oversight and yet the Chairman has chosen to ignore requests for hearings. My fellow minority members and I hope that this letter will be heard and acted on swiftly." "From the unacceptable backlog of disability claims to the allegations of inappropriate scheduling practices leading to delayed care, the Department of Veterans Affairs has persistently failed to meet the needs of our nation's veterans," said Senator Isakson. "It is time for the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee to perform the aggressive oversight necessary so that we uphold our commitment to our veterans, especially when we know demand on the VA will only grow." "From claim backlogs to delayed care, it is painfully evident the VA is in need of reform and the bright light only transparency can bring," Senator Johanns said. "It's our duty as a county and as members of this committee to ensure our military heroes are receiving the best care available. In light of recent allegations that potentially led to the deaths of veterans, this department has certainly earned a spot under a very intense oversight microscope." "Our veterans too often face hurdles to receiving the care and the attention they need. It is the responsibility of Congress to determine what can be done to resolve these problems. That begins with rigorous oversight. Our veterans are relying on us to accomplish this basic role and I am willing to work with my colleagues in both chambers to achieve this," Senator Boozman said. "We have a duty to make certain our veterans receive the highest quality of care they deserve from a Department of Veterans Affairs worthy of their service and sacrifice. As the instances of systemic dysfunction and lack of leadership at the VA continue to mount, we do not need more damage control - we need to eliminate the damage being done to our nation's veterans. These hearings are an important step toward resolving the problems at the VA and keeping our promise to those who served our country," said Senator Moran. "When our men and women in uniform volunteered their service, our nation promised them important benefits. As a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, I believe that we must do more to make sure this promise is kept," said Senator Heller. "I hope that our colleagues on the Committee will allow for oversight hearings that will help hold the VA accountable. Time and again, we have asked our men and women in uniform to answer the call to duty, and they do so without hesitation. Ensuring veterans receive disability benefits and quality VA medical care in a timely manner is the least we can do to thank them for their service." The full text of the letter is below: May 22, 2014 The Honorable Bernie Sanders Chairman Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs 418 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Sanders, At the beginning of the 113th Congress, the minority staff provided your office with a number of possible oversight hearing topics on ongoing issues at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). To date, none of the hearings we requested have occurred. In fact, during this Congress, the Committee has held only seven oversight hearings, which did not even begin to address the issues facing the Department. Mr. Chairman, the problems that have been identified through Government Accountability Office, VA Office of Inspector General, Office of Special Counsel, and now countless media reports warrant significant, comprehensive oversight action from this Committee. As we heard from the President yesterday, Congress "has an important oversight role … not just to address the current controversies, but to make sure we're doing right by our veterans across the board." As we have previously stated, the Committee has held a limited number of hearings on the issues faced by the Department. With the recent revelations and investigations occurring at nearly 30 facilities, it is even more critical that this Committee conducts the necessary oversight to begin to take urgently needed action on reforms at VA. We are writing today to request that the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs hold oversight hearings on the following topics: Overall effectiveness of the Veterans Health Administration structure; VA's construction program; Mechanisms used to determine quality of VA healthcare; Effectiveness of VISN headquarter operations and structure; Overall effectiveness of the Veterans Benefits Administration structure; Claims backlog initiatives including the effectiveness of the Quick Start Program and two-year old claims initiative; Treatment of whistleblowers; Integrity of VA's data and metrics; Uses of bonuses and performance awards; Moving VA into the 21st Century, including the future of VistA and VA's scheduling package; Future priorities of the VA; VA's rating schedule; and, Employment programs at VA. It is clear to us that the Department needs vigorous oversight to correctly identify the problems and foster top-down reforms. It is further clear to us that this Committee cannot inform its legislative efforts without gaining as full an understanding as possible of the current shortcomings at VA. Our nation's veterans do not deserve to wait to receive their benefits and/or needed health care services from the Department of Veterans Affairs. This Committee must conduct aggressive oversight to ensure they receive the care they need when they need it. Sincerely,
05.22.2014	05.22.14 Senator Burr Announces Event for Friday, May 23 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Durham on Friday, May 23rd. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Friday, May 23, 2014 10:00am Senator Burr to attend the Durham VA Research Building ribbon cutting 508 Fulton Street Durham, NC 27705
05.22.2014	05.22.14 GOP Senators Welcome Administration’s Major Reversal on Electronic Health Records Deadlines After repeated calls from GOP senators, doctors and hospitals, the administration overhauls deadlines for stimulus bill’s electronic health records program WASHINGTON - Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) welcomed the administration's reversal this week on electronic health records deadlines, after officials earlier this year refused to grant providers additional time to comply with regulations as groups nationwide requested. In a proposed rule released Tuesday night, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) said it would give hospitals and physicians an extra year to implement new regulatory requirements for electronic health records, providing necessary relief for providers across the country struggling to meet the administration's timeline for adopting new health IT regulatory requirements. The Senators and 11 of their colleagues asked for this relief in a September 24, 2013 letter and expressed their disappointment that it had not yet been granted in a March 6, 2014 letter. The senators first warned CMS about failures in their April 2013 report Reboot: Re-Examining the Strategies Needed to Successfully Implement Health IT. "As with most programs in the stimulus, the funds for the electronic health records program were rushed out with little foresight," Alexander said. "We heard from groups representing nearly every hospital and doctor in America that this program was at risk of failure and could put providers out of business. I am relieved that the administration has changed its mind and decided to allow more time for providers to make this work." Thune said: "Since last year, I have been calling for CMS to listen to the providers and hospitals that are facing challenges in meeting unrealistic deadlines and rules in the EHR meaningful use program. I am pleased the administration has finally listened and I look forward to working with CMS and stakeholders to ensure that transitions to electronic health records are done effectively and efficiently." "I am pleased that the Administration finally appears to have taken to heart the need for providers to have more time to make the program work," Burr said. "Billions of taxpayer dollars are being spent to advance health information technology under the HITECH Act, and we need to ensure that taxpayer funds are not being wasted." Enzi said: "When federal bureaucrats design something on paper without listening to those affected, unrealistic goals can be the result. I'm pleased the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services finally decided to listen to us and give the people impacted by these requirements the time they need." "Despite their best efforts, I continue to hear from physicians and hospitals across the state of Kansas concerned that they cannot meet the Stage 2 regulations of the electronic health records meaningful use program," Roberts said. "I am pleased the Administration has finally heeded our warning and granted this relief to our health care providers." Health care providers across the country are struggling to meet the requirements of Stage 2 of the electronic health records (EHR) meaningful use program, which demands costly, complicated, and time-consuming technology upgrades by a 2014 deadline. In September 2013, the senators sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius requesting additional time for providers. The administration initially refused that request, and instead announced it would grant narrow hardship exemptions. The senators sent a letter in March expressing disappointment in the decision and asking for details on how the exemptions plan could possibly address such widespread difficulty in meeting the deadlines. In the March letter to Marilyn Tavenner, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the senators noted that close to 50 provider groups representing nearly every hospital, doctor, and vendor organization in America warned CMS that the program is at risk of failure due to the many providers and vendors who may be unable to upgrade their systems in time. The senators also wrote in the March letter: "The electronic health records (EHR) meaningful use program was enacted in 2009 as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (aka the "stimulus"). As with most programs in the stimulus, the funds for EHRs were rushed out with little foresight or long-term planning. Stage 1 of the program was designed to increase adoption of EHRs, without any thought as to whether those systems would meet the future goals of the program that depend on interoperability. "Stage 2 regulations of the electronic health records meaningful use program impose new requirements on providers, and due to the lack of foresight in the initial Stage 1 planning, many providers are finding their old technology needs substantial, costly, and time-consuming upgrades. If providers are unable to meet their new requirements in 2014, they will have to pay steep penalties. These penalties are unfair to providers who are making good faith efforts to upgrade their electronic health record systems, but do not have enough time or the financial resources to accomplish this upgrade in the timeframe CMS allowed."
05.21.2014	05.21.14 Senator Burr Introduces Legislation Affecting Brunswick County WASHINGTON, DC- U.S. Senator Burr (R-NC) introduced legislation to correct a mistake by the Census Bureau and the Office of Management of Budget (OMB) that is hurting eastern North Carolina. A year ago, OMB issued new delineations for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) that arbitrarily separated Brunswick County from the Wilmington metropolitan area. MSAs are commonly used by businesses to determine the size of new markets and to analyze the workforce. Separating Brunswick County from Wilmington has led to an understatement of the size of the state's economy in the region and hurt economic development. Despite repeated outreach from Senator Burr, as well as civic and business leaders from the Brunswick County and Wilmington areas, the Obama Administration has failed to address this mistake. If passed, this legislation would settle the issue by requiring the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to consider Brunswick County to be part of the same metropolitan statistical area as Wilmington, North Carolina-- just like it always has been. "Everybody in North Carolina knows that Brunswick County is part of the greater Wilmington area," said Senator Burr. "Instead of mindlessly applying bureaucratic rules, the Administration needs to address what reality looks like for people in North Carolina." You can read the bill texthere.
05.21.2014	05.21.14 Senator Burr: Veterans Want Action, Not Words WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, released the following statement in response to this morning's White House press conference: "I listened with great interest to the President's remarks on the unfolding VA scandals. Quite frankly, I am shocked that the President feels he needs to wait for the results of yet another Office of Inspector General (IG) investigation to take action. As we discussed in our committee hearing with the Secretary last week, there are at least four years worth of reports from the Inspector General, the Government Accountability Office, the Office of Special Counsel, and Office of the Medical Investigator highlighting the problems within the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Yet we still can't connect the dots without a report on Phoenix? Veterans are tired of waiting for the next report, the next investigation, the next media "Breaking News Alert."' "VA is broken, Mr. President. Veterans don't want the appearance of leadership on this issue. They want action."
05.20.2014	05.20.14 Burr, Fischer Introduce Bill Banning Bonuses to Veterans Health Administration Employees Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, andDeb Fischer (R-Neb.), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, announced today they have introduced legislation to prohibit the payment of bonuses to employees at the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) through Fiscal Year 2015. The VHA, which manages medical centers across the country, is under investigation for placing veterans on "secret wait lists" to allegedly hide the true number of veterans waiting for care for more than two weeks. Reports suggest dozens of veterans across the nation died while waiting for VHA-provided care. "It is appalling and totally unacceptable that a Department that is being scrutinized by Congress and the media for a string of national scandals is giving out bonuses," said Senator Burr. "It is totally inconceivable that the Veterans Health Administration can justify rewarding themselves while they fail our veterans. It is my hope that the Senate will swiftly adopt this piece of legislation so that such gross misconduct is no longer rewarded at taxpayer expense." "It is disappointing that an Act of Congress is even necessary to stop bonuses at the Veterans Health Administration given the growing national scandal surrounding the agency,"said Senator Fischer."But where the administration falls short - particularly when it comes to enhancing accountability - Congress must step forward. Funding should be focused on fixing the problem, not rewarding employees entrenched in a failing bureaucracy. I hope the Senate quickly adopts this legislation as a small, but important step forward to restoring public trust." A copy of the legislation is available online HERE. In April 2013, Secretary Shinseki announced that the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) would not be awarding performance-based bonuses for senior executives due to "a failure to meet performance goals for reducing a sizable backlog in claims processing." However, Shinseki has not acted similarly with regard to the VHA's recent scandal.
05.20.2014	05.20.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on new VA Inspector General Report WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (IG) released a report on the Veterans Benefits Administration's(VBA)Quick Start Program. The Quick Start Program was designed to help servicemembers smoothly transition to civilian life by beginning the disability claims process for veterans prior to their separating from the Armed Forces. However,this newly releasedIG report reflects that numerous factors, such as ineffective use of resources, inadequate training, and insufficientprogram controls,led to problems with the timeliness and quality of VA's decisions on these claims. The IG noted that VA does not include in its statistics the time spent processing claims before military personnel leave the service, meaning that VA "does not accurately report the total time taken to process claims and provide veterans their benefits." Additionally, the IG found that the VBA accurately processed only 69% of Quick Start claims during 2013. That is 29% lower than VA's 98% goal and well below VA's reported quality measures. "In light of last week's hearing regarding the accuracy and trustworthiness of Veterans Health Administration's wait time data, I question the Administration's claim that the VA disability claims backlog is improving. The findings in this report are symptomatic of the ongoing, pervasive problems at the VA," said Senator Burr. "Congress must conduct aggressive oversight to make sure that the VA is treating our veterans with the respect that they deserve." To read IG's full report,click here.
05.20.2014	05.20.14 President Signs Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013 Into Law WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement following the President signing the Kilah DavenportChild ProtectionAct of 2013intolaw. "I ampleased that this important legislation has been signed intolaw," said Senator Burr. "The Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013 will help ensure the care and protection of our children.While I regret thatKilah did not survive to see her issue championed,her law will helpprotectother children. I also would like to thank Representative Pittenger for his advocacy and determination on behalf ofKilah's family and the abused." Named after Kilah Davenport, a young girl born and raised in North Carolina who was the victim of severe abuseand who tragically passed away earlier this year, thislawrequiresthe U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to issue a report detailing penalties for child abuse in each state, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories. Additionally,the lawaddresses child abuse in areas where the federal government has responsibility by clarifying that previous convictions of child abuse can lead to criminal penalties for the offense of domestic assault by a habitual offender. It will play an important role in addressing crimes against children. The Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013, which Senator Burr sponsored in the Senate (S. 1788),is supported by the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) and National Children's Alliance.
05.16.2014	05.16.14 Burr Releases a Statement on Petzel's Retirement WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, releases the following statement following the news of Under Secretary Petzel's retirement. "This is hardly breaking news. Dr. Petzel had already announced his retirement, and his successor is already being vetted. Any suggestion that Dr. Petzel's earlier-than-expected departure somehow changes things at VA should be met with a skeptical eye - at best. We do, however, wish Dr. Petzel all the best in his retirement."
05.14.2014	05.14.14 Burr, King Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Reform Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Contracting Program WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and Angus King (I-Maine) today introduced legislation that would make it easier for service-disabled veterans to do business with the federal government by eliminating confusing differences between veterans contracting programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Small Business Administration. "Our nation's disabled veterans and their families have sacrificed much for our country, and we will forever be in their debt," said Senator Burr. "During their service, veterans gain valuable knowledge and develop unique skills that are put to good use when they return home and open a small business. To help these veteran-owned businesses succeed, we should make sure there are clear-cut rules and regulations that do not hinder their business's ability to prosper. With this legislation we will ensure that our veterans don't have to fight massive bureaucracy after returning home from war." "America's service-disabled veterans and their families have sacrificed to defend our country and safeguard the values we hold dear. That's why when they return home and decide to open up a small business that works with the federal government, we should be giving them the support they need to start, grow, and maintain that business," Senator King said. "But right now, too many of these veterans are met with confusing rules and regulations and get the government go-round from multiple agencies when they seek help setting up or maintaining their small businesses. The simplified process established by our bill will make it easier for service- disabled veterans to cut through the red tape and will help surviving spouses carry on their business should they need that support. After all, these veterans bravely defended this country - shouldn't we find a way to make it easy for them to do business with the government?" The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) operate procurement programs for Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSBs) that provide special federal contracting opportunities to business-owning veterans who incurred disabilities in the line of duty. The SBA administers a government-wide program while the VA maintains a database of "verified" SDVOSBs and oversees its own, unique "Veterans First" contracting program for SDVOSBs. The VA and SBA, however, utilize differing definitions of an SDVOSB, which often results in inconsistent decisions about which firms qualify for contracts. Additionally, the VA allows surviving spouses of 100 percent service disabled veterans to retain SDVOSB for ten years while the SBA does not, creating uncertainty for the families of service-disabled veterans. In response to the ongoing problems with the VA verification program that impede progress for SDVOSB contracting preferences, Senator King's and Burr's bill would: • Unify the definitions of SDVOSB between the SBA and VA. • Allow surviving spouses of 100 percent disabled veterans or who died as a result of a service connected disability to retain SDVOSB status for ten years for both programs. • Allow surviving spouses of disabled veterans rated less than 100 percent or who did not die as a result of a service connected disability to retain SDVOSB status for three years. • Request that the GAO conduct a study to evaluate whether the SBA or the VA could or should assume responsibility for a government-wide verification program for SDVOSBs. The U.S. government has an annual government-wide goal of awarding 3 percent of federal agencies' contracting dollars to businesses owned by service-disabled veterans. Representative Mike Coffman (R-Col.-6) has introduced a similar bill on the House side, which is included in the House version of the 2015 National Defense Authorization Act. ###
05.12.2014	05.12.14 Senator Burr Mourns the Loss of Keith Crisco WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement following the news of the sudden passing of former Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Commerce, Keith Crisco. "Brooke and I were shocked to hear the news of Keith Crisco's untimely death. I considered Keith a close, personal friend and I know how much he cared for the state of North Carolina. He will be greatly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with Keith's family at this difficult time."
05.08.2014	05.08.14 Senator Burr Applauds the Passage of Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauds the Senate's passage of the Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013. Senator Burr introduced the legislation, which mirrors H.R. 3627, in December of 2013 and wrote to the Senate Judiciary Chairman and Ranking Member urging its swift consideration. Having passed both the House of Representatives and the Senate, this legislation will now move to the President's desk to be signed into law. "I am pleased that the Senate passed the Kilah Davenport Act tonight and I thank Representative Pittenger for his advocacy on behalf of the family and the abused," said Senator Burr. "The Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013 will help ensure the care and protection of our children and help address abuse in each of our states. I only regret Kilah did not survive to see her issue championed -- God bless her and her family." Named after Kilah Davenport, a young girl born and raised in North Carolina who was the victim of severe abuse, this bill would require the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to issue a report detailing penalties for child abuse in each state, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories. Additionally, this bill addresses child abuse in areas where the federal government has responsibility by clarifying that previous convictions of child abuse can lead to criminal penalties for the offense of domestic assault by a habitual offender. This legislation will play an important role in addressing crimes against children. The Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013 is supported by the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) and National Children's Alliance.
05.06.2014	05.06.14 Senator Burr Demands IRS Address Rewards for IRS Employees Violating Tax Law WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Burr (R-NC) joined his Republican colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee in sending a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen demanding answers as to how the IRS plans to prevent future bonus payments from being given to employees with conduct, performance, and tax compliance issues. Last year, Senator Burr wrote the IRS demanding that bonuses be suspended agency-wide in light of the IRS abuse of the Constitutional rights of conservative organizations. At the time, the IRS agreed that bonuses were not permissible. In February of this year, news broke of bonuses being paid out. On April 22, 2014, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) issued a report. Amid the findings, TIGTA found that between October 1, 2010, and December 21, 2012, more than 2,900 IRS employees with recent conduct issues resulting in disciplinary action received more than $2.8 million in monetary awards. Among these, more than 1,100 IRS employees with federal tax compliance problems received more than $1 million in cash awards. Last week, Senators Burr and Manchin introduced "No Bonuses for Tax Cheats Act," a bipartisan piece of legislation which would bar the IRS from paying out bonuses to employees who are tax delinquent or were found to have substantial evidence of misconduct. "It is unconscionable that the very agency that enforces the tax code would reward behavior that directly contradicts its mission. Employees that do not follow the law are a risk to the integrity and overall performance of the IRS and their misconduct should be taken in consideration at the time bonuses are paid out, let alone if they should still have a job. It is my hope, and my colleagues, that the IRS will take swift action," said Senator Burr. The text of the letter, sent late yesterday, is below: May 5, 2014 The Honorable John A. Koskinen Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Commissioner Koskinen: We write regarding the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's (TIGTA) report to the public on April 22, 2014, citing the several thousand IRS employees with either substantial conduct or tax compliance problems who received monetary or time-off awards. In several cases, personnel were given awards even though they had willfully understated tax liabilities, made late payments of tax liabilities or had under-reported income. Any of these violations would have placed average taxpayers under IRS scrutiny and certainly not have ended with them receiving an award. The public disclosure of these awards at a time when the IRS is under scrutiny for its actions concerning the political activity of conservative social welfare organizations and when its performance of basic taxpayer service functions have materially worsened calls into question the agency's commitment to the fair enforcement of our tax laws. In recent testimony to the House Appropriations Committee, you testified that "the IRS is committed to carrying out its core responsibilities and working to preserve the public's faith in the essential fairness and integrity of our tax system." The distribution of monetary and time off rewards to personnel who have substantively violated the federal tax laws is entirely inconsistent with this statement and particularly galling given other recent actions by your agency. In the same testimony, you noted "…we recognize that there has been a loss of confidence among taxpayers and particularly within Congress in regard to the way we manage operations, particularly the management problems that came to light last year in the section 501(c)(4) area. One of my responsibilities is to ensure that we are minimizing risks and quickly solving management and operational problems that may arise, so that Congress can be confident that when we request additional funding the money will be used wisely."[i] The revelations in TIGTA's report contradict these statements and further erode public confidence in the nation's tax enforcement agency when it already has been plagued by questions about its ability to apply the tax laws in an equitable and unbiased manner. These bonuses further denigrate the IRS' relationship with taxpayers, who are already experiencing "a deterioration in [agency] performance." In your April 7, 2014, testimony, you also estimated that every dollar "invested" in the IRS budget produces $4 in enforcement revenue. Given this calculus, the money spent on the bonuses identified in the TIGTA report would fully fund a number of the enforcement programs requested for FY 2015. The payment of awards to IRS employees who disregard the law creates an obvious conflict of interest with the agency's mandate to ensure integrity of the tax system and is very troubling at a time when the agency asks for additional appropriations for enforcement activities. The IRS's decision to issue bonuses to personnel who have violated the tax laws is foolhardy and wasteful in such a challenging fiscal climate. We would appreciate an explanation of how the agency's award system accounts for improper conduct by IRS employees. Further, we believe bonus payments to employees who have violated federal tax laws are improper and should, to the extent consistent with the law, be immediately rescinded. We would also like an explanation of how you plan to expeditiously adopt measures and standards to prevent future awards from being given to employees with conduct and performance issues. Specifically, we respectfully request that you provide information (including a time frame) on the following: Why the IRS has elected not to consider recent disciplinary actions resulting from employee misconduct when determining award eligibility; Changes in personnel policy, performance standards, and initiatives that would strengthen IRS employee compliance with work-place and tax laws in a way consistent with expectations and general practices of successful businesses; The feasibility of changes to NTEU National Agreement II ("…will not preclude a performance award that otherwise would be granted unless such preclusion is necessary to protect the integrity of the Service.") to prohibit the provision of an award when there have been substantiated violations of the federal tax laws; Whether not giving performance awards to IRS employees that violated the federal tax laws is necessary to protect the integrity of the Internal Revenue Service; and The number of IRS employees who violated the federal tax laws, as identified in the TIGTA report, disciplined for these violations. We ask that you provide the requested information as soon as possible, but no later than June 1, 2014. If you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact Chris Allen of Senator Roberts' staff at (202) 224-4774, Bart Massey of Senator Enzi's staff at (202) 224-3424, and Jim Lyons of Ranking Member Hatch's staff at (202) 224-4515. The American public expects and deserves something better from our highest tax administration agency; namely actions displaying a commitment to a higher standard that provides an example to the citizens the agency serves. Thank you for your attention to this request. [i] Written Testimony of John A. Koskinen, Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service, Before the House Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Financial Service and General Government on the FY 2015 IRS Budget, April 7, 2014. -30-
04.30.2014	04.30.14 Burr, Begich, Sanders Lead on Bipartisan Legislation to Increase Benefits to Veterans WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veteran Affairs', joined the Chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and U.S. Senator Mark Begich (D-AK) to introduce bipartisan legislation to increase benefits to veterans to keep up with the cost of living. The bill would make a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) available to veterans at the same level as the increase provided to Social Security beneficiaries. The annual COLA legislation impacts veterans disability payments and compensation for surviving spouses and children. "Our nation's veterans selflessly gave themselves to defend our freedoms, and it is our responsibility to ensure that we provide them with the benefits and services they need and deserve," said Senator Burr. "This bipartisan legislation is one way we can help make sure we are keeping true to our promise to our nation's veterans and their families." "The COLA increase is incredibly important to veterans everywhere, especially the 77,000 veterans living in Alaska who rely on these payments to feed their families, heat their homes, pay for prescription drugs, and to provide for the needs of spouses and children," said Senator Begich. "We have an obligation to the men and women who have sacrificed so much to serve our country and who now deserve nothing less than the full support of a grateful Nation. The COLA brings us one step closer to fulfilling our promise to care for our brave veterans and their families and I thank Chairman Sanders and Ranking Member Burr for their support." "I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2014," said Senator Sanders. "Congress has an obligation to ensure the benefits provided to veterans and their survivors do not erode over time and introduction of this bill brings us one step closer to honoring this commitment." The Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2014 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the rates of veterans' compensation to keep pace with a rise in the cost-of-living, prompted by an increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The legislation would make an increase available to veterans at the same level as the increase provided to recipients of Social Security benefits. This year, it is projected that over 4.2 million veterans and survivors will receive compensation benefits. Co-sponsors of this bill include Senators Blumenthal, Boozman, Brown, Heller, Hirono, Isakson, Johanns, Moran, Murray, Rockefeller, and Tester.
04.30.2014	04.30.14 Senators Burr and Manchin Introduce No Bonuses for Tax Cheats Act WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the No Bonuses for Tax Cheats Act. This legislation is in response to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) report, which brought to light the $2.8 million in bonuses that the IRS gave to employees who were delinquent on their taxes or who had committed serious misconduct, including fraud and drug use. The No Bonuses for Tax Cheats Act would bar the IRS from paying out bonuses to employees who are tax delinquent or were found to have substantial evidence of misconduct. "If the American people are going to trust the IRS to administer the tax code, the agency needs to get its own house in order," said Senator Burr. "Employees who choose not to follow the law they are entrusted to enforce are a threat to the integrity and mission of the IRS, and they should not be sheltered or rewarded in any way. It is my hope that the Senate will swiftly adopt this commonsense and bipartisan piece of legislation so that misconduct is no longer rewarded at taxpayer expense." "It is appalling and completely unacceptable that millions of dollars in bonuses were given to IRS employees who haven't been paying their taxes," Senator Manchin said. "The faith of the American people in our government is bruised every time negligence and indecency of this sort comes to light. How can we expect the American people — many of whom are struggling to make ends meet — to trust their government when they learn that the very agency charged with collecting their tax dollars is rewarding employees who haven't paid theirs? No federal agency should reward tax-delinquent employees with taxpayer-funded bonuses, least of all the IRS. I thank my good friend Senator Burr for working with me on this important piece of legislation that will help right this wrong." You can read the full text of the bill here and the TIGTA report here.
04.24.2014	04.24.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released a statement on Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day, based on a resolution passed in March which was designed to create inspiring educational experiences for America's children. "America is in the midst of a dropout crisis unlike we have ever seen, and one way we can combat that is making sure our children are exposed to the opportunities that are available to them after they complete their education," Senator Burr said. "This program shows our sons and daughters what they are working towards so they know the value and sense of purpose that come with an education and career goals." Headquartered in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Foundation is one of the largest public awareness campaigns in America with over 37,000,000 participants annually in over 3,500,000 workplaces in every state in the country.This year marks the 21st anniversary of the Take Our Daughters and Sons To Work program. Visit their website here.
04.21.2014	04.21.14 Senator Burr Announces Events for the Week of April 21st WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Guilford, Durham, Wake, and Mecklenburg counties during the week of April 21st. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, April 22, 2014 10:00am Senator Burr to speak to the legislative committee looking at the impact of Obamacare 507 Stirling Street Greensboro, NC 27412 3:30pm Senator Burr to visit Novan Therapeutics 4222 Emperor Boulevard, Suite 200 Durham, NC 27703 Wednesday, April 23, 2014 9:30am Senator Burr to speak to students at Athens Drive High School 1420 Athens Dr Raleigh, NC 27606 11:30am Senator Burr to attend "Reforming Veterans Affairs: Preserving Promises toNorth CarolinaVeterans" Raleigh Marriott City Center 500 Fayetteville Street Raleigh, NC 1:30pm Senator Burr to visit Rock Quarry Road Family Medicine Rock Quarry Road Family Medicine 1001 Rock Quarry Road Raleigh, NC 4:30pm Senator Burr to join the Bill LuMaye show in-studio 3012 Highwoods Blvd, Suite # 201 Raleigh, NC 27604 Thursday, April 24, 2014 11:30am Senator Burr to speak at the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition Lunch Hilton Charlotte City Center 222 East Third Street Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
04.03.2014	04.03.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement Following Intelligence Committee Hearing Washington, D.C. -Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement following the Intelligence Committee hearing: "In December 2012, I joined several of my colleagues in voting against this report. At that time, I was deeply concerned about the factual inaccuracies contained within the report, including inaccurate information relating to the details of the interrogation program and other information provided by detainees. I had hoped that the authors of the report would ensure that the American public was provided facts, not fiction. I am extremely disappointed in the flawed and biased results of their work." "However, I voted today to declassify the report to give the American people the opportunity to make their own judgments. I am confident that they will agree that a 6,300 page report based on a cold document review, without a single interview of Intelligence Community, Executive Branch, or contract personnel involved, cannot be an accurate representation of any program, let alone this one." "Based on what I have learned as a member of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, I firmly believe that the CIA's detention program saved lives and played a vital role in ensuring that our nation had the intelligence it needed to successfully combat al-Qa'ida in the days following 9/11 and in the years since that fateful day." "I believe in our Intelligence Community professionals. I believe that they endeavor to make decisions in accordance with the law and in the best interests of our Nation. I believe that this Committee conducts vigorous oversight of Intelligence Community activities and programs, and will continue to do so. And I believe that there are many honorable people who have dedicated their lives to protect our country and we need to allow them to get back to work."
03.28.2014	03.28.14 Senator Burr Announces Event for March 31st U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Wake county Monday, March 31, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Monday, March 31, 2014 12:00pmSenator Burr to speak at the John Locke Foundation lunch Doubletree Brownstone Hotel 1707 Hillsborough Street Raleigh, NC
03.27.2014	03.27.14 Senator Burr Announces Event for March 28th U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Mecklenburg county Friday, March 28, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Friday, March 28, 2014 2:00pm Senator Burr to attend the groundbreaking of the Charlotte VA Health Care Center Cascade Pointe Blvd & W. Tyvola Rd Charlotte, NC
03.27.2014	03.27.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on New Data from CDC Washington, D.C. -Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) new data on the prevalence of autism in the United States. The CDC study identified 1 in 68 children (1 in 42 boys and 1 in 189 girls) as having an autism spectrum disorder, with North Carolinaas one of the states with the highest prevalence. "Today's news on the prevalence of autism is substantially worse than we ever thought. Children and adults with autism face enormous daily challenges, and it is important that we dowhatwe can tosupport these individuals and their families as they deal with the day-to-day struggles presented by autism spectrum disorders,"said Senator Burr. "That's why Senator Casey and I introduced the ABLE Act. It would allow families to use a 529 college savings account to save for 'disability expenses' - such as housing, education and medical expenses -- for a disabled child, including children living with autism." ABLE Act is widely bipartisan, with 69 Senate cosponsors, including both Senate leaders, and 345 House cosponsors. The legislation would amend Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Service Code to allow use of tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities. The bill, first introduced in 2006, would ease financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, medical, and transportation. The bill would supplement, but not supplant, benefits provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program, the beneficiary's employment, and other sources. The ABLE Act is supported by Autism Speaks, along with the National Down Syndrome Society, The Arc, March of Dimes, Easter Seals, and the National Fragile X Foundation.
03.25.2014	03.25.14 Senator Burr Introduces Resolution Honoring Gold Star Wives Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced a resolution to designate April 5, 2014 as "Gold Star Wives Day." This day provides an opportunity to honor the members of Gold Star Wives of America, a volunteer organization that has assisted widows and survivors of fallen military members since it was founded in 1945, and thank them for their untiring efforts and support. "Gold Star Wives are the best of what America has to offer -- out of love and duty to their country, members of Gold Star Wives have taken on responsibilities that consume significant amounts of time and energy," Senator Burr said. "Members of Gold Star Wives are both women and men who have lost someone extremely important to them in service to our country, yet they still have compassion to serve others. Our nation owes these individuals and families a huge debt of gratitude, and by designating April 5 as "Gold Star Wives Day," we can offer a small token of appreciation for their patriotism, service, and sacrifice." The first meeting of the Gold Star Wives of America occurred on April 5, 1945, with First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt as founding member. In addition to designating April 5, 2014 as "Gold Star Wives Day," this resolution promotes awareness of the dedication and sacrifice of the families of America's fallen soldiers and veterans. To learn more about the Gold Star Wives of America, please visit their website here.
03.24.2014	03.24.14 Burr, Casey: Leaders Reid and McConnell Sign On As Cosponsors of ABLE Act Senate Leaders sign on, greatly increasing the chance for passage Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) announced that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) have cosponsored their bill, the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act (ABLE Act - S. 313/H.R. 647). This legislation would provide an improved quality of life for individuals with disabilities through tax-advantaged savings accounts. The legislation now has the support of 68 Senators and 345 members of the House, making it one of the most widely supported bills in all of Congress. Having leaders Reid and McConnell back this bill adds to the growing momentum to pass the legislation this year. "The news today that both Senate leaders have agreed to cosponsor the ABLE Act is giving new hope to the severely disabled and their families across America," said Senator Burr. "ABLE is a commonsense piece of legislation that helps parents of the severely disabled save and prepare for their child's lifetime of expenses. With such broad bipartisan support in both houses of Congress, it is my hope that 2014 is the year we finally pass the ABLE Act." "I want to thank Senators Reid and McConnell for signing on to the ABLE Act. Having their support is critical to getting this legislation passed, and I'm hopeful that we'll do just that in the coming months," Senator Casey said. "The ABLE Act now has support from a strong majority in both parties because it is a commonsense approach that will help families of children with disabilities save and pay for their long term care. Passing the ABLE Act will help give these families peace of mind in knowing that they can better save for their loved ones." The legislation would amend Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Service Code to allow use of tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities. The bill, first introduced in 2006, would ease financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, medical, and transportation. The bill would supplement, but not supplant, benefits provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program, the beneficiary's employment, and other sources. The ABLE Act is supported by the National Down Syndrome Society, Autism Speaks, The Arc, March of Dimes, Easter Seals, and the National Fragile X Foundation.
03.19.2014	03.19.14 Media Advisory: Senator Burr Announces Events for March 20th and 21st WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Guilford, Rowan, and Mecklenburg counties Thursday, March 20, 2014 and Friday, March 21, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press officeat (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Thursday, March 20, 2014 10:00amSenator Burr to tour Glass Unlimited 2149 Brevard Road High Point, NC 12:30pmSenator Burr to attend Rowan EDC/CEO Roundtable Luncheon 204 E. Innes St. Ste. 220 Salisbury, NC 2:30pm Senator Burr to visit Hendrick Motorsports 4345 Papa Joe Hendrick Blvd. Charlotte, NC Friday, March 21, 2014 9:15am Senator Burr to speak with Paul and Meg on 96.9 FM 801 Woodridge Center Drive Charlotte, NC 10:00amSenator Burr to interview with Charlotte Business Journal 1100 S. Tryon St. Suite 100 Charlotte, NC 12:30pmSenator Burr to visit Charlotte Works 1401 West Morehead St. Suite 100 Charlotte, NC
03.14.2014	03.14.14 Media Advisory: Senator Burr Announces Events for March 17th and 18th U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be visiting Pitt, Edgecombe, Nash, Wilson, Wake, and Durham counties Monday, March 17, 2014 and Tuesday, March 18, 2014. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Monday, March 17 , 2014 11:00amSenator Burr to attend the Greenville VA Health Care Center ribbon cutting Greenville VA Health Care Center 401 Moye Boulevard Greenville, N. C. 1:00pmSenator Burr to speak to the Rocky Mount Rotary Club DoubleTree Hotel 651 N. Winstead Avenue Rocky Mount, N. C. 2:15pm Senator Burr to visit Nash Health Care Nash Health Care 2460 Curtis Ellis Drive Rocky Mount, N. C. 4:00pm Senator Burr to tour Wilson Medical Center Wilson Medical Center 1705 Tarboro Street West Wilson, N. C. Tuesday, March 18 , 2014 10:00amSenator Burr to tour Red Hat's headquarters Red Hat 100 E. Davie Street Raleigh, N. C. 11:30amSenator Burr to visit Bayer Crop Science 2 T. W. Alexander Drive Durham, N. C.
03.13.2014	03.13.14 Bipartisan Bill to Help American Families Access Safe, Affordable, and Quality Child Care Clears Senate Senators Burr, Mikulski, Harkin, and Alexander Are Authors of the Bipartisan “Child Care and Development Block Grant Act,” Overwhelmingly Approved by the Senate Bipartisan legislation to help American families access safe, affordable, and quality child care has cleared the Senate with strong support from senators on both sides of the aisle. U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) released the following statements today after the Senate passed the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2014, a bipartisan reauthorization that will improve the quality of child care for the more than 1.5 million children and families that benefit from the federal child care voucher program. The law has been due for reauthorization since 2002. Burr and Mikulski are the former chairman and ranking member of the Senate Subcommittee on Children and Families, while Harkin and Alexander are chairman and ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. The legislation, which was unanimously approved by the Committee in September 2013, represents the 17th bipartisan HELP Committee bill in the 113th Congress to be approved by the full Senate. Ten of those bills have already been signed into law. "I am pleased my colleagues passed the bipartisan Child Care Development Block Grant (CCDBG). This is how the Senate should run -- with mutual respect and productive conversation," said Senator Burr. "Our working together made sure that our hardest working parents have access to quality, safe child care. Through years of negotiations, meetings with hundreds of interested stakeholders, and honest conversations with my colleagues in the Senate, we have taken a positive step toward ensuring our kids are protected while in child care. This is a good day for the United States Senate, our working parents, and their children. I urge my colleagues in the House to pass this legislation." "Today's bipartisan action by the Senate to refresh and reform the vitally important CCDBG program is good news that will bring peace of mind to the thousands of Maryland families who rely upon this program for child care. I introduced this legislation to ensure that child care across America is available, affordable, reliable, safe and exceptional," Senator Mikulski said. "Child care is something all families worry about regardless of their zip code or the size of their wallet. We all say that children are one of our most important resources - which means that child care is one of our most important decisions. For more than 1.5 million American families, including 19,000 in Maryland, CCDBG provides a lifeline so that all children have the care that they need and deserve. Updating this vitally important child care program will help support those who care for our children, give parents peace of mind that their children are safe and receiving quality care, and better prepare our children for the future. It will help keep working parents at work while ensuring children have a safe environment that provides them the skills they need to begin to develop their potential and be better prepared for school." "We know that learning begins at birth, and the preparation for learning begins before birth. That's why access to high-quality child care and early education programs are so critically important," Senator Harkin said. "The updates to this bill will ensure that the Child Care Block Grant program is both a support for working families as well as rich early-learning opportunity for children, including infants and toddlers and children with disabilities. This bill is a testament to how Congress can enact meaningful change by working together across party lines. I am encouraged by the HELP Committee's growing record of bipartisan accomplishments." "Washington ideas are often big and burdensome with lots of rules, but this child care program has survived for more than two decades with a simple idea: Give states grants so they can help low-income parents pay for the child care that best suits their families," Senator Alexander said. "This year it helped the parents of about 1.5 million children receive child care so they could go to work or get an education and move up the economic ladder and reach the American dream. I am pleased the Senate passed it today after a good debate, during which senators had the opportunity to offer amendments and get votes on those amendments, and I hope we can achieve more good results like this." When the CCDBG program was last reauthorized in 1996, the program rightly focused primarily on workforce aid. But in the intervening years, more has been learned about the necessity of not just providing children with a place to go, but also the importance of providing them with high-quality care. Last Congress, Mikulski and Burr held three public hearings—consulting with parents, childcare providers and early learning and developmental experts and other child care advocacy organizations—to explore how best the CCDBG program could be reauthorized and improved. The CCDBG reauthorization bill incorporates feedback and suggestions provided to the Committee since 2012. The bill requires states to devote more of their funding to quality initiatives, such as: training, professional development, and professional advancement of the child care workforce. The bill ensures that CCDBG providers meet certain health and safety requirements related to prevention and control of infectious diseases, first aid and CPR, child abuse prevention, administration of medication, prevention of and response to emergencies due to food allergies, prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and shaken baby syndrome, building and physical premises safety, and emergency response planning. The legislation gives families more stability in the CCDBG program and works to improve early childhood care also by requiring states to focus on infant and toddler quality initiatives. Finally, the bill requires mandatory background checks for child care providers in the CCDBG program. A summary of the bill can be seen here.
03.11.2014	03.11.14 Burr, Mikulski, Harkin, Alexander Urge Senate Passage of Bipartisan Bill to Help American Families Access Safe, Affordable, and Quality Child Care Senators Are Authors of the Bipartisan Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, Unanimously Approved by the Senate HELP Committee in September 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) urged Senate passage of the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2014, a bipartisan reauthorization that will improve the quality of child care for the more than 1.5 million children who benefit from the federal child care program. The Child Care Development Block Grant is the product of 1996 welfare reform legislation intended to promote employment and economic self-sufficiency by parents through child care vouchers. Burr and Mikulski are the former chairman and ranking member of the Senate Subcommittee on Children and Families, while Harkin and Alexander are chairman and ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. The legislation, which was unanimously approved by the Committee in September 2013, represents the 17th bipartisan HELP Committee bill in the 113th Congress to be considered by the full Senate. Ten of those bills have already been signed into law. "As a dad, I understand that it is always difficult to balance work and family. But for many families, especially single parent households, having access to affordable child care is the only way they can work and not be dependent on welfare. The Child Care Development Block Grant (CCDBG) is an important federal program that splits the cost of child care with working families to make sure that affordable, quality options exist for them," said Senator Burr. "CCDBG is a welfare reform success story that encourages personal responsibility. The transparency we incorporate in this law will go a long way toward making parents well-informed consumers of child care and improve the safety of the programs. It is of particular importance to me that federal dollars will no longer go to child care providers who have been convicted of violent crimes. CCDBG also places an emphasis on improving the quality of our childcare facilities over the next several years. This is not another Washington entitlement but an investment in the self-sufficiency of some of our hardest working families." "Every working parent with children no matter their income level worries about child care. What's affordable? What's accessible? Will my child be safe? Where can I get the very best care for my kid? It is not enough to simply ensure that kids have someplace to go. We must also ensure that they go someplace that is safe, that nurtures their development, that challenges their mind and that prepares them for school," Senator Mikulski said. "It's time we revitalize, refresh and reform the vitally important CCDBG program to support child care providers, give parents peace of mind and better prepare our children for the future." "Child care is a consideration for all working families—and every parent wants to know that they can entrust their son or daughter to affordable, capable childcare that doesn't sacrifice on quality or safety," Senator Harkin said. "This bipartisan bill will not only enhance quality and safety, but will also ensure that low-income and at-risk children and families have access to affordable care, promote the healthy development of children enrolled, and improve services for children with disabilities who require care—improvements that all reflect our greater understanding of what makes a successful child care program. I am encouraged by the HELP Committee's growing record of bipartisan accomplishments, and this bill is a testament to how Congress can enact meaningful change by working together across party lines." "Each year, the Child Care Development Block Grant program helps more than 1.5 million low-income children nationwide, including 39,000 in Tennessee, have the kind of early learning and care that can help put them on the same starting line as other children," Senator Alexander said. "The program works because it supports parents going to work or getting an education, and gives them the freedom to choose the child care that is right for their family. With this reauthorization, which passed our committee unanimously, Sens. Burr and Mikulski have given us a model for getting results in the Senate." When the CCDBG program was last reauthorized, the program rightly focused primarily on workforce aid. But in the intervening years, more has been learned about the necessity of not just providing children with a place to go, but also the importance of providing them with high-quality care. Last Congress, Mikulski and Burr held three public hearings—consulting with parents, childcare providers and early learning and developmental experts and other child care advocacy organizations—to explore how best the CCDBG program could be reauthorized and improved. The CCDBG reauthorization bill incorporates feedback and suggestions provided to the Committee since 2012. The bill requires states to devote more of their funding to quality initiatives, such as: training, professional development, and professional advancement of the child care workforce. The bill ensures that CCDBG providers meet certain health and safety requirements related to prevention and control of infectious diseases, first aid and CPR, child abuse prevention, administration of medication, prevention of and response to emergencies due to food allergies, prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and shaken baby syndrome, building and physical premises safety, and emergency response planning. The legislation gives families more stability in the CCDBG program and works to improve early childhood care also by requiring states to focus on infant and toddler quality initiatives. Finally, the bill requires mandatory background checks for child care providers in the CCDBG program. A summary of the bill can be seen here.
02.28.2014	02.28.14 Senators Express Concerns Over Recent Changes to TRICARE WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Last evening, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kay Hagan (D-NC), James Inhofe (R-OK), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) sent the following letter to Secretary Hagel, regarding a change to TRICARE's reimbursement policy, excluding more than 100 different Molecular Pathology Laboratory (MoPath) tests and other Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs) with no notice to beneficiaries or to health care providers. Despite such a large change in policy, which took place January 1, 2013, no notices were given to either beneficiaries or providers, and doctors continued to order the tests, while major laboratories shouldered the costs in hopes that the Defense Department would reverse the policy. In their letter, the Senators highlight their concerns about how TRICARE's refusal of coverage will affect military families and patients. "We are concerned that TRICARE's refusal of coverage and reimbursement for certain LDTs outside of a Military Treatment Facility (MTF) denies military families and patients access to care simply because they either choose to receive care at a civilian medical provider or are unable to access a MTF. Additionally, it is concerning that TRICARE changed a reimbursement policy which may negatively impact a significant population of patients and military families. It is our understanding that MoPath tests and other LDTs are standard practice of care for many providers." They also ask Secretary Hagel to address several questions by March 14, 2014. "1. What are TRICARE's policies for providing a notification and public comment period for reimbursement policy changes impacting beneficiaries and the policies allowing for public and stakeholder comment to any such policy change? Please explain in detail which if any of these policies and procedures were applied with respect to the change in TRICARE's reimbursement policy for certain MoPath tests and other LDTs. 2. What stakeholder input and feedback did TRICARE take into consideration, including from TRICARE patients and providers, to fully inform the reimbursement and coverage policy change made by your Department, including how this decision will affect patient access to care? 3. What is TRICARE's justification for denying coverage for LDTs for patients who receive care outside of a MTF, but continuing coverage and reimbursement for LDTs provided for patients who receive care within a MTF? 4. Does TRICARE have an appeals process for services that a physician determines are medically necessary for a specific patient, but are not covered under current TRICARE policy? If so, please provide detailed information." "Our military's health insurance should adhere to the widely held standards of care accepted by the medical community at large," said Senator Burr. "Our members of the military and their families should have the same access as other government employees and civilians in the private sector and not be penalized for receiving care at a private facility." "These tests provide useful information to help physicians determine the best course of treatment for their patients and are widely considered by the medical community to be the normal standard of care," said Senator Hagan. "Our military families have sacrificed so much for our country and shouldn't be forced to pay out of pocket for routine lab tests that are available to most patients." "The recent changes in TRICARE's reimbursement of laboratory developed tests are arbitrary and unjustified," said Senator Inhofe. "It sets up an inequitable benefit among TRICARE beneficiaries and is inconsistent with the accepted standard of care. Congress and military families deserve an explanation." "We have a sacred trust with those who have risked their lives so that we may live in freedom. Part of that sacred trust is making sure we provide our veterans with the care and benefits they have earned and deserve," Senator Mikulski said. "I'm so pleased to stand alongside my Senate colleagues, holding TRICARE accountable and fighting to ensure that our servicemen, service women, and their families are not denied coverage and reimbursements for Laboratory Developed tests. Our military families must receive the best care and treatments possible." "Many of our nation's active duty and veterans rely on private facilities for their medical care when a Military Treatment Facility is not accessible to them, and they should not be denied the same standard of care available to their counterparts who have the benefit of such access," said Senator Chambliss. "We owe these men and women and their families the basic health care they've been promised. It is time for TRICARE to resolve this matter." "Members of the military and their families deserve the best health care available, and that includes any necessary diagnostic tests or lab work," said Senator Gillibrand, the chairwomen of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel. "We need an explanation of why reimbursement rates were changed unannounced, and what is going to be done to fix it." To view the text of the letter, click here.
02.10.2014	02.10.14 Burr, Casey Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Pressing for Accountability in Sri Lanka With the March session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) approaching, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced a resolution calling for an independent investigation into allegations of war crimes during the Sri Lankan conflict and urging the Government of Sri Lanka to uphold media freedoms. "This resolution calls for the establishment of an independent international accountability mechanism that would hold responsible those who have committed war crimes and crimes against humanity," said Senator Burr. "I believe ensuring a lasting peace in Sri Lanka is in the interest of the Sri Lankan people, the United States, and the broader international community." "Four years since the end of the conflict in Sri Lanka, there has yet to be real progress made on reconciliation and accountability through domestic processes," said Senator Casey. "Human rights violations continue, and the Sri Lankan government has failed to bring to justice the perpetrators of attacks against journalists, religious and ethnic minorities, and opposition politicians. As the March session of the UNHRC approaches, I believe another UNHRC resolution is warranted." The full text of Burr and Casey's resolution can be seen below: Expressing support for the internal rebuilding, resettlement, and reconciliation within Sri Lanka that are necessary to ensure a lasting peace. Whereas May 19, 2013 marks the four-year anniversary of the end of the 26-year conflict between the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and the Government of Sri Lanka; Whereas the people of Sri Lanka suffered greatly as a result of this conflict, the impact and aftermath of which has been felt especially by women, children, and families; Whereas the Government of Sri Lanka established a "Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission" (LLRC) to report whether any person, group, or institution directly or indirectly bears responsibility for incidents that occurred between February 2002 and May 2009 and to recommend measures to prevent the recurrence of such incidents in the future and promote further national unity and reconciliation among all communities; Whereas the LLRC report was presented to the Sri Lankan Parliament on December 16, 2011, and officially translated into Sinhala and Tamil on August 16, 2012, Whereas the LLRC report acknowledges important events and grievances, that have contributed to decades of political violence and war in Sri Lanka and makes constructive recommendations on a wide range of issues, including the need to credibly investigate widespread allegations of extrajudicial killings; enforced disappearances; intentional targeting of civilians and noncombatants; demilitarizing the north and the country as a whole; reaching a political settlement with minority communities on the meaningful decentralization of power; and promoting and protecting the right to freedom of expression for all through the enactment of a right to information law and additional rule of law reforms; Whereas the Government of Sri Lanka developed the National Plan of Action to implement just 82 of the 285 recommendations of the LLRC in August 2011, and although the Government of Sri Lanka has made some progress on rehabilitation, resettlement of displaced persons, and improvements of infrastructure in the North and East, there are still many issues of major concern; Whereas the Government of Sri Lanka has yet to reasonably address issues of reconciliation and accountability through internal processes; Whereas the Department of State's 2012 Human Rights Report on Sri Lanka outlines ongoing concerns regarding landownership and property restitution, particularly in the Jaffna Peninsula where large numbers of persons have not received restitution for land that remains part of government high security zones; and while citizens generally were able to travel almost anywhere in the island, there continues to be police and military checkpoints in the north, and de facto high-security zones and other areas remained off limits to citizens; Whereas the Government of Sri Lanka has not taken tangible steps toward demilitarization of civilian functions, particularly in the North and East, and continued military presence on private lands in the North is preventing the resettlement of internally displaced persons who desire a return to peaceful life; Whereas the Department of State's 2012 Human Rights Report on Sri Lanka also includes reports of serious human rights violations such as, unlawful killings by security forces and government-allied paramilitary groups, often in predominantly Tamil areas; torture and abuse of detainees by police and security forces; and arbitrary arrest and detention by authorities; Whereas the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) resolution supported by the United States and adopted by the UNHRC on March 21, 2013, expresses concern at the continuing reports of violations of human rights in Sri Lanka, including enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings, torture and violations of the rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, as well as intimidation of and reprisals against human rights defenders, members of civil society and journalists, threats to judicial independence and the rule of law, and discrimination on the basis of religion or belief; Whereas the Government of Sri Lanka expressed its commitment to addressing the needs of all ethnic groups and has recognized, in the past, the necessity of a political settlement and reconciliation for a peaceful and just society; Whereas tangible progress on domestic and international investigations into reports of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and other human rights violations during and after the conflict and promoting reconciliation would facilitate enhanced United States engagement and investment in Sri Lanka: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate — (1) commends the representatives of the United States on their leadership on United Nations Human Rights Council Resolution (UNHRC) 22/1 adopted by the UNHRC on March 21, 2013 promoting reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka; (2) calls on the United States and the international community to establish an independent international accountability mechanism to evaluate reports of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and other human rights violations committed by both sides during and after the war in Sri Lanka. (3) urges the Government of Sri Lanka to allow unimpeded access for media, international aid agencies and human rights groups into all regions of the country, as well as to detention sites that may hold political and war prisoners; (4) urges the Government of Sri Lanka to end its media restrictions, including the obstacles to the flow of information in the North and East, and bring to justice those responsible for attacks on journalists and newspaper offices; (5) calls upon the President to develop a comprehensive policy towards Sri Lanka that reflects United States interests, including respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, economic interests, and security interests.
02.07.2014	02.07.14 An Open Letter to the Raleigh News & Observer This week, the Raleigh News & Observer ran an editorial attacking the Patient CARE Act, my proposal to repeal Obamacare and replace it with patient-centered reforms of our health care system that are actually affordable. Throughout the editorial, they mischaracterized the proposal, and mislead their readers about the plan and its contents. In an attempt to set the record straight, I prepared a response-a response the News & Observer said they would be happy to run, if the length was cut in half. As this is a complicated, multi-faceted plan that requires a full explanation, I felt it better to offer up my full response here instead. Thank you for reading. - Senator Richard Burr "When the health care debate began, I warned that the President's health care bill was the wrong direction for our nation and North Carolina. I offered an alternative then-The Patients' Choice Act-along with Senator Tom Coburn because health care was broken before Obamacare. Unfortunately, as a result of its implementation, things are worse today than they were before. Going back to the way our health care system looked before is not an option, but neither is continuing on the current course of increased costs, government mandates, and broken promises. The President and Congressional Democrats made many promises during the health care debate. Since the law's enactment, North Carolinians have felt the adverse effect of one broken promise after another. There is no denying that the dire predictions from the debate have come true. Just ask the millions of Americans who lost the plans they liked after being promised they could keep them. Or the families nationwide who were promised that their annual premiums would go down by $2,500, but have seen premiums go up an average of 41 percent in the individual market. It seems like every day another employer reduces hours or stops offering insurance in response to Obamacare's mandates. These mandates are hurting our economy and families. The President's $2.6 trillion budget busting law used Medicare to fund new entitlements we can't afford and expanded the Medicaid program-a program that nationally some 40 percent of physicians do not even see Medicaid patients-instead of reforming it to better meet patients' needs now and in the future. As Governor Perdue warned, Obamacare's taxes on life-saving medical products threaten our nation's-and North Carolina's-standing as a global leader in medical innovation. It's clear that the current course is unsustainable. Fortunately, for families across North Carolina and our nation, we can lower costs and empower patients in their health care choices and decisions. In stark contrast to Obamacare, the Patient CARE Act, a proposal I unveiled last week with my colleagues Senator Tom Coburn, a physician, and Senator Orrin Hatch, is based on principles that will lower costs and expand access to quality coverage and care by empowering Americans to make their own health care decisions, rather than empowering government to make decisions for them. First, the Patient CARE Act repeals Obamacare-throwing out the burdensome, costly mandates and government regulations and adopting common-sense consumer protections, including prohibiting life-time benefit caps and allowing dependents to stay on their parents' plans until age 26. Under my plan, no individual could be denied coverage based on a pre-existing condition. My plan addresses a distortion in the tax code that drives up health care costs. We cap the exclusion of an employee's employer-provided health care at 65 percent of the total cost of the most generous employer plans on the market, like union plans. Everyone with employer-sponsored health insurance under that amount won't see any change in the tax treatment of their benefit. Unlike Obamacare's "Cadillac tax," which imposes an across the board 40 percent excise tax on the richest benefit plans regardless of an individual's income, under my plan the employee's health benefit above the threshold would be treated as regular income for that employee. And as Ryan Ellis with Americans for Tax Reform pointed out this week, my plan will produce a net tax cut. Every American and every health plan is taxed under Obamacare. Targeted tax credits, adjusted for age and income, will give individuals purchasing power and the opportunity to choose a plan that meets their specific needs. Because we lower costs through medical malpractice reform and increased transparency, these dollars will go further. My plan modernizes Medicaid through a capped allotment, an idea brought forward by the Clinton Administration, to provide states with predictable funding while empowering them with programmatic flexibility to better meet their patients' needs. Under my plan, a Medicaid beneficiary could choose to opt-out of Medicaid and use their tax credit to purchase a plan that better meets their needs. Obamacare failed to reform Medicaid and put this already strained program at greater risk. Defenders of Obamacare claim that there are no alternatives but alternatives existed at the time of the debate and they exist today. Yes, my plan repeals Obamacare, but it also replaces it with reforms that address what was broken before Obamacare, as well as what has been made worse because of it. Opponents who incorrectly characterize my plan as the same old insurance system we had before Obamacare do so as a scare tactic because to acknowledge that there is an alternative that lower costs, increases choices, and covers Americans with pre-existing conditions is to admit that there is a better way than Obamacare. North Carolinians will find the Patient CARE Act is an alternative they can believe in because we believe citizens, not the government, know what's best for themselves and their families"
02.07.2014	02.07.14 U.S. Senator Richard Burr Delivers Weekly Republican Address The Senate will turn to legislation on Monday that would repeal a cut to the cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for some military retirees. While the Democrat COLA proposal would add to the federal deficit, Republicans have introduced legislation that would repeal the COLA cut without adding to the debt. In the Weekly Republican Address, Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina, the ranking Republican on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, highlights a number of other veterans issues, including a dysfunctional VA disability claims system that is plagued by errors and delays and is failing veterans of all ages. "As the nation's military stands down from its war footing, veterans should not have to wage another battle here at home, this time against government bureaucracy," says Burr. The Weekly Republican Address is available in both audio and video format and is embargoed until 6:00 a.m. ET, Saturday, February 8, 2014. The audio of the address is available here, the video will be available here and you may download the address here. A full transcript of the address follows: "I'm Senator Richard Burr from North Carolina, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and I'm honored to speak to you. "Today, all across this great nation of ours, military veterans are going about their lives with the expectation that their sacrifices will be honored and their services will be reciprocated by the government and the people they ably served. "A young Marine sergeant, just back from his third tour in Afghanistan is mulling his future career options after a VA transition seminar; a medically retired Army major, wounded in Iraq, is out on a jog with her husband, getting used to her new prosthetic leg; a Navy SEAL, old beyond his years, is having coffee with a homeless Vietnam vet he met outside the local VA clinic, and a discharged Air Force colonel, with thousands of combat flying hours, is checking his email for some word on his VA disability claim. "Thankfully, over the past five years, Congress has authorized over $600 billion to VA in robust and sustained increases of government funding for veterans' programs designed to be part of a more responsive federal support for veterans outreach and care. "This unprecedented level of support has been especially evident in the area of veterans' benefits, specifically disability payments. The surge in financial support has not been matched with an equivalent surge in responsiveness from the Veterans' Administration. "The now infamous backlog of claims reached a point of national embarrassment last year when a series of biting monologues from comedian Jon Stewart finally elevated the problem to the President's desk and spurred his VA Secretary into action. It was only then we began seeing some signs of incremental progress. "When it takes a comedian to garner a response from our government, we are in bad shape. While the backlog has begun to decline, we still have nearly 700,000 veterans and their families waiting for answers. "Today, claims are often riddled with errors, putting the burden back on veterans to file an appeal. More than a quarter million appeals are waiting to be resolved and the time it takes VA to act on appeals is worsening. As the nation's military stands down from its war footing, veterans should not have to wage another battle here at home, this time against government bureaucracy. "We regularly hear from veterans who are experiencing unacceptable delays and waiting times for mental health counseling and other health services.These delays have real life implications for veterans, especially for those at risk of lapsing back into isolation or a downward spiral that can be difficult to stop. "After Congress heard frustrating accounts from VA whistleblowers, VA is finally taking steps to improve its staffing and responsiveness for mental health concerns and its overall delivery of health care, but more remains to be done. "Our younger veterans are entering civilian life during one of the slowest economic recoveries in our nation's history. Some states have passed laws that issue licenses to veterans, or certifications, for the skillsets they gained while in the military, provided their training met the state's standard.Without reforms such as these that address the problem at its root, many veterans will end up retaking classes or tests they've already passed while in service. "Government has a vital role to play in improving the employment prospects for veterans, but short-term, make-work programs run by government agencies are not the answer to our veterans' long-term needs. "Lastly, I want to take a moment to speak about the problem of homelessness among veterans. In North Carolina, we're trying something new. We're taking private capital and motivated individuals - veterans themselves - and connecting them with government resources at HUD, in the state, and at the local level, to rehabilitate state facilities and provide homeless veterans with not only a place to stay, but a place where they can learn -- particularly the skills that allow them to enter the workforce, or get them the help they really need. "Rather than a top-down, government-centered approach, it's citizen-centered and it's veteran focused. I've introduced legislation to continue to force Washington to change, and to provide real solutions for the needs of our veterans population. "Our veterans understand these are challenging times and that the government is limited in its capacity, but they also have high expectations after the promises that have been made. The American ideals of liberty and opportunity are worth fighting for and preserving for our children. We need to harness some of that same spirit and work together on their behalf. "The answer to these problems will not be found in new offices and new employees in Washington, D.C. "The answer lies with Congress' responsibility to ensure that VA programs are operating in the way they were intended - and meeting the needs of the veterans, not the DC bureaucrats -- and inside the communities that our veterans live in. It's found in the American people, among the faces that greet our returning heroes. "Working together, I know we can ensure that history will say we kept our promise. "Thanks for listening. God bless all the men and women who have served and continue to serve our great country and God bless this great nation."
02.05.2014	02.05.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on the Farm Bill Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on the Farm Bill. The Farm Bill was adopted by the Senate by a vote of 68-32. "Yesterday, I voted against final passage of the Conference Report to accompany HR 2642, the Farm Bill. Not only does it carry a nearly $1 trillion price tag but most of the funding has nothing to do with farming, let alone providing any certainty to farmers. It also fails to include relief to farmers on burdensome GIPSA Restrictions and Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) rules. While I appreciate the efforts of the Conference Committee, its failure to address the crucial needs of North Carolina farmers prevented me from supporting the bill."
01.30.2014	01.30.14 BURR, COBURN, HATCH: ANALYSIS SHOWS THERE IS A BETTER WAY THAN OBAMACARE Analysis by The Center for Health Economy Finds Senators’ Patient CARE Act Will Lower Costs, Provide More Coverage, Improve Health Care System, Reduce Debt Today, The Center for Health Economyreleasedan economic analysis that found that thePatient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility, and Empowerment (CARE) Act- a legislative plan put forward this week by Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Tom Coburn, M.D. (Okla.), and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) - reduces health care costs, lowers premiums, provides more Americans with health care coverage than Obamacare. The analysis found the proposal also increases health care productivity and reduces the nation's debt. "In his State of the Union speech the President spoke about his signature domestic achievement, Obamacare. He said if anyone has a health care plan out there that cuts costs, covers more people and increases choices, to show him the numbers to see if they add up. Mr. President, we have a plan that will add up to lower costs, more choices and cover Americans with pre-existing conditions," Burr, Coburn and Hatch said today. "Today's analysis shows there is a better way than Obamacare. Our plan gives individual Americans greater control over their own health care and asks government bureaucrats to leave the exam room. Using smart insurance market reforms, putting small businesses more on par with Fortune 500 companies, and giving individuals - not government - more tools to make the best decisions for themselves is a prescription for success." The analysis by The Center for Health Economy specifically found that the Patient CARE Act: • Cuts Costs: The Patient CARE Act, compared to current law, will save almost $1.5 trillion over10 years. • Lowers Premiums: The Patient CARE Act will reduce premiums across the board forAmericans compared to current law, with the individual insurance market seeing the biggestreductions of up to 11 percent for single policies. • Expands Coverage: The Patient CARE Act would cover almost the same amount ofAmericans as Obamacare. • Improves Medical Care Productivity: The Patient CARE Act will increase medical productivityby 2 to 3 percent compared to ObamaCare. In other words, it will reduce overall costs, while improving quality. • Reduces the National Debt: The Patient CARE Act will reduce the national debt by decreasingfederal spending by almost $1.5 trillion. Lastly, the Senators stressed that they look forward to receiving input from their colleagues and outside experts to further strengthen and improve their proposal. "Moving forward, we look forward to working with our colleagues and all interested parties to further build upon this proposal as we seek to replace Obamacare with a patient-centered, market-driven system that is affordable, sustainable, and fair," the Senators concluded.
01.28.2014	01.28.14 Senator Burr’s Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on President Obama's State of the Union address: "Tonight, President Obama touched on many issues, most notably on income inequality. But it's as if the President, five years into his term in office, still doesn't understand our country and what makes it work. The greatest achievement of our modern, free society is not the promise of equal outcomes -- history is littered with the wrecks of nations that tried -- but rather equality of opportunity. Unfortunately, the President's policies are destroying opportunities for families and businesses across the country in the misguided belief that tearing down some will benefit all. "The greatest source of opportunity is economic growth. The surest path to economic growth is to free our economy from the ineffective policies that the President has put into place over the five years he has been in office. President Obama has added more debt than all previous presidents combined. Unemployment, and underemployment, remain high. If you count Americans who have stopped looking for work and dropped out of the workforce entirely, it's near record highs. And the income inequality that the President speaks about is higher under his administration than at any point since before the Great Depression. By any measure, our country is less free, more in debt, less respected abroad, and facing a future where prosperity and opportunity are reserved for the few." "It is my wish that the President would stop looking for someone to blame, and instead spend time thinking about how we can reach bipartisan solutions to the issues he laid out this evening. I look forward to the President reaching out for suggestions as how to change the unsustainable path our nation is currently on."
01.27.2014	01.27.14 BURR, COBURN, HATCH UNVEIL OBAMACARE REPLACEMENT PLAN Senate Republican Proposal Lowers Health Care Costs, Increases Access to Affordable, Quality Care Without Government-Centered Regulations, Mandates Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-Okla.), and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) unveiled the Patient Choice, Affordability, Responsibility, and Empowerment (CARE) Act - a legislative plan that repeals Obamacare and then replaces it with common-sense, patient-centered reforms that reduce health care costs and increase access to affordable, high-quality care. In contrast with Obamacare and its government centered mandates and regulations, the Senators' proposal empowers the American people to make the best health care choices for themselves and their families. Following today's release of the plan, the three Senators will work with their Senate colleagues and experts across the health care community to further refine and improve upon the proposal, with the goal of building consensus and introducing legislation. "The American people have found out what is in Obamacare- broken promises in the form of increased health care costs, costly mandates, and government bureaucracy. They don't like it and don't want to keep it," said Burr. "Our nation's health care system was unsustainable before Obamacare, and the President's health care plan made things worse. That's why the Patient CARE proposal repeals Obamacare and focuses on targeted reforms that will lower costs and expand access to quality care. We can lower costs and expand access to quality coverage and care by empowering individuals and their families to make their own health care decisions, rather than empowering the government to make those decisions for them." "For millions of Americans, Obamacare itself has become a preexisting condition that has caused them to lose their insurance, their doctors and their choices. Congress has a responsibility to not only repeal this misguided law but replace it with a plan that will provide better care at a lower cost, and will help preserve programs like Medicaid instead of driving them closer to bankruptcy," said Dr. Coburn. "It is unfortunate the Senate Majority Leader blocked a vote on an alternative in 2009. But it's critical we chart another path forward. Our health care system wasn't working well before Obamacare and it is worse after Obamacare. Americans deserve a real alternative, and a way out. I'm pleased to take this important step with my colleagues." "Forcing too many Americans out of the insurance they have, away from the doctor they trust and, for some, out of the job they need, Obamacare is a disaster. With our plan, we've shown once again that by empowering Americans - not Washington - with the right tools and information, they will make the best informed health care decisions for themselves," said Hatch. "After first repealing the President's health law, we take aim at the chief concerns of the American people - greater economic security by driving down costs and expanding access to high-quality care through increased insurance market competition and reforms. What we've put forward is sustainable and achievable - and without the tax hikes, mandates, and budget-busting spending that have made Obamacare so unpopular with the American people." The Patient CARE Act provides a legislative roadmap to fully repeal the President's health care law, known as Obamacare, and replace the law with common-sense measures that would: Establish sustainable, patient-centered reforms: *Adopt common-sense consumer protections; *Create a new protection to help Americans with pre-existing conditions; *Empower small business and individuals with purchasing power; *Empower states with more tools to help provide coverage while reducing costs; and *Expand and strengthen consumer directed health care. Modernize Medicaid to provide better coverage and care to patients: *Transition to capped allotment to provide states with predictable funding and flexibility; and *Reauthorize Health Opportunity Accounts to empower Medicaid patients. Reduce unnecessary defensive medicine practices and rein in frivolous lawsuits: *Medical Malpractice reforms. Increase health care price transparency to empower consumers and patients: *Requiring basic health care transparency to inform and empower patients. Reduce distortions in the tax code that drive up health care costs: *Capping the exclusion of an employee's employer-provided health coverage. A detailed summary of the proposal can be foundhere. A side-by-side comparison to Obamacare can be foundhere. Frequently asked questions on the proposal can be foundhere. Illustrative examples of how patients -who are harmed by Obamacare- are helped under the proposal can be foundhere. Information on proposal to cap exclusionhere. Information on protecting those with pre-existing conditionshere.
01.15.2014	01.15.14 Congress Passes Bipartisan Legislation to Reauthorize the National Poison Control Network Bipartisan legislation to continue the federal government's vital support for the nation's poison control network sponsored by Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Richard Burr (R-NC) and U.S. Representatives Lee Terry (R-NE) and Eliot Engel (D-NY), passed the House of Representatives last week and passed the Senate last night. Specifically, the bill reauthorizes the poison control center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program. The bill now heads to the President's desk for signature. The Department of Health and Human Services estimates that in any given year there will be between 3-5 million poison exposures. Half of these exposures will involve children under the age of 6 who are exposed to toxins in their home. Poisoning is the second most common form of unintentional injury death in the United States and accounts for 260,000 hospitalizations each year. According to a report from the Institute of Medicine, every dollar spent on poison control center services saves $7 in medical spending. "The Poison Control network is literally a lifeline for millions of Americans," Senator Murray said. "This bill means that parents around the country can breathe a sigh of relief knowing that help is always available." "The Poison Control network is an essential program impacting thousands of lives every year through prevention and treatment efforts at centers across the country," said Senator Burr. "I am pleased that Congress has passed this important bipartisan legislation to give American families the peace of mind to know that help will continue to be there when they need it most." "This legislation helps eliminate costly and unnecessary emergency room visits each year," said Representative Terry. "The professionals who answer the calls at these centers provide expert advice and peace of mind to nearly three million families each year at the moment a loved one ingests a potentially poisonous substance." "Poison centers are a life-saving service for Americans," said Representative Engel. "They offer free medical advice around the clock and are a primary source for poisoning information that can provide reassurances to anxious parents and reduce costly emergency department visits. We owe it to our citizens to continue to make these centers accessible to all Americans." The poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program that will be reauthorized in this bill provide the federal assistance for the nation's network of poison control centers to support poison prevention. There are currently 56 poison control centers (PCCs) nationwide. Each PCC is a medical support facility staffed by toxicologists, nurses, and other professionals operating 24 hours a day seven days a week to provide a free, but critical medical service. The toll-free nationwide poison-control hotline number is 1-800-222-1222.
01.15.2014	01.15.14 Senator Burr Releases Statement on the Intelligence Committee’s Bipartisan Benghazi Report WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding the Intelligence Committee's bipartisan report on the terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya. "Today the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released the most detailed, bipartisan report to date on the September 11, 2012, terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya. The committee's report presents a wide range of declassified findings that will allow the public to more fully understand the deteriorating security situation in Benghazi leading up to the attacks, and the lack of State Department recognition of the danger to our personnel. This bipartisan report is a step forward in our understanding of these events, but should not by any means be viewed as a final verdict. To the extent this report is incomplete, it is not due to the Committee's unwillingness to investigate, but the State Department's intransigence. It is our obligation and duty to continue to ask probing questions and investigate all details as they continue to come to light - as they invariably will. Despite the Committee's best efforts to investigate all relevant threads of information, I still feel strongly that there remains a disappointing lack of accountability. It is my hope that this bipartisan report will serve as a foundation to continue the discussion and search for answers." To access the report,click here.
01.08.2014	01.08.14 GOP Senators Express Concern Over HHS IG Report Citing Insufficient Oversight of Electronic Health Record Program U.S. Senators John Thune (R-S.D.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) today expressed concern over a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Inspector General (IG) report finding insufficient oversight by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) of the $32.7 billion electronic health record (EHR) meaningful use incentive program. The IG found that few, if any, protections have been put in place at CMS or with government contractors to detect or prevent fraud from occurring in the EHR program, and suggested that CMS is still using the outdated practices that were used to review and audit paper health records. "Today's HHS Inspector General's report confirms the concerns we expressed last spring about the need for adequate oversight of the electronic health record program to prevent waste and fraud," said Thune, Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. "I support the use of electronic health record systems as a way to improve health care, but CMS must ensure that the system is not manipulated in a way that allows for overbilling. As the administration continues to implement the next stages of the meaningful use program, CMS must do more to ensure that the technology it approves better protects taxpayer dollars." "Encouraging the use of electronic health care records by doctors, hospitals and other health care providers is about improving care for patients," said Alexander, the senior Republican on the Senate Health Committee. "The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services should be doing everything it can to prevent and stop the fraud and abuse that undermine this crucial innovation in the health care industry and put Medicare at risk of overpaying for care." "Today's HHS IG's report highlighting insufficient practices to protect electronic health records is deeply concerning," said Burr, the senior Republican on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. "It is particularly troubling that the issues raised today are not new, but echo those highlighted by my colleagues and I last year. Today's report is another example of the Administration falling short when it comes to implementation of IT initiatives and only increases my concerns regarding the security of consumer's information under the Affordable Care Act. When it comes to protecting patient's information, the Administration's actions continue to speak louder than their promises. Billions of taxpayer dollars are being spent to advance health information technology under the HITECH Act and the Administration should ensure that the American people's investment is sound and their information secure." "The Inspector General's office has offered an important warning that CMS is failing to adequately oversee the program integrity of its electronic health records program," said Dr. Coburn, the senior Republican on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. "Taxpayers fund the federal incentive payments that help to drive providers' adoption of EHRs, which contain sensitive personal information. CMS has a fundamental responsibility to do a better job of policing and enforcing basic security requirements. I look forward to working with my colleagues who penned the REBOOT report in continuing oversight as needed to ensure CMS takes the necessary precautions to protect taxpayers and patients." "Reducing the opportunities for fraud and removing the incentives for overbilling are vital to improving confidence in electronic health record programs," said Enzi, a senior member of the Senate Health Committee. "The serious issues identified by the Inspector General need to be addressed to protect patient information, improve data security, and reduce waste. I join my colleagues in calling for changes to this program that will put privacy and safety of one's personal information first." "It's unfortunate that another report is being released citing pitfalls in the implementation of electronic health records," said Roberts, the senior Republican on the Senate Rules Committee. "Even more unfortunate is the fact that my colleagues and I have been pointing out these problematic concerns to the Administration for over a year and as this report details little to no response has occurred. Electronic health records are important for the future of our health system, however their implementation must be done in a thorough and conscientious way that ensures all providers are included and leads to the reduction of waste or fraud and not its increase. I will continue to push for an interoperable health IT system but it must protect patient privacy and it must include safeguards against waste, fraud, and abuse." In April of 2013, the group of Republican senators released a white paper, "REBOOT: Re-examining the Strategies Needed to Successfully Adopt Health IT," outlining concerns with current federal health information technology policy, including increased health care costs, lack of momentum toward interoperability, potential waste and abuse, patient privacy, and long-term sustainability.
12.19.2013	12.19.13 Support for ABLE Act Continues to Grow Today, support continued to grow for the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act (ABLE Act - S. 313/H.R. 647), introduced by U.S. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Richard Burr (R-NC), bringing the total number of co-sponsors in the Senate to 60 members. Introduced in the 113th Congress in February, this bill would provide an improved quality of life for individuals with disabilities through tax-free savings accounts. "The ABLE Act is a commonsense piece of legislation that allows families of disabled children to have the same access to tax preferred savings accounts as the parents of college-bound kids," Senator Burr said. "I am very excited that we now have 60 Senators on board and can hopefully expect swift movement on the Senate floor to send this bill to the President." "This is a significant step forward for the ABLE Act and for the families of children with disabilities," Senator Casey said. "Now that this bill has 60 cosponsors, I'm urging the Senate to take action on it in the new year. The fact that only 6 bills in all of Congress have this many cosponsors is a sign of the overwhelming support for this effort to make a major difference in the lives of these families." The legislation would amend Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Service Code to 1986 to allow use of tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities. The bill, first introduced in 2006, would ease financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, medical, and transportation. The bill would supplement, but not supplant, benefits provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program, the beneficiary's employment, and other sources.
12.17.2013	12.17.13 Burr Cuts Wasteful Spending, Improves Efficiency by Combining Dept. of Labor and Commerce Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced a bill that would consolidate the Department of Labor and the Department of Commerce into a single, new agency called the Department of Commerce and the Workforce (DOCW). The bill would provide cost savings by combining duplicative functions and improve the quality of our country's economic policies by ensuring a consistent, coordinated approach. "Duplicative programs cost the federal government staggering amounts of money every year," Sen. Burr said. "The president has proposed merging and consolidating federal agencies several times over his two terms, and this bill advances that proposal. Combining offices with similar functions within these two agencies is a common-sense approach that reduces wasteful spending and would streamline our approach to comprehensive economic policy." "Congress should take every opportunity to consolidate and restrict the power of big government and return control to the individual states," said Sen. Inhofe. "Commerce and Labor began as one agency but has overgrown into two duplicative Departments. I am honored to sponsor this legislation with Sen. Burr that will save the taxpayers money, tame our growing government, and increase the efficiency of its' essential services." "In Indiana, Hoosiers have worked hard to save taxpayer dollars by streamlining government to make it leaner and more effective," said Sen. Coats. "This bill is one way to apply the Indiana model in Washington. By consolidating agencies, we can eliminate duplicative and wasteful spending and take a step toward fiscal responsibility." By increasing the coordination of federal offices, the newly merged DOCW will be better positioned to promote economic growth and workforce protections. The Department would preserve the independent functions of both agencies and would not make changes to specific policy. In addition to combining Commerce and Labor programs and offices with substantially similar missions, the bill would combine the support and administrative offices of the two agencies and would eliminate wasteful and duplicative programs, according to recommendations from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The bill will also implement the Bowles-Simpson Commission's recommendation to place the Small Business Administration (SBA) with the Department of Commerce in the new consolidated agency and will transfer the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) from Commerce to the Department of the Interior. To read more about the bill, click here. Current co-sponsors of the legislation are Senators Dan Coats (R- Indiana) and James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma).
12.17.2013	12.17.13 Senator Burr To Oppose Cloture on the Ryan-Murray Budget Agreement Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) issued the following statement regarding his intention to oppose cloture on the Ryan-Murray budget agreement. "While I applaud Chairman Ryan's efforts to prevent another government shutdown, I have decided upon further review to oppose allowing this bill to move forward. After reviewing in detail the significant changes made to the Senate budget rules that would allow Senate Democrats to circumvent the 60-vote threshold in order to pass a tax increase or increase spending, I have determined I cannot support cloture on the agreement."
12.09.2013	12.09.13 Senator Burr Introduces Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013 Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Kilah Davenport Child Protection Act of 2013, which mirrors H.R. 3627 that was passed by the House Judiciary Committee last week. "What happened to Kilah Davenport is tragic and should never happen to any child. My heart goes out to the Davenport family, and I hope that this legislation will play at least a small role in ensuring the care and protection of our children," said Senator Richard Burr. Named after Kilah Davenport, a young girl born and raised in North Carolina who was the victim of severe abuse, this bill would require the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to issue a report detailing penalties for child abuse in each state, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories. Additionally, this bill addresses child abuse in areas where the federal government has responsibility by clarifying that previous convictions of child abuse can lead to criminal penalties for the offense of domestic assault by a habitual offender.
12.05.2013	12.05.13 Senator Burr Statement on the Passing of Nelson Mandela Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in reaction to the passing of Nelson Mandela: "Nelson Mandela's compassion and humility in the face of overwhelming adversity remains an inspiration. The people of South Africa will forever be in debt for his role in ending apartheid, and the rest of the world inspired by his leading a divided nation into a new, prosperous era. Today, we all mourn his passing, but take comfort in the enduring lessons of his life that will live forever."
11.21.2013	11.21.13 Burr: Exercise of ‘Nuclear Option’ Threatens Bipartisanship and Paves Way for More Laws Like Obamacare Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement in reaction to Majority Leader Harry Reid's move to invoke the 'nuclear option' to make major changes to the longstanding rules of the Senate: "The American people know what they get when the Senate removes the 60-vote threshold and the minority is stripped of its rights: they get unchecked power by the Executive Branch. The President and Harry Reid might not like the American people playing a role in outcomes through the minority, but it has worked well for over 200 years. This change is a blatant attempt to change the debate about the Democrats' health care plan as the consequences of this disastrous law are felt around the country, but it has ramifications far beyond the debate surrounding Obamacare. Rather than advance legislation and nominate judges that are capable of receiving bipartisan support in the United States Senate, the President and the Democrat majority want their legislation, their way—and they want to change the Senate rules to pack the courts with judges who agree with them. Make no mistake; these actions pave the way for more laws like Obamacare and will do lasting damage to bipartisanship, the Senate, and the nation."
11.20.2013	11.20.13 Senators Burr, Casey, and Fellow Supporters Urge Passage of ABLE Act With more than half of the United States Congress supporting the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act (ABLE Act - S. 313/H.R. 647), U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Robert Casey (D-PA), and a bipartisan, bicameral group of bill co-sponsors and supporters called on Congress to pass the ABLE Act and provide an improved quality of life for individuals with disabilities through tax-free savings accounts. Introduced in the 113th Congress in February, the ABLE Act has earned 50 Senate co-sponsors, 305 House co-sponsors, and is backed by more than 50 local, state, and national disability advocacy groups, including the National Down Syndrome Society, Autism Speaks, and The Arc. Burr, the lead Republican sponsor in the Senate, said: "The ABLE Act is a commonsense piece of legislation that provides individuals with disabilities and their families with the resources to plan for a sound financial future while continuing to improve the quality of their lives today. I am pleased to see such overwhelming bipartisan, bicameral support for this important bill and look forward to its consideration in the Senate." Casey, the lead Democratic sponsor in the Senate, said: "The ABLE Act is commonsense bipartisan legislation that will help make it easier for those families to save for their children's future care, and we should pass it immediately. Individuals with disabilities and their families face challenges many of us can't even begin to imagine. They deserve some assurance that they will be able to adequately plan for expenses. " Congressman Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) said: "Support for tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities stands at its highest level ever - testament to the tireless dedication of those who believe that ALL Americans deserve equality when it comes to financial planning tools. It's time to pass this legislation and create a brighter future for those in need. " Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX) said: "The support we've seen in the 113th Congress for the ABLE Act is encouraging, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on moving this important legislation forward. As the father of a young man with Down syndrome, I am committed to finding ways to enhance the quality of life and maximize the potential for all individuals with disabilities. I strongly believe that allowing families to form tax-free savings accounts to cover certain expenses like education and housing will create a brighter future for our loved ones with disabilities." Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) said: "With 305 Members of the House of Representatives co-sponsoring the bipartisan ABLE Act, the time for action is now. This legislation will give people with disabilities and their families the opportunity to take charge of their own lives and their futures. We live in a nation where everyone has the right to reach for their full potential. The ABLE Act is a commonsense step forward for these hardworking Americans." Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodger (R-WA) said: "As the mom of a son with Down syndrome, I know that too often, federal policies limit those with disabilities and make them dependent on the government. When my son Cole was born, my husband and I were advised not to put any assets in Cole's name because it would penalize him if he needed to qualify for a government program someday. There are millions of other parents in the same situation - parents who would like to help their children improve their quality of life without jeopardizing their access to benefits. That's why we must pass the ABLE Act. This commonsense bill would allow parents to save for their children's future and give kids with disabilities a chance to live the American Dream. I hope Congress acts swiftly to pass this legislation and get it to the President's desk." Sara Weir, National Down Syndrome Society Vice President of Advocacy & Affiliate Relations, said: "There is no other bill in the U.S. Congress that has as much bipartisan, bicameral support as the ABLE Act. People with disabilities can't wait any longer for the passage of the ABLE Act. Passing this landmark legislation will go a long way to help people with Down syndrome and other disabilities realize and achieve their own hopes, dreams, and aspirations." Stuart Spielman, Senior Policy Advisory and Counsel for Autism Speaks, said: "In the next 10 years, a half-million children with autism will age into adulthood. The staggering level of housing, transportation, and other support services that will be required for this population demand common sense solutions such as ABLE." Marty Ford, Senior Executive Officer, Public Policy, The Arc, said: "The Arc has long supported the ABLE Act, and we will continue to stand behind this important piece of legislation until it is finally passed. This bill will give individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their families a planning tool that can guide their path to financial security. Most importantly, it does so without jeopardizing their access to other necessary services provided by federal programs. With more than half of Congress supporting this bill, we are hopeful that the 113th Congress will pass the ABLE Act so that people with disabilities and their families can begin using this important tool." The legislation would amend Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Service Code to 1986 to create tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities. The bill, first introduced in 2006, would ease financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, medical, and transportation. The bill would supplement, but not supplant, benefits provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program, the beneficiary's employment, and other sources.
11.19.2013	11.19.13 Coats Bill to Protect Integrity of National Cemeteries Clears the Senate Senate passage of Alicia Dawn Koehl Respect for National Cemeteries Act one step closer to law Senator Dan Coats (R-Ind.) today praised the Senate's passage of the Alicia Dawn Koehl Respect for National Cemeteries Act, (S.1471), legislation he introduced that would give the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Department of the Army the authority to disinter veterans buried in national cemeteries who have committed a Federal or State capital crime. The bill passed the Senate unanimously on Monday evening. "I truly wish the events that prompted the need for this legislation never occurred in the first place," said Coats. "My office and I have been working for more than a year with the Koehl family and the VA to remedy this unacceptable mistake. I am pleased the Senate unanimously passed my bill to help give the Koehl family a sense of closure and to protect the integrity of our national cemeteries." "The men and women who have served our country are heroes and deserve to be honored when they pass; however, veterans who have committed a capital crime should not be allowed to be laid to rest in one of our national cemeteries among these brave individuals," said Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs and a cosponsor of the bill. "A military burial is one of the greatest honors we can bestow on our men and women in uniform and should not include those who have committed such heinous acts." Specifically, the bill would give the VA the authority it needs to exhume the remains of Michael LaShawn Anderson, who shot and killed Indianapolis resident Alicia Dawn Koehl on May 30, 2012. After learning that Anderson was buried at Fort Custer National Cemetery, the Koehl family requested that the VA disinter his remains. The VA rejected the request, claiming it does not have the authority to exhume the remains of an ineligible veteran who is mistakenly buried in one of their cemeteries. Current law prohibits persons who "have committed a Federal or State capital crime but were unavailable for trial due to death" from being given the honor of a burial in a national cemetery. Coats added, "As a veteran myself, I have the deepest respect for those who have worn the uniform to serve our country, but no veteran who commits a state or federal capital crime should be given the honor of a military burial and be laid to rest next to our nation's heroes. That is the law today and my bill allows the VA and Defense Department to ensure the law is followed." Coats introduced the Alicia Dawn Koehl Respect for National Cemeteries Act on August 1, 2013. Representative Susan W. Brooks (R-Ind.) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. Click here for a copy of the legislation.
11.18.2013	11.18.13 Senate Education Committee Members Announce Task Force to Review Higher Ed Regulations and Reporting Requirements Task force of higher ed officials and experts will identify ways to reduce and streamline confusing or costly regulations Senate education committee Ranking Member Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), and members Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), and Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) today announced the formation of a task force to examine burdens on institutions of higher education. The Task Force on Government Regulation of Higher Education will conduct a comprehensive review of federal regulations and reporting requirements affecting colleges and universities and make recommendations to reduce and streamline regulations, while protecting students, institutions and taxpayers. Alexander said: "Let's face it: the federal government has become one of the greatest obstacles to innovation in higher education. The stack of federal regulations on colleges and universities today is not the result of evil doers, it is simply the piling up of well-intentioned laws and regulations without anyone spending an equal amount of time weeding the garden first. This task force will help Congress weed the garden." Mikulski said: "In order for America to out-build and out-innovate the rest of the world, we must first out-educate. And part of out-educating is making sure that we are supporting our institutions of higher education - helping them be them as they work to educate our next generation. Over the years, I have heard concerns from these institutions regarding federal requirements that, while well-intentioned, often end up being duplicative and burdensome.I have committed to seeing what can be done. We need to regulate, not strangulate. As this Task Force works on a path forward, it will be well-served through the leadership of the University System of Maryland's own Dr. William 'Brit' Kirwan, bringing with him a wealth of knowledge and experience." Burr said: "The tidal wave of regulations and reporting requirements faced by colleges and universities today is stifling innovation and, worse, raising college tuition price tags as schools pass on these compliance costs to students. This task force will assemble experts and stakeholders to help streamline regulations and reduce the unnecessary burdens on institutions of higher education. Bennet said: "We must create an environment where our colleges and universities are focused on doing what they do best, and that's educating students to succeed in the 21st century economy. To do that, we must to take a step back and consider how the current requirements are helping or affecting that goal. This task force offers the opportunity to take a broad look at federal regulations and requirements in order to inform our reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. What we need is a system that makes sense for students and for colleges and universities." The task force is co-chaired by Nicholas Zeppos, chancellor of Vanderbilt University, and William Kirwan, chancellor of the University System of Maryland. It will comprise 14 college and university presidents and higher education experts. The American Council on Education will provide organizational assistance. In letters to request participation in the task force, the senators wrote: "Our higher education system remains the best in the world and is often credited for its breadth of choice and commitment to institutional autonomy. Over the past decade, however, Congress and the U.S. Department of Education have added more mandates, reporting requirements and regulations with which institutions must comply. This Task Force creates an opportunity to conduct a comprehensive review of federal regulations and reporting requirements affecting colleges and universities and make recommendations to Congress and the Administration to streamline and reduce federal regulations, while at the same time maintaining student and taxpayer protections." Senator Alexander earlier this year discussed the creation of the task force with Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Tom Harkin as a means to provide the HELP Committee and Chairman Harkin with information and recommendations as part of the ongoing hearings and discussions about the 10th reauthorization of the Higher Education Act.
11.18.2013	11.18.13 Senate Health Policy Leaders Hail Passage of Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Safety of Compounded Drugs, Track All Prescription Drugs; Bill Now Heads to the President’s Desk Bipartisan, Bicameral Drug Quality and Security Act Endorsed by Community Pharmacists, State Health Officials, and Dozens of Other Stakeholder Groups Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA), Ranking Member Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and HELP Committee members Senator Al Franken (D-MN), Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today hailed Senate passage of legislation to help ensure the safety of compounded drugs and to track all prescription drugs from the time they are manufactured to the moment they are picked up at the drugstore. The Drug Quality and Security Act reflects a bipartisan, bicameral effort to address these drug safety and security issues. It is aimed at helping prevent a future public health crisis like the 2012 meningitis outbreak tied to the New England Compounding Center and securing the pharmaceutical supply chain. The bill has now cleared both houses of Congress and will go on to the President to be signed into law. "Just over one year ago, a widespread fungal meningitis outbreak brought attention to the legal and regulatory gaps that allowed owners and managers at the New England Compounding Center to disregard basic procedures to ensure that the products they were manufacturing were sterile. This gross negligence had heartbreaking consequences for families nationwide," Harkin said. "And the contamination at the NECC was not an isolated incident: over the last decade, patients have suffered a range of grievous—even fatal—infections as a result of compounded drugs that were contaminated or improperly formulated." "This bipartisan bill represents a monumental step forward for drug safety and is a testament to what Congress can achieve when Democrats and Republicans work together," Harkin continued. "This legislation will improve the safety of compounded drugs as well as establish an unprecedented tracing system that will, for the first time ever, track prescription drugs from manufacturing to distribution, thereby thwarting drug counterfeiters. Americans must have the confidence that their drugs— whether obtained at a hospital, at a doctor's office, or at the pharmacy counter—are safe, and that is exactly what this bill does." Alexander said: "We have worked for a year to find a solution that would help prevent a repeat of the tragic meningitis outbreak that has killed 16 Tennesseans and made so many others so sick. Those Tennesseans deserve this bill, which will make it clear exactly who is in charge of overseeing each compounding facility, so there will be no questions about who's on the flagpole. "Patients in Minnesota and around the country should be able to trust that the medications they are taking are safe, but we've seen that hasn't always happened. But I'm pleased that with the passage of this bipartisan legislation, we've taken an important step forward in helping give patients a little more peace of mind about their prescriptions," Franken said. "While we still have more work to do, the passage of this legislation marks real progress in preventing another outbreak like the one that happened last year." Roberts added, "I became involved in this issue after a Kansas City pharmacist risked thousands of patient lives with illegal practices. After the deadly meningitis outbreak caused by contaminated medication, a bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers came together with industry stakeholders and made a concerted effort to prevent tragedies like these from ever occurring again. This legislation protects traditional pharmacies, while giving patients more confidence in the quality and safety of their compounded drugs." "After years of bipartisan work in Congress and feedback from business and stakeholders, we're glad that this bill has passed and is on its way to the President's desk for his signature," Bennet said. "We know more from a barcode on a gallon of milk than on a bottle of prescription drugs, which could mean the difference between life and death. Whether it is through a stronger drug supply chain that strengthens our national security or better oversight for compounded drugs, this commonsense bill will help restore confidence in our prescription drugs and protect our families from any potential health risks." Burr said: "After years of hard work, I am very proud to see this bill sent to the President to be signed into law. This bipartisan bill reflects a collaborative effort to produce balanced legislation that appropriately responds to the tragic meningitis outbreak over the past year and proactively puts in place uniform, workable standards that will provide stakeholders with critical regulatory certainty and give patients renewed confidence in the safety and security of our nation's pharmaceutical drug supply chain. I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their hard work and steadfast commitment to seeing this process through to the end." A broad range of stakeholders, including the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, the Pew Charitable Trusts, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Community Pharmacists Association, the Federation of American Hospitals, Premier Healthcare Alliance, the American Medical Student Association, the American Public Health Association, the Annie Appleseed Foundation, the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, the Center for Science and Democracy, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Center for Medical Consumers, Community Catalyst, the Connecticut Center for Patient Safety, the National Association of County and City Health Officials, the Ovarian Cancer National Alliance, Trust for America's Health, the Healthcare Distribution Management Association, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Security Alliance, the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, PharMEDium, the Biotechnology Industry Organization, the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, Pfizer, UPS, and Richie's Specialty Pharmacy endorsed the Drug Quality and Security Act. Excerpts from their endorsements can be seen here. A summary of the bill follows. Title I One year ago, the meningitis outbreak tied to contaminated compounded drugs from the New England Compounding Center alerted the nation that providers and patients need sources of safe compounded drugs. Following the outbreak, a bipartisan group of HELP Committee Senators— led by Chairman Harkin, Ranking Member Alexander, Sen. Franken, and Sen. Roberts—developed legislation to help ensure that quality compounded drugs are available to patients and providers who need them. Among other highlights, the legislation: Distinguishes compounders engaged in traditional pharmacy practice from those making large volumes of compounded drugs without individual prescriptions. Compounders who wish to practice outside the scope of traditional pharmacy practice can register as outsourcing facilities, but those who choose to remain traditional pharmacies will continue to be primarily regulated by State Boards of Pharmacy as they are in current law. Defines the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) role in oversight of outsourcing facilities. Outsourcing facilities would be subject to FDA oversight in much the same way as traditional manufacturers. FDA will know who these outsourcers are and what they are making, receive adverse event reports about compounded drugs, and have the authority and resources to conduct risk-based inspections. The legislation will give providers and patients the option of purchasing products from outsourcing facilities that comply with FDA quality standards. Offers providers and patients better information about compounded drugs. The legislation directs FDA to make a list of FDA-regulated outsourcing facilities available on FDA's website, requires detailed labeling on compounded drugs, and prohibits false and misleading advertising. Clarifies current federal law regarding pharmacy compounding. The legislation strikes unconstitutional provisions in current law, resolving the patchwork of current federal regulation and applying a uniform standard nationwide. Title II Chairman Harkin, Ranking Member Alexander, Sen. Bennet, and Sen. Burr have developed track and trace legislation that improves patient safety by replacing today's patchwork of state product tracing laws with a strong, uniform standard that would ultimately result in electronic, interoperable unit level product tracing for the entire country. The last comprehensive effort to establish safeguards for the drug distribution supply chain was twenty-five years ago. This bipartisan, bicameral draft is the result of several years of work to address the growing problem of pharmaceutical theft, counterfeiting, and diversion. Among other highlights, the legislation: Develops a workable pathway to unit-level tracing in a decade. Over the course of seven years, the major sectors of the pharmaceutical supply chain, such as manufacturers, repackagers, wholesale distributors, and dispensers will all be passing and holding onto key information about each drug's distribution history. Within ten years, supply chain stakeholders will participate in electronic, interoperable product tracing. Strengthens licensure requirements for wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers. Wholesale distributors will have higher standards for their licenses nationwide, and third-party logistics providers will be recognized for the first time as a part of the drug supply chain. FDA will also keep a database of wholesalers that will be available to the public through the FDA's website, allowing consumers and members of the drug supply chain to identify appropriately licensed wholesalers. Establishes nationwide drug serial numbers. Four years after the date of enactment, manufacturers will serialize drugs in a consistent way across the industry. This will allow for efficient tracing to respond to recalls and notices of theft and counterfeiting.
11.14.2013	11.14.13 Burr: President Obama’s “Fix” Will Not Work Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in response to President Obama's announced proposal to grandfathered insurance plans: "President Obama's attempt at political damage control today did absolutely nothing to provide relief for the damage already inflicted on individuals who already had health care coverage and the entire health care industry as a result of Obamacare. If anything, the president only dug himself further into a hole by putting forth an unworkable proposal that will amount to nothing more than another broken promise. Following the president's announcement, both state insurance commissioners and insurers themselves rightfully expressed concerns about the feasibility of implementing the proposed change, the uncertainty it would create, and its effectiveness at addressing the underlying problems that are causing cancellation notices to be sent and premiums to skyrocket. Even many Democrats in Congress have come forward saying the president's about-face is not adequate to reverse the train wreck that is Obamacare. Instead of trying to shift blame and transfer ownership of this disastrous law, President Obama should accept reality and work with Congress to replace this law with commonsense, patient-centered reforms."
11.12.2013	11.12.13 Senators Burr, Coburn, Chambliss Reintroduce Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity Act Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tom Coburn (R-OK), and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) reintroduced the Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity Act to address long-term liabilities facing the federal government. The legislation would end the defined benefit pension portion of the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) for new federal government hires starting six months after enactment, leaving fully in place the Thrift Savings Plan with the current match (up to 5%) for both current and future federal workers. The bill would also apply to Members of Congress. "Right now, federal government workers receive far more generous retirement benefits than private sector employees. The cost to taxpayers of these benefits is unsustainable and we simply cannot afford it," said Sen. Burr. "We cannot ask taxpayers to continue to foot the bill for public employee benefits that are far more generous than their own." "Generous pension plans for members of Congress have helped turn congressional service into a career rather than a calling," said Dr. Coburn. "At the same time, federal workers enjoy a better benefits package and higher overall pay than most taxpayers - even at a time when many Americans are still simply looking for a job. This status quo is unsustainable and needs to be reformed." "With America now $17 trillion in debt, we simply cannot continue to commit to future government spending," said Sen. Chambliss. "Americans have demanded their leaders make the necessary changes to our fiscal policies to put our nation on a track to sustain economic growth and real job creation. The Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity Act is a small change that will have a big impact on our debt and deficit." Currently, federal workers enjoy both a defined benefit pension and a Thrift Savings Plan (equivalent to a 401(k)) with up to a 5% match, paid for by the taxpayers. The average private sector employee gets a 401(k) with a 3% employer match and no pension. Federal workers also continue to enjoy federal health care benefits (FEHBP) after they retire, a benefit that is becoming increasingly rare in the private sector. The legislation will require the Administration to make the annual report on the actuarial status of the federal retirement system publically available online by January 31st each year. According to the most recent Office of Personnel Management's Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund annual report, the FERS system is currently underfunded by $20.1 billion for fiscal year 2012. In the coming years, as more of the retirement burden falls on the FERS system, the required federal government contributions to FERS will skyrocket, especially in comparison to what federal workers will put into the system. In 2012, the Federal government contributed about $22.2 billion to FERS. By 2065, those required contributions will rise to $239.5 billion, with the government paying out $415.3 billion in benefits. Current federal government employees and retirees would not be impacted by the changes in the Burr-Coburn-Chambliss bill. Click here to learn more.
11.11.2013	11.11.13 Senator Burr's Statement on Veterans Day Veterans Day is a time when we look back and reflect on the service and sacrifice of our nation's service-members and veterans. These individuals selflessly give of themselves to defend our freedoms,and we are constantly humbled by their strength and courage. While we may never repay the debt borne by those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, we must never waiver in our commitment to honor their memory by caring for those who continue the fight. Those who have returned from war are forever changed by their experiences. Some return with serious physical injuries, others return with severe invisible wounds, and many continue struggle to reintegrate back into their communities. Veterans Day is an important reminder that much remains to be done on behalf of the warriors who need more than our passing sentiments and our good intentions. We must remind ourselves that their survival and success is not assured, and their toughest days of rehabilitation and re-integration often lie ahead.
11.07.2013	11.07.13 Senator Burr Commends the Passage of the Helping Homeless Veterans Act of 2013 Last night, the United States Senate passed S. 287, the Helping Homeless Veterans Act of 2013 which contained several provisions cosponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. This important legislation will help the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) meet its goal to eliminate veteran homelessness by 2015 and address barriers homeless veterans face accessing VA's homeless programs and becoming permanently housed. "Our veterans served our country with honor and they should not be forgotten when they return home," Burr said. "Helping homeless veterans get off the street and back on their feet is our obligation, and this legislation is an important step in that direction. I thank my colleagues for continued support and look forward to working with them as this bill moves forward in the legislative process." In 2009, VA set a goal to eliminate veteran homelessness by 2015, uniting the country around this effort. In collaboration with other Federal, State, Local, Tribal, and Community partners, VA offers a variety of veteran-centered services to meet the needs of homeless veterans including, medical, dental, and mental health care, outreach to high risk populations, and a number of housing solutions. In addition, VA and its partners also provide preventive services to those veterans at risk of becoming homeless, such as foreclosure prevention, financial assistance for homelessness prevention and rapid re-housing, employment and job placement services, education opportunities, and substance abuse treatment. Since 2009, there has been a 17 percent decline in the number of homeless veterans. However, according to the latest homeless count conducted in January 2012, there were still more than 62,000 homeless veterans. VA's FY 2011 Community Homelessness Assessment, Local Education and Networking Group (CHALENG) report identified access to legal services as one of the top unmet needs among homeless veterans. Additionally, there are still several barriers that prevent homeless women from utilizing VA programs, which were identified in several audits conducted by both the Department's Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office over the past two years. Both legal services and women's issues are addressed in the legislation. To read more about the Helping Homeless Veterans Act of 2013, click here for the one-page summary.
11.07.2013	11.07.13 Senator Burr Statement on Congressman Coble’s Retirement Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in reaction to Congressman Howard Coble's announcement that he plans to retire at the end of his term after 30 years as U.S. Representative for North Carolina's 6th Congressional District: "Congressman Coble has been a steadfast voice for North Carolina in Washington for nearly 30 years and he will be sorely missed," said Senator Burr. "Having served with Howard for many years, I am proud to call him a friend and mentor. Brooke and I wish him all the best in his retirement and thank him for his service to our great state and the entire nation."
10.30.2013	10.30.13 Burr: Older Americans Act Funding Formula Should Ensure That the Dollars Follow the Senior Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced an amendment during the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) mark-up of the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act (OAA) to fix the funding formula to ensure that funds are fairly and appropriately allocated to the states based on each state's population of older Americans today. The amendment was defeated by a 7-14 vote. "The current funding formula for the Older Americans Act is both outdated and unfair," said Senator Burr. "Allocating funds based on 13-year-old data penalizes states like North Carolina who have fast growing populations of seniors and distorts funding so that these states do not get their fair share. It is time to update this formula to ensure that the dollars flow to where the seniors actually are today. While all of my colleagues conceded that I was right and the formula is in fact broken, a conclusion reached by the GAO three years ago, I was disappointed that they chose to again ignore the issue and do nothing to fix this inequity. The Older Americans Act provides access to services through a network of state and local communities committed to caring for older Americans to help them remain in their homes and communities, with specific emphasis on those seniors with the greatest social and economic needs. The OAA funding formula generally allocates federal funds to states based on the proportion of older adults in each state. However, the previous reauthorization in 2006 included a "hold harmless" provision that prevents states from falling below their FY06 funding levels, which bases the formula on population numbers from 2000 and therefore does not account for the changes in older adult populations. The Burr Amendment would strike the "hold harmless" provision and ensure that funding allotments are based on current senior populations. Click here to learn more.
10.23.2013	10.23.13 Senator Burr to Host Medal Ceremony for Mr. Joseph Carter U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will host a medal ceremony for Mr. Joseph Carter of Caswell County, North Carolina. Mr. Carter will receive the following awards for his exemplary service and sacrifice during the Vietnam War: Purple Heart - For wounds received in connection with military operations against a hostile force. Bronze Star Medal with "V" Device - The Bronze Star Medal is awarded to individuals who, while serving in the United States Armed Forces in a combat theater, distinguish themselves by heroism, outstanding achievement or by meritorious service not involving aerial flight. Recipients of the Bronze Star Medal are entitled to wear a "V" device on the ribbon bar and suspension ribbon if the Medal is awarded for heroism in combat. National Defense Service Medal - Awarded for honorable active service for any period between 1 January 1961 and 14 August 1974. Good Conduct Medal Awarded to any enlisted member of the United States Army who completes three consecutive years of "honorable and faithful service." - Awarded to any enlisted member of the United States Army who completes three consecutive years of "honorable and faithful service." Vietnam Service Medal - Awarded to all members of the Armed Forces of the United States serving in Vietnam and contiguous waters or airspace thereover, after 3 July 1965 through 28 March 1973. Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device Expert Badge with Rifle Bar Sharpshooter Badge and Mortar Bar Details of the event are below. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Thursday, October 24, 2013 11:30am Senator Burr Hosts Medal Ceremony for Mr. Joseph Carter 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC
10.21.2013	10.21.13 GAO Report Highlights Shortcomings in FDA Review Process for New Tobacco Products Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) offered reaction to the release of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report at the Senator's request to examine the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Center for Tobacco Products' (CTP) regulatory review process for new tobacco products. The GAO report concludes the CTP has failed to review new tobacco product submissions under the substantially equivalent (SE) pathway in a timely manner. "This GAO report highlights that CTP has significantly underperformed in its mission to review new tobacco product submissions," said Senator Burr. "It is clear that meaningful improvements need to be made to address FDA's shortcomings to ensure a predictable regulatory review pathway and greater accountability for meeting performance goals in a timely manner. The FDA should begin by immediately implementing the GAO's recommendations to set time frames for making final decisions on tobacco product submissions and establish performance metrics to monitor the agency's ability to meet performance goals and time frames." The Tobacco Control Act of 2009 gave FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products and authorizes the agency to assess and collect user fees from manufacturers for CTP's regulatory activities. The SE review pathway for the two types of submissions - provisional and regular - includes three key steps: jurisdictional review, completeness review and scientific review to determine if the tobacco product is substantially equivalent to a product on the market prior to February 2007. The GAO report concluded that since 2009, FDA has collected over $1.1 billion in tobacco user fees - but as of today, has only made final decisions for 17tobacco products out of the 3,788 total SE submissions in the 3 years since FDA received the first SE submission in June 2010. This GAO report identifies CTP's shortcomings and makes recommendations that the agency can take to operate more efficiently and effectively. Specifically, CTP should start by establishing performance measures, including setting time frames for final decisions on tobacco product submissions to ensure regulatory certainty and accountability. Click here to learn more. You can read the full report here.
10.16.2013	10.16.13 Senator Burr Supports Bipartisan Plan to Reopen Government and Prevent Default WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding today's vote to reopen the government and extend the debt limit: "From the outset, I have been clear that I believed that defunding Obamacare by shutting down the federal government was unachievable. The decision to shut down the government has been viewed, rightfully, by the American people as irresponsible governing. Today, I voted for a package that would reopen the government, extend the debt limit, secure a deadline for bipartisan, bicameral agreement on an actual budget, and require the Administration to enforce anti-fraud provisions for those who receive Obamacare subsidies. It is time we move on from this episode, begin the reforms needed in our entitlement programs and the tax code, address the rampant waste, fraud, and abuse in government spending, and get back to creating an environment that allows for economic expansion and job creation."
09.27.2013	09.27.13 Senator Burr's Statement on Continuing Resolution I have voted 56 times to defeat, dismantle, and defund Obamacare. When Obamacare was first brought before the Senate in 2009, my fellow Republicans and I on the HELP Committee did everything in our power to stop this bill from moving forward. After Democrats rammed it through committee on a straight party-line vote, Senator Coburn and I spent countless hours on the Senate floor to rally against the bill and used every procedural tactic at our disposal to block its passage. Unfortunately, the 2008 elections gave Democrats an overwhelming majority in Washington, which they used to force Obamacare into law. I believed then, as I do now, that Obamacare would be a disaster for the American people. The evidence since its passage has confirmed our worst fears-it is putting a wet blanket on job creation, squeezing more of Americans' hard-earned take-home pay, increasing health care costs, and decreasing access to quality healthcare. That is why my colleagues and I have never given up the fight to repeal this law in its entirety and replace it with patient-centered reforms that increase access and affordability to quality care and put patients and doctors back in charge. I voted today to advance the exact bill that a handful of my colleagues asked for. Filibustering such a bill is not only the height of hypocrisy, but also lays bare for the world the hollowness of this so-called strategy. Continuing resolution or not, Obamacare will get funded because it is largely made up of mandatory programs. A legislative strategy that takes into account neither the rules of the Senate nor the mechanics of the law you are seeking to dismantle is not much of a strategy, and making things up on the fly is not responsible governing. Instead, I will continue to work with my colleagues to bring people together to pursue serious legislative proposals to get rid of Obamacare, and make the case to the American people of the dangers of this disastrous law.
09.26.2013	09.26.13 CARDIN, BURR, MENENDEZ LEAD SENATE IN RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL INFANT MORTALITY AWARENESS MONTH U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ), led the Senate in a bipartisan effort this week to increase awareness about infant mortality and access to prenatal care in the United States. In a resolution (S.Res.258) passed unanimously by the Senate, Cardin, Burr and Menendez commemorated September as National Infant Mortality Awareness Month. They called upon the Department of Health and Human Services and other entities to spread awareness of the contributing factors of infant mortality and critical prevention efforts that can and should be taken to reduce the number of infant deaths. Each year in the U.S. nearly 500,000 babies are born prematurely, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. An estimated 25,000 infants die before their first birthday. "Despite being one of the wealthiest nations on earth, too many American babies are dying before their first birthday. National Infant Mortality Awareness Month presents the opportunity to educate Americans about infant mortality and its contributing factors, including low birth weight, and to recommit ourselves to expanding access to prenatal care," said Senator Cardin. "Infant mortality is a particularly acute problem in minority communities and those with high rates of unemployment and poverty. We've made progress in some areas, but we must attack this problem more aggressively." "Community-based programs, such as outreach, home visitation, case management, and health education may help substantially reduce infant mortality," said Senator Burr. "This resolution is a small way to recognize and support efforts to reduce infant deaths, low birth weight, pre-term births, and disparities in perinatal outcomes through continued education about infant mortality and the contributing factors." "There is no greater tragedy for any parent than losing a child, and it is a national tragedy that so many babies in this country - especially in minority communities -- are not living to celebrate their first birthdays," said Senator Menendez. "Every child - regardless of where they're born -- deserves a chance for a healthy life and we have to do all we can to increase awareness about the causes of infant mortality and expand access to the prenatal care families need." According to the National Healthy Start Association (NHSA), which supports over 100 Healthy Start projects across the United States, while infant mortality in the U.S. has been reduced recently, the disparities between whites and minorities has not lessened. NHSA reports that "Infant mortality among African American women is more than twice that of white women. Low birthweight among African American women is more than twice that of white women. For Hispanics and Native Americans, the infant mortality and low birthweight rates are significantly higher than that of the white population." They urge special attention to minority families need particularly perinatal health services. In Maryland, the infant mortality rate in 2012 was 6.3 per 1,000 live births, down six percent from 2011. The mortality rate for African American infants declined by 14 percent, to 10.3 per 1,000 live births. The infant mortality rate fell by 21 percent between 2008 and 2012, which translates to 159 fewer infant deaths in 2012 than in 2008. According to the CDC, the infant mortality rate in New Jersey in 2009 was 5.27 per 1000 live births. For Hispanics, it was 5.04 and for African Americans 12.07 per 1000 live births. The text of the resolution follows: Expressing support for the goals and ideals of the National Infant Mortality Awareness Month, 2013. Whereas the term "infant mortality" refers to the death of a baby before the first birthday of the baby; Whereas the United States ranks 50th among countries in the rate of infant mortality; Whereas high rates of infant mortality are especially prevalent in African America, Native America, Alaskan Native, Latino, Asian, and Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander communities, communities with high rates of unemployment and poverty, and communities with limited access to safe housing and medical providers; Whereas premature birth and low birth weight are leading causes of infant mortality; Whereas, according to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academics, premature birth costs the United States more than $26,000,000,000 annually; Whereas infant mortality can be substantially reduced through community-based services, such as outreach, home visitation, care coordination, health education, interconceptional care, and fatherhood involvement; Whereas support for community-based programs to reduce infant mortality services, such as outreach, home visitation, care coordination, health education, interconceptional care, and fatherhood involvement; Whereas support for community-based programs to reduce infant mortality may result in lower future spending on medical interventions, special education, and other social services that may be need for infant and children who are born with a low birth weight; Whereas the Department of Health and Human Services, acting through the Office of Minority Health, has implemented the "A Healthy Baby Begins With You' campaign; Whereas the Maternal and Child Health Bureau of the Health Resources and Services Administration has provided national leadership on the issue of infant mortality; Whereas the Advisory Committee on Infant Mortality provides advice and recommendations to the Secretary of health and Human Services with respect to developing a national strategy for reducing infant mortality; Whereas public awareness and education campaigns on infant mortality are held during the month of September each year; and Whereas September 2013 has been designated as "National Infant Mortality Awareness Month": Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate - (1) supports - (A) the goals and ideals of National Infant Mortality Awareness Month, 2013; (B) efforts to educate people in the United States about infant mortality and the factors that contribute to infant mortality; and (C) efforts to reduce infant deaths, low birth weight, pre-term births, and disparities in perinatal outcomes; (2) recognizes the critical importance of including efforts to reduce infant mortality and the factors that contribute to infant mortality as part of prevention and wellness strategies; and (3) calls on the people of the United States to observe National Infant Mortality Awareness Month with appropriate programs and activities.
09.26.2013	09.26.13 Bipartisan Group of HELP Committee Senators Introduce Legislation to Address High-Risk Drug Compounding Practices and Secure the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain A bipartisan group of Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee senators—Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA), Ranking Member Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Senator Al Franken (D-MN), Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC)—today announced that they have reached agreement with House health policy leaders on legislation to help ensure the safety of compounded drugs and to track all prescription drugs from the time they are manufactured to the moment they are picked up at the drugstore. This draft reflects a bicameral, bipartisan effort to address these drug safety and security issues. "Plain and simple, this legislation will help ensure that providers and their patients have access to high-quality compounded drugs," said Chairman Harkin. "This legislation will improve the safety of compounded drugs by clarifying the oversight responsibilities of the FDA over large-volume compounders and by holding facilities to high quality standards. This bill also calls for an unprecedented tracing system that will track prescription drugs from manufacturing to distribution. I commend the bipartisan spirit that brought this compromise proposal together." "This bill will help prevent Tennessee families from living through another nightmare like last year's tragic meningitis outbreak, which has killed 16 Tennesseans and sickened so many others," Ranking Member Alexander said. "The FDA commissioner has warned us that an outbreak like this will happen again if we don't clarify oversight, so I have worked hard with my colleagues in the House and Senate to make it clear at every compounding facility who's on the flagpole—who's in charge—of overseeing their compounding practices." "Patients in Minnesota and across the country need to be able to trust that the medications they receive will make them better and not worse," said Sen. Franken. "Unfortunately, that's not always the case. Over the past several months, I have worked hard to ensure that important and necessary oversight of entities that are essentially drug manufacturers exists so patients and their families can trust that the medicines they take are safe. I'm very pleased that we were able to come together and produce bipartisan legislation that will go a long way towards preventing another tragic outbreak." "I became involved in this issue following the unlawful acts of Kansas City pharmacist Robert Courtney over a decade ago," Sen. Roberts said. "Following the tragedy of the meningitis outbreak from a Massachusetts compounding pharmacy, the Senate has made a concerted effort to prevent tragedies like these from ever occurring again. This legislation protects traditional pharmacy while giving patients more confidence in the quality and safety of their compounded drugs. I look forward to additional feedback on this draft from stakeholders who have also been working so hard on this effort." "If fruit growers in Colorado can track a peach from the tree to the grocery store, we should be able to monitor prescription drugs in a similar way," Sen. Bennet said. "Coloradans have reasonable expectations that the medicines they receive from pharmacies and drug stores are safe and effective. Whether it is through a stronger supply chain or better oversight for compounded drugs, this commonsense bill will help restore confidence in our prescription drugs and protect our families from any potential health risks." "Securing our nation's drug supply chain is critical to the health and safety of the American people," said Sen. Burr. "The American people deserve the peace of mind to know that the medicines they take are safe and effective. This bill establishes a uniform system that improves the security and safety of drugs for consumers." Title I One year ago, the meningitis outbreak caused by contaminated compounded drugs from the New England Compounding Center alerted the nation that providers and patients need sources of safe compounded drugs. Following the outbreak, a bipartisan group of HELP Committee Senators— led by Chairman Harkin, Ranking Member Alexander, Sen. Franken, and Sen. Roberts—developed legislation to help ensure that quality compounded drugs are available to patients who need them. Among other highlights, the legislation: Distinguishes compounders engaged in traditional pharmacy practice from those making large volumes of compounded drugs without individual prescriptions. Compounders who wish to practice outside the scope of traditional pharmacy practice can register as outsourcing facilities, but those who choose to remain traditional pharmacies will continue to be primarily regulated by State Boards of Pharmacy as they are in current law. Defines the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) role in oversight of outsourcing facilities. Outsourcing facilities would be subject to FDA oversight in much the same way as traditional manufacturers. FDA will know who these outsourcers are and what they are making, receive adverse event reports about compounded drugs, and have the authority and resources to conduct risk-based inspections. The legislation will give providers and patients the option of purchasing product from outsourcing facilities that comply with FDA quality standards. Offers providers and patients better information about compounded drugs. The legislation directs FDA to make a list of FDA-regulated outsourcing facilities available on FDA's website, requires detailed labeling on compounded drugs, and prohibits false and misleading advertising. Clarifies current federal law regarding pharmacy compounding. The legislation strikes unconstitutional provisions in current law, resolving the patchwork of current federal regulation and applying a uniform standard nationwide. Title II Chairman Harkin, Ranking Member Alexander, Sen. Bennet, and Sen. Burr have developed track and trace legislation that improves patient safety by replacing today's patchwork of state product tracing laws with a strong, uniform standard that would ultimately result in electronic, interoperable unit level product tracing for the entire country. The last comprehensive effort to establish safeguards for the drug distribution supply chain was twenty-five years ago. This bipartisan, bicameral draft is the result of several years of work to address the growing problem of pharmaceutical theft, counterfeiting, and diversion. Among other highlights, the legislation: Develops a workable pathway to unit-level tracing in a decade. Over the course of seven years, the major sectors of the pharmaceutical supply chain, such as manufacturers, repackagers, wholesale distributors, and dispensers will all be passing and holding onto key information about each drug's distribution history. Within ten years, supply chain stakeholders will participate in electronic, interoperable product tracing. Strengthens licensure requirements for wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers. Wholesale distributors will have higher standards for their licenses nationwide, and third-party logistics providers will be recognized for the first time as a part of the drug supply chain. FDA will also keep a database of wholesalers that will be available to the public through the FDA's website, allowing consumers and members of the drug supply chain to identify appropriately licensed wholesalers. Establishes nationwide drug serial numbers. Four years after the date of enactment, manufacturers will serialize drugs in a consistent way across the industry. This will allow for efficient tracing to respond to recalls and notices of theft and counterfeiting.
09.18.2013	09.18.13 Burr, Mikulski, Harkin, Alexander Applaud Committee Passage of Bipartisan Reauthorization of Child Care and Development Block to Help American Families Access Safe, Affordable, Quality Child Care Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) applauded the passage of the bipartisan Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2013 by the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. This bill reauthorizes and updates the CCDBG program, which helps low income parents access and afford child care while they work or attend school. "The Child Care Development Block Grant (CCDBG) is an important federal program to ensure that low-income parents have access to child care so that they can work," said Senator Burr. "For parents to choose care effectively, they need quality information about who is providing good care and who is not. The transparency we incorporate in this law will go a long way toward making parents well-informed consumers of child care. Of particular importance to me, no longer will it be acceptable for federal dollars to go to child care providers who have been convicted of violent crimes. We have included a requirement that anyone who has unsupervised access to children while receiving federal dollars must undergo a background check. I thank the Committee leadership, Senator Mikulski and all who have participated in crafting this bill for their cooperation in advancing commonsense reforms to make our children safer." "Every working parent with children no matter their income level worries about child care. What's affordable? What's accessible? Will my child be safe? Where can I get the very best care for my kid? It is not enough to simply ensure that kids have someplace to go. We must also ensure that they go someplace that is safe, that nurtures their development, that challenges their mind and that prepares them for school," said Senator Mikulski. "The CCDBG program is supposed to give parents peace of mind. And for many families over many years, it has. But we can and should be doing more to improve child care for children, parents and providers alike. Today's action to pass this bipartisan legislation will revitalize, refresh and reform this vitally important program." "In the nearly 20 years since the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act was last reauthorized, we have learned a great deal about child development, and the factors that contribute to successful child care programs," said Chairman Harkin. "Child care is a critical support for virtually every working parent, and this bipartisan bill will enhance quality and safety, ensure that low-income and at-risk children and families have access to affordable care, promote the healthy development of children enrolled, and improve services for children with disabilities who require care. This is a bill that reflects input from members of our Committee on both sides of the aisle, and I am pleased that the HELP Committee has moved forward on this critical bill." "Access to quality child care can make all the difference in a child's early years, and this program has helped nearly 30,000 Tennessee families not only afford to enroll their children in child care, but be able to choose the type of care that's best for their family," said Senator Alexander When the CCDBG program was last reauthorized in 1996, the program rightly focused primarily on workforce aid. But in the intervening years, more has been learned about the necessity of not just providing children with a place to go, but also the importance of providing them with high-quality care. The HELP Subcommittee on Children and Families held three public hearings over the past Congress - consulting with parents, childcare providers and early learning and developmental experts and other child care advocacy organizations - to explore how best the CCDBG program could be reauthorized and improved. The CCDBG Act of 2013 incorporates feedback and suggestions provided to the Committee over the past year. The bill requires states to devote more of their funding to quality initiatives, such as: training, professional development, and professional advancement of the child care workforce. The bill ensures that CCDBG providers meet certain health and safety requirements, related to prevention and control of infectious diseases, first aid and CPR, child abuse prevention, administration of medication, prevention of and response to emergencies due to food allergies, prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and shaken baby syndrome, building and physical premises safety, and emergency response planning. The legislation gives families more stability in the CCDBG program and works to improve early childhood care by requiring states to focus on infant and toddler quality initiatives. Finally, the bill requires mandatory background checks for child care providers in the CCDBG program.
09.11.2013	09.11.13 Senator Burr Statement on Ongoing Security Situation in Syria Over the past two years, Bashar al-Assad has brutally murdered over 100,000 of his own people and has used chemical weapons 12 times, with the loss of civilian life increasing with each attack and the latest culminating in the death of over 400 children. These facts are indisputable and demonstrate the serious threat that these weapons of mass destruction pose to the security of the region and the world. It is my preference to see this situation end diplomatically. However, that requires the threat of military action moving the international community to pressure Assad to accept a certifiable and enforceable solution. Should these efforts fail, the United States must be prepared to take necessary, punitive military action against the Syrian regime to protect our long-term security and send the message to the world that the use of these weapons will not be tolerated.
08.30.2013	08.30.13 VA Accreditation Program Open to Abuse, GAO Says Leaders of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Special Committee on Aging said today that they are "deeply troubled" by the Department of Veterans Affairs' lax oversight of private advisers to veterans applying for pensions and other benefits. The senators cited a new report by the Government Accountability Office that faulted the VA for loosely enforcing its own vague rules on accrediting private financial planners, attorneys, insurance agents and others. The nonpartisan congressional agency that audits federal programs also criticized the VA for leaving itself vulnerable to abuses and for keeping veterans in the dark about their rights. The GAO report was cited in a letter to Secretary Eric Shinseki from Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Richard Burr (R-N.C.), the chairman and ranking member of the veterans' committee. Sens. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), a veterans' committee member and former chairman, and Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), the Senate Special Committee on Aging chairman, also signed the letter. "We are deeply troubled by the findings indicating weaknesses in the accreditation program, which may prevent VA from ensuring that veterans are served by knowledgeable, qualified, and trustworthy representatives," the senators wrote. The senators said the accreditation procedures should be strengthened to protect veterans from unscrupulous advisers among the 20,000 approved by the department. They also echoed a GAO recommendation and urged the department to do a better job letting veterans know how to report abuses. Problems with the accreditation program are compounded by a lack of staff and inadequate technology, the senators added. The latest GAO report builds on an investigation last year that found weak oversight and unclear rules made the VA ripe for abuse. That report found that some firms overcharge veterans for services or sell financial products that end up limiting veteran's access to the benefits that they deserve. To read the GAO report, click here. To read the senators' letter to the VA secretary, click here.
08.28.2013	08.28.13 Senator Burr Addresses Syria Civilized people should be outraged by the deaths of thousands of Syrian civilians and the many more who have been maimed in this horrible civil war. The Syrian regime's use of chemical weapons against civilians is morally repugnant and violates long held standards of conduct. Short of putting troops on the ground, it is time for the United States and our NATO allies to take necessary, punitive military action against the Syrian regime and send a clear signal to its leadership, and others in the region who may be contemplating using weapons of this nature, that there are consequences for these actions.
08.26.2013	08.26.13 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 27th U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will hold the following events on August 27, 2013. Media wishing to attend any of the following events must obtain permission from the host company or organization beforehand. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, August 27, 2013 11:00am Senator Burr to visit Biogen Idec, Inc. 5000 Davis Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 1:00pm Senator Burr to visit North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences 11 West Jones Street Raleigh, NC 3:30pm Senator Burr to attend 100th Birthday Ceremony for WWII Veteran Jerry Smith North Carolina Executive Mansion 200 North Blount Street Raleigh, NC
08.21.2013	08.21.13 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 22nd U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will hold the following events for August 22, 2013. Media wishing to attend any of the following events must obtain permission from the host company or organization beforehand. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Thursday, August 22, 2013 11:00am Senator Burr to visit CarePartners Health Services 68 Sweeten Creek Road Asheville, NC 12:00pmSenator Burr to speak to Asheville Rotary Club Renaissance Hotel 31 Woodfin Street Asheville, NC 2:00pm Senator Burr to visit Leviton Manufacturing Co, Inc. 113 Industrial Boulevard Morganton, NC 3:30pm Senator Burr to visit Manufacturing Solutions Center 301 Conover Station SE Conover, NC
08.20.2013	08.20.13 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 21st U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will hold the following public events for August 21, 2013. Media wishing to attend any of the following events must obtain permission from the host company beforehand. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Wednesday, August 21, 2013 10:30am Senator Burr to visit Magnet America 512 Newsome Road King, NC 12:30pmSenator Burr to visit Ottenweller Company, Inc. 401 Technology Lane, Suite 100 Mount Airy, NC
08.12.2013	08.12.13 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 13th – 15th U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will hold the following public events the week of August 12, 2013. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, August 13, 2013 1:30pm Senator Burr to visit Dove House Children's Advocacy Center 2407 Simonton Road Statesville, NC 3:30pm Senator Burr to visit United Technologies 4 Coliseum Center, W. Tyvola Road Charlotte, NC Wednesday, August 14, 2013 10:30amSenator Burr to visit The Babcock & Wilcox Company 13024 Ballantyne Corporate Place Charlotte, NC 12:00pmSenator Burr to attend Charlotte Chamber of Commerce Luncheon 330 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, NC Thursday, August 15, 2013 8:30am Senator Burr to co-host the 2013 North Carolina Aerospace Suppliers Conference Benton Convention Center 301 W. 5th Street Winston-Salem, NC 10:30amSenator Burr to visit Dow Corning Corporation 2914 Patterson Street Greensboro, NC 12:30pmSenator Burr to visit Graham Rotary Club Graham Civic Center 503 McGee Street Graham, NC
08.09.2013	08.09.13 POTUS Signs the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act Into Law Today, S. 1334, the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, a bill introduced by U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Angus King (I-ME), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Tom Carper (D-DE), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Dick Durbin (D-IL), was signed into law. This bill would lower interest rates for 100% of borrowers who have taken out, or will take out, a new federal student loan after July 1, 2013. "I am pleased to see this important legislation signed into law. 100% of students and borrowers are winning today," Senator Burr said. "This bill ensures that student loan interest rates never become unaffordable for students, especially the poorest, who are seeking to improve their lives through higher education." The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued student loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate (specifically, the yield on the 10-year note as determined by the last auction held before June of each year-not the changing daily rate) plus add-ons to offset costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquency. The resulting interest rates for loans taken out this year, after July 1, 2013, would be 3.86% for subsidized and unsubsidized loans for undergraduate students, 5.41% on unsubsidized loans for graduate students, and 6.41% on PLUS loans for parents and graduate students. These rates would apply retroactively to newly issued loans taken out after July 1, 2013. The interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan to provide borrowers with certainty to plan for the future. Additionally, this bill protects against the threat of unforeseen circumstances by imposing a cap to ensure interest rates never exceed 8.25% for undergraduate students, 9.5% for graduate students, 10.5% for PLUS borrowers. The Congressional Budget Office has determined this legislation would save taxpayers $715 million over ten years. To learn more about the bill, click here.
08.02.2013	08.02.13 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 5th – 6th U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will hold the following public events the week of August 5, 2013. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Monday, August 5, 2013 10:30am Senator Burr to visit EMC Center of Excellence and Cloud Data Center 4121 Surles Court Durham, NC 1:30pm Senator Burr to visit Fidelity Investments 4008 NC Highway 54 Durham, NC 3:00pm Senator Burr to visit First Flight Venture Center 2 Davis Drive Research Triangle Park, NC Tuesday, August 6, 2013 10:00amSenator Burr hosts the 12th Annual North Carolina Defense and Economic Development Trade Show Horace Sisk Building 2201 Hull Road Fayetteville, NC 1:00pm Senator Burr visits LORD Corporation 111 Lord Drive Cary, NC
08.02.2013	08.02.13 Provisions from S. 423 (112th Congress) Take Effect on August 6th The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) claims process has long been plagued by large backlogs and lengthy delays. Veterans in North Carolina regularly tell me how frustrated they are with this confusing process, some waiting years for progress to be made on their cases. While there are still many problems with the VA backlog that must be addressed, I want to mention a step that individuals filing claims for VA benefits can take on their own to try to avoid some of the delays and hassles of the VA claims process. Experience has shown that, if claimants gather up the evidence VA will need and send it in with their claims, VA is able to decide those fully-developed claims with fewer delays. Last year, in the 112th Congress, we passed legislation that included a provision from a bill I authored, S. 423, which will allow up to one year of retroactive benefits if an original fully-developed claim is granted. That provision takes effect on Tuesday, August 6, 2013, and I hope it will encourage more veterans to file fully-developed claims and, in return, receive faster decisions from VA. When veterans file a fully-developed claim VA is able to move past a number of time-consuming steps in the claims process and directly begin ordering any necessary medical examinations and federal records. According to the VA this allows them to issue a decision in half the time of a traditional claim, without sacrificing quality. To read more about this provision and the requirements for a fully-developed claim, click here and here. While this provision offers some expediency to new cases, I am still dedicated to making sure VA realizes the damage done to our nation's veterans when the process is broken. If you have any questions about filing a claim, please contact any of my offices and my staff will be happy to help you.
07.26.2013	07.26.13 Defunding and Repealing Obamacare Defunding and repealing Obamacare is smart, and is a worthy objective. Unfortunately, the "strategy" of shutting down the government to achieve that goal is not smart, nor will it help us achieve our shared objective. To be clear, I believe the law is a disaster for the American people. It is putting a wet blanket on job creation, squeezing more of Americans' hard-earned take-home pay, increasing health care costs, and decreasing access to quality healthcare. That is exactly why I fought against passage of the bill and have repeatedly supported efforts and legislation todefundandrepealObamacare in its entirety. The reality is that the Senate is controlled by Democrats who voted Obamacare into law, and Barack Obama is still President of the United States. President Obama will never sign a continuing resolution that defunds his signature legislative achievement. Therefore, as spelled out in Article I Section 7 of the United States Constitution, where it discusses procedures for overriding a presidential veto, we would need two-thirds majority votes in both the Senate and the House of Representatives to actually defund Obamacare by this strategy. The only way the tactics laid out in this letter actually achieve our shared goal is if the federal government remains shut-down until the next elections in November 2014 and 2016. I do not believe the American people, as opposed as they are to Obamacare, will view that as responsible governing. We should continue to govern in the way our Founders intended-as a loyal and principled opposition that looks out for well-being of all the American people. That is exactly what I will continue to do-work with my colleagues to pursue serious legislative proposals to get rid of Obamacare, and make the case to the American people of the dangers of this disastrous law.
07.26.2013	07.26.13 Senator Burr Commends the Passage of Key Pieces of Legislation through the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, commended the passage of key pieces of legislation through the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. "Our nation's veterans selflessly give themselves to defend our freedoms, and it is our responsibility to ensure that we provide them with the benefits and services they need and deserve," said Senator Burr. "I commend Chairman Sanders and the members of the committee for giving several important pieces of legislation their due consideration." Details on the legislation sponsored by Senator Burr that were among the items considered as stand-alone bills by the committee are outlined below: o S. 572 - The Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act The Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act would end the arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans and other Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) beneficiaries of their Second Amendment rights if they are appointed a VA fiduciary to help them with their benefits. Read more here. o S. 893 - Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2013 S. 893 would allow veterans benefits to rise to keep pace with inflation. The cost-of-living adjustment would boost benefits for veterans with service-connected disabilities and for their survivors by the same percent as any increase in Social Security benefits. Read more here. The following pieces of legislation sponsored by Senator Burr were included in an omnibus bill and a bill addressing veterans' homelessness that were voted on during committee yesterday: o S. 944 (as introduced) - Veterans' Educational Transition Act of 2013 S. 944 would require public institutions of higher education that are approved for purposes of the All-Volunteer Force Educational Assistance Program and Post-9/11 Educational Assistance to charge certain veterans tuition and fees at no more than the in-state tuition rate. o S. 529 S. 529 modifies the commencement date of the period of service at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune to be eligible for hospital care and medical services provided in the Janey Ensminger Act of 2012. Read more here. o S. 495 - Careers for Veterans Act of 2013 The Careers for Veterans Act would help create long-term, sustainable jobs for America's veterans by requiring the federal government to hire 15,000 veterans to fill existing vacancies over the next five years, and transitioning the skills veterans gained through their service into jobs in the civilian workforce. By making licenses and credentials in their chosen fields more accessible, this bill will help our nation's veterans and their families by opening up career opportunities for them without adding to the national deficit. Read more here. o S. 543 - VISN Reorganization Act of 2013 The Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) Reorganization Act of 2013 is designed to reduce the number of VISNs and streamline the regional administrative offices of the Veterans Health Administration so that the focus returns to getting care to our veterans. Read more here. o S. 825 - Homeless Veterans Prevention Act of 2013 This legislation would help VA improve its current prevention programs and VA's transitional housing programs. Read more here. o S. 748 - Veterans Pension Protection Act TheVeterans Pension Protection Act would create a "look-back" period, so VA could consider if someone applying for need-based pension recently transferred away assets. There is an entire industry aimed at convincing veterans to move assets in order to artificially qualify for pension benefits. That practice undermines the integrity of a need-based program and can leave elderly veterans without adequate resources in their greatest time of need. Read more here.
07.24.2013	07.24.13 Senator Burr Applauds Senate Passage of the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded the passage of the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act. Introduced last week by Senators Burr, Joe Manchin (D-WV), Angus King (I-ME), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Tom Carper (D-DE), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Dick Durbin (D-IL), this bill would lower interest rates for 100% of borrowers who have taken out, or will take out, a new federal student loan after July 1, 2013. "Today is a good day for students and borrowers, for the Congress, and for the American taxpayers," said Senator Burr. "This bipartisan solution helps ensure access and affordability for all students seeking to improve their lives through higher education. I am very pleased that we were able to work together to come to an agreement that is fair, sustainable, and effective." The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued student loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate (specifically, the yield on the 10-year note as determined by the last auction held before June of each year-not the changing daily rate) plus add-ons to offset costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquency. The resulting interest rates for loans taken out this year, after July 1, 2013, would be 3.86% for subsidized and unsubsidized loans for undergraduate students, 5.41% on unsubsidized loans for graduate students, and 6.41% on PLUS loans for parents and graduate students. These rates would apply retroactively to newly issued loans taken out after July 1, 2013. The interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan to provide borrowers with certainty to plan for the future. Additionally, this bill protects against the threat of unforeseen circumstances by imposing a cap to ensure interest rates never exceed 8.25% for undergraduate students, 9.5% for graduate students, 10.5% for PLUS borrowers. The Congressional Budget Office has determined this legislation would save taxpayers $715 million over ten years. To learn more about the bill,click here.
07.22.2013	07.22.13 Senators, House Republican Committee Leaders Press Administration to Release All Health Insurance Premiums Data Send letter requesting administration’s data collected on 34 states, after administration releases report on 11 states The senior Republicans on the U.S. Senate and House health policy committees and subcommittees today pressed the White House to release data it has collected on health insurance premiums in 34 states, after the administration released a report last week highlighting premium information in just 11 states. Senator Lamar Alexander (R. Tenn.) of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and Representative Fred Upton (R-Mich.), chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, with Senators Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Representatives Tim Murphy (R-Pa.) and Joe Pitts (R-Pa.)sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebeliusasking the agency to make public the remaining information about insurance premiums, so consumers can plan ahead for their health care costs next year, when the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) is implemented. The members write in the letter: "We believe it is essential that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) provide transparent pricing as soon as possible for the millions of Americans who will be impacted by this law. "The Wall Street Journal recently reported that HHS has collected insurance premium filings for 34 federal and federal-state partnership exchanges but does not intend to release this information to the public until September. Rather than release this premium information to the public, you stated in a press briefing that 'negotiations are underway and we will be negotiating rates across the country.' According to an administration source, insurers are being informed whether their rates are similar to other insurers. These negotiations have been conducted behind closed doors, without assurances that a fair process has been observed or that the negotiations will result in better insurance products for consumers. The Wall Street Journal described this process as 'running ObamaCare as a black-ops mission.' "Open enrollment on the exchanges will begin October 1, 2013. Delaying the release of premium information until September will only serve to limit the amount of time individuals and families have to budget for the substantially higher insurance costs many will face. As previously noted in a congressional report, rates in the individual market are expected to increase as much as 30 to 40 percent on average in 2014 A separate congressional report on the internal analyses of America's largest insurance companies showed that insurers were planning for average premium increases for new customers in the individual market of 96 percent, with spikes as high as 400 percent. "We are equally concerned about the potential impact of premium increases on small businesses. A recent poll of small businesses found that 41 percent have frozen hiring because of the health care law while 19 percent said they had reduced their number of employees because of the law. Another 38 percent of businesses said they have pulled back from plans to expand. For small businesses trying to offer insurance to employees, premium increases could mean further job cuts and lost growth. Publicizing insurance rates as soon as possible will give America's job creators time to plan." The members ask Secretary Sebelius to provide all filings, including rate information, received by HHS from insurers applying for qualified health plan status on the federal and partnership exchanges. They also ask for the methodology that HHS uses to determine when to negotiate with insurers regarding their exchange proposal and how HHS determines whether an insurer's rate conforms with another insurer's rate. They request to know what information HHS shares with insurers including information that may be offered to one insurer but not another (and the reason why) and what, if any, incentives of any kind HHS uses to motivate insurers to change their rates.
07.19.2013	07.19.13 Senator Burr Announces Event for July 21, 2013 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be Hickory on Sunday, July 21, 2013. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Sunday, July 21, 2013 2:00pm Senator Burr to give remarks at the dedication ceremony for Trinity Ridge Skilled Nursing Facility 2140 Medial Park Drive Hickory, NC
07.19.2013	07.19.13 Senators Introduce Bill to Limit Use of “Official Time” in Federal Workforce Today, U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Barrasso (R-WY), Richard Burr (R-NC), John Cornyn (R-TX), Mike Enzi (R-WY), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mike Lee (R-UT), Rob Portman (R-OH), Jim Risch (R-ID), Marco Rubio (R-FL), John Thune (R-SD) and David Vitter (R-LA) introduced the Federal Employee Accountability Act, a bill that would reduce "official time" for government employees. Under the practice of "official time", as authorized under 1978 Civil Service Reform Act, federal employees can be paid by taxpayers to complete duties that are not related to the mission of their agency, allowing in some cases for employees to perform union-related activities - some even full time - while on federal payroll. According to the Office of Personnel Management, in 2011, the government spent $155 million on 3.4 million hours used for "official time." "Using taxpayer dollars to finance what is often highly partisan and political full-time union work is a grievous violation of the public's trust," said Dr. Coburn. "Sadly, this is a widespread problem. Agencies like the IRS and VA have hundreds of employees on their payrolls that do nothing but full-time union work paid for by taxpayer dollars. This bill will restore the public's trust by ensuring federal employees - and the taxpayer funds that support them - are instead used to appropriately execute the mission of every federal agency." "Hard-working taxpayers are paying federal workers to do their official jobs - period," said Senator Barrasso. "This bill makes it clear that union-related activities should not be funded by the American people." "The abuse of official time by federal employees to perform union-related activities on the taxpayer dime is costly, inefficient, and unfair to the American people," said Senator Burr. "Recent information shows that an alarming number of federal employees, including those responsible for providing vital services to our nation's veterans, spend 100% of their time not serving the mission of the agency they work for. This is unacceptable and a slap in the face to those veterans who sacrificed so much for the rest of us and to the American people who deserve to know their hard-earned tax dollars are put to proper use. With our country buried in debt, this bill is a very common-sense measure to ensure that these types of wasteful practices no longer occur." "We have an obligation to ensure that the money we receive from taxpayers is used only for the legitimate duties of government, not political activity cloaked under the guise of official business," said Senator Cornyn. "I'm proud to support this measure to end an abuse of taxpayer funds and improve government transparency." "Federal workers should be paid for the work they do and not the political activity they want to do," said Senator Enzi. "Federal agencies have a mission, and that should be the priority of their workers. The American taxpayers shouldn't have to subsidize union activity during government work hours." "At a time when our nation faces serious fiscal challenges, it is imperative that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and efficiently," said Senator Isakson. I am proud to co-sponsor the Federal Employee Accountability Act because it will go a long way in ensuring that tax dollars are used to further the mission of each respective agency and not used for causes such as union activity." "Federal Agencies like the VA need to make sure that they have all hands on deck to fulfill their missions," said Senator Portman. "Unfortunately, however, many agencies allow their taxpayer-funded employees to focus their time and energy on full-time political, union activities that don't have anything to do with the official task at hand. At a place like the VA, taxpayer dollars should be funding employees to tackle the challenges of the claims backlog and providing necessary medical care to our veterans. Our veterans deserve nothing less than that, and this legislation will ensure that happens." "It is an embarrassment that millions of federal dollars have been wasted on federal employees spending their time on union-related work," said Senator Risch. "This legislation puts an end to these abusive practices and will put taxpayer-paid employees back to work for the America people." "Hard-working taxpayers should not be footing the bill for federal employees to participate in union activities on official time," said Senator Rubio. "It's an abuse of government power and a waste of already scarce government resources. This bill will hold federal employees accountable and ensure that they are fulfilling their official duties instead of engaging in often partisan and political union activities on the American taxpayer's dime." "The public deserves assurances that federal employees are spending their official time working on behalf of the American people and not on partisan union activities," said Senator Thune. "The federal government must demand better oversight of our taxpayer dollars, and ensure that civil servants are performing the responsibilities for which they were hired." The Federal Employee Accountability Act would repeal the provisions that entitle federal employees to official time while providing an exception for circumstances where both unions and agencies agree the use of official time is "reasonable, necessary, and in the public interest." The bill would not affect federal employees' ability to organize or have union representation in hearings. The bill is a companion bill to H.R. 107 sponsored by Representative Phil Gingrey, M.D., (R-GA).
07.18.2013	07.18.13 Bipartisan Group of Senators Reach Deal to Lower Rates for All Students Today, U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV), Richard Burr (R-NC), Angus King (I-ME), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Tom Carper (D-DE), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced a bipartisan compromise, the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, to lower interest rates for 100% of borrowers who have taken out, or will take out, a new federal student loan after July 1, 2013. "When Democrats and Republicans work together and have a real debate on a real problem, we can come up with commonsense solutions that benefit all Americans," said Senator Manchin. "It is refreshing that on such an important issue we stopped playing politics with our students' future to come up with a bipartisan, permanent fix that lowers interest rates for all students, especially the poorest, while also putting in place strong protections to ensure that student loan interest rates never become unaffordable. I look forward to working on more bipartisan efforts in the future. When we put our country first, we can do the right thing." "I am very pleased that we were able to come together to score a big victory for 100% of students and borrowers," said Senator Burr. "This bipartisan compromise puts in place a sustainable, market-based solution that ensures access and affordability for students seeking to improve their lives through higher education. I applaud my colleagues for their hard-work and commitment to put the well-being of the American people ahead of political interests." "As elected officials we have a responsibility to work with one another to move the country forward, and today I am proud to say to the American people that we have done just that by bridging the partisan divide to act in the best interests of our nation's students," said Senator King. "I applaud my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to forge a long-term, market-based solution that will lower and cap interest rates for every student taking out a loan and finally get Congress out of the business of setting rates. This type of good faith, give-and-take compromise is exactly how Congress should work for the country." "This compromise is a win-win for both students and taxpayers," said Dr. Coburn. "Tying interest rates to the market allows students to take advantage of historically low rates while ensuring taxpayers will not have to foot the bill for arbitrary rates set by Congress. I am pleased senators agreed on a permanent, principled solution instead of a short-term political fix." "This bipartisan - or really tri-partisan - compromise represents the best of the Senate and should be a roadmap for how we do business around here. Republicans, Democrats and an Independent worked together, with input from the President and his team, to solve a problem facing millions of American students and their families," said Senator Carper. "The product is a common sense bill that lowers student loan interest rates immediately for all students and ends the annual uncertainty that families have faced recently when borrowing for college. Simply put, it's a good approach that will help low- and moderate-income students better afford college. It also wouldn't have happened without the work of some of my fellow 'recovering governors' - Senators Manchin, Alexander and King - who consistently seek solutions over partisanship." "I am pleased that this student loan compromise includes hard, front-end caps on interest rates-a feature that has historically been a part of the student loan program-to protect students and their families when interest rates rise," said Senator Harkin, who is the Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "Further, this proposal will direct the Government Accounting Office to conduct a study on the true cost of the federal student loan program, to better inform our efforts as the HELP Committee moves towards the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. Indeed, the upcoming reauthorization of the HEA will be a historic opportunity to get a handle on runaway costs and stop the shifting of costs to students, and the HELP Committee will continue to hold hearings on these critical issues as we work to reauthorize HEA next year." "This long-term, market-based solution means that interest rates on all undergraduate loans-which are two-thirds of all student loans-will be 3.86 percent this year," said Senator Alexander. "Rates on all other student loans will also be reduced. This saves billions of dollars for the 11 million students who will borrow money to go to college this year." "This agreement will ensure students loan rates will fall below the 6.8 percent rate that kicked in on July 1," said Senator Durbin. "Once again we've shown that when both sides work together, we can reach fair and bipartisan solutions to some of the nation's biggest issues. Now that we've found a way to keep student loan rates low, I hope we can return to a more basic conversation about the underlying and unsustainable cost of education in America." The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued student loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate (specifically, the yield on the 10-year note as determined by the last auction held before June of each year-not the changing daily rate) plus add-ons to offset costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquency. The resulting interest rates for loans taken out this year, after July 1, 2013, would be 3.86% for subsidized and unsubsidized loans for undergraduate students, 5.41% on unsubsidized loans for graduate students, and 6.41% on PLUS loans for parents and graduate students. These rates would apply retroactively to newly issued loans taken out after July 1, 2013. The interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan to provide borrowers with certainty to plan for the future. Additionally, this bill protects against the threat of unforeseen circumstances by imposing a cap to ensure interest rates never exceed 8.25% for undergraduate students, 9.5% for graduate students, 10.5% for PLUS borrowers. The Congressional Budget Office has determined this legislation would save taxpayers $715 million over ten years. To learn more about the bill,click here.
06.27.2013	06.27.13 Bipartisan Group of Senators Forge Student Loan Compromise U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV), Richard Burr (R-NC), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Angus King (I-ME), and Tom Carper (D-DE) officially introduced today the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, a compromise bipartisan solution that would avert student loan interest rates from doubling on July 1st and provide a permanent solution that would lower and fix interest rates for 100 percent of newly issued student loans. The Student Loan Certainty Act requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued student loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate plus 1.85% for subsidized and unsubsidized undergraduate Stafford loans; plus 3.4% for graduate Stafford loans; and plus 4.4% for PLUS loans.The interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan and the cap on interest rates for consolidated loans would remain at 8.25%.The Congressional Budget Office has determined this legislation would reduce the deficit by $1 billion over ten years. Manchin said: "Our bill is the only bipartisan, permanent fix that lowers interest rates for all students, especially the poorest, while also putting in place a consolidation cap that ensures student loan interest rates never become unaffordable. We've had a year to fix this problem and I refuse to kick the can down the road again. It's time Congress stops playing politics with our students' future and passes a commonsense long-term fix." Burr said: "Neither party wants to see rates rise next week. That's why my colleagues and I came to the table to negotiate a bipartisan, permanent market-based solution that ensures access and affordability for students seeking higher education.Last year we kicked the can down the road and passed a one-year extension for only a small group of students. We can look back and know that if the bipartisan bill we're introducing today had been passed last year, students and their parents would have saved billions of dollars in interest payments. Why would we make the same mistake again and just kick the can down the road another year? Let's stop playing politics and give all our students—not just a few—the certainty they deserve once and for all." Coburn said: "It is time Senate leadership stop playing short-term politics with student loans and put in place a permanent, market-based solution that provides stability for students and their families. Our bill represents a compromise between Republicans, Democrats, and an Independent that closely resembles similar plans from both the President and the House of Representatives. I am hopeful commonsense will prevail and Senate leadership will put our tri-partisan proposal up for a vote." Alexander said: "This agreement is very much like the proposal in the President's budget, it is very much like the proposal passed by the Republican House of Representatives, and it will save billions of dollars in interest for all 11 million students taking out loans this year by dropping rates on all student loans. Some senators this afternoon are going to call for a short-term, political fix for just 40 percent of loans, but that's no fix at all when we have a plan to help all students that we can pass quickly." King said: "Congress will be doing America's students a serious disservice if we allow interest rates to double at the end of this month, and while both sides of the aisle are committed to resolving the issue, continuing to delay a desperately-needed long-term fix is simply unacceptable. Our constituents elected us to get things done, and that's why I sat down with Republicans and Democrats to forge a market-based, long-term deal that would lower interest rates for all students and maintain important protections. We have an opportunity to end the unfortunate pattern of legislating by temporary-extension and partisan brinkmanship and provide America's students with the resources they need to obtain an affordable college education." Carper said: "In a few days, interest on student loans will double unless Congress acts. This proposal won't please everyone, but it's a good approach that will help low- and moderate-income students afford college. It also finds a long-term solution to a problem we've only been able to solve incrementally. The cost of higher education continues to go up.We need to do our part to help students afford college, while also giving them the certainty they need to plan ahead.I'm also supporting this bill because it represents the best of the Senate - Republicans, Democrats and Independents working together to find common ground, which is what the American people sent us here to do." The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act provides a long-term fix for all student loans while preventing rates from doubling on subsidized loans on July 1st. This bill saves students $8.8 billion in 2013 and over $36 billion in the next four years by giving students access to the lowest rates possible, allowing them to take advantage of low borrowing costs when everyone else in the economy can borrow cheaply. Most importantly, this bill strengthens borrower protections by reinforcing the 8.25% interest rate cap on consolidation. Four out of every five students with subsidized Stafford loans take out other federal loans with rates at 6.8% or 7.9%—a one-year extension of the subsidized rate leaves these other rates at unacceptably high levels. We must put aside politics and act now to find a real, long-term solution that ensures access and affordability for all students seeking higher education. The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act Summary Strong Borrower Protections Strengthens the 8.25% Consolidation Cap: Borrowers can consolidate all of their federal loans with a rate that is either a) the weighted average of the loans or b) a maximum of 8.25%. This bill requires the Department of Education to remind students in a clear and easy-to-understand way of their consolidation options. Repayment Caps: Income-based repayment allows students to reduce their monthly payment based on their ability to repay and after 20-25 years, any remaining debt is forgiven. Undergraduate Subsidized and Unsubsidized Stafford Loans: Sets the interest rates on new loansto the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rates, plus 1.85% to offset the costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquencies. If a new loan was issued today, the interest rate would be 3.66%. Graduate Unsubsidized Stafford Loans: Sets the interest rates on new loans to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rates, plus 3.4% to offset the costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquencies. If a new loan was issued today, the interest rate would be 5.21%. PLUS Loans: Sets the interest rates on all new loans to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rates, plus 4.4% to offset the costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquencies. If a new loan was issued today, the interest rate would be 6.21%. Student Loan Interest Rate History In 2007, Congress temporarily lowered interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans over 4 years from 6.8 to 3.4%. In 2012, Congress extended these low rates for 1-year at a cost of nearly $6 billion with the expectation that we would find a long-term fix during that year. On July 1, 2013, the one year extension expires. It is time for Congress to do its job and pass a long-term solution.
06.27.2013	06.27.13 Bipartisan Group of Senators Forge Student Loan Compromise U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV), Richard Burr (R-NC), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Angus King (I-ME), and Tom Carper (D-DE) officially introduced today the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, a compromise bipartisan solution that would avert student loan interest rates from doubling on July 1st and provide a permanent solution that would lower and fix interest rates for 100 percent of newly issued student loans. The Student Loan Certainty Act requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued student loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate plus 1.85% for subsidized and unsubsidized undergraduate Stafford loans; plus 3.4% for graduate Stafford loans; and plus 4.4% for PLUS loans.The interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan and the cap on interest rates for consolidated loans would remain at 8.25%.The Congressional Budget Office has determined this legislation would reduce the deficit by $1 billion over ten years. Manchin said: "Our bill is the only bipartisan, permanent fix that lowers interest rates for all students, especially the poorest, while also putting in place a consolidation cap that ensures student loan interest rates never become unaffordable. We've had a year to fix this problem and I refuse to kick the can down the road again. It's time Congress stops playing politics with our students' future and passes a commonsense long-term fix." Burr said: "Neither party wants to see rates rise next week. That's why my colleagues and I came to the table to negotiate a bipartisan, permanent market-based solution that ensures access and affordability for students seeking higher education.Last year we kicked the can down the road and passed a one-year extension for only a small group of students. We can look back and know that if the bipartisan bill we're introducing today had been passed last year, students and their parents would have saved billions of dollars in interest payments. Why would we make the same mistake again and just kick the can down the road another year? Let's stop playing politics and give all our students—not just a few—the certainty they deserve once and for all." Coburn said: "It is time Senate leadership stop playing short-term politics with student loans and put in place a permanent, market-based solution that provides stability for students and their families. Our bill represents a compromise between Republicans, Democrats, and an Independent that closely resembles similar plans from both the President and the House of Representatives. I am hopeful commonsense will prevail and Senate leadership will put our tri-partisan proposal up for a vote." Alexander said: "This agreement is very much like the proposal in the President's budget, it is very much like the proposal passed by the Republican House of Representatives, and it will save billions of dollars in interest for all 11 million students taking out loans this year by dropping rates on all student loans. Some senators this afternoon are going to call for a short-term, political fix for just 40 percent of loans, but that's no fix at all when we have a plan to help all students that we can pass quickly." King said: "Congress will be doing America's students a serious disservice if we allow interest rates to double at the end of this month, and while both sides of the aisle are committed to resolving the issue, continuing to delay a desperately-needed long-term fix is simply unacceptable. Our constituents elected us to get things done, and that's why I sat down with Republicans and Democrats to forge a market-based, long-term deal that would lower interest rates for all students and maintain important protections. We have an opportunity to end the unfortunate pattern of legislating by temporary-extension and partisan brinkmanship and provide America's students with the resources they need to obtain an affordable college education." Carper said: "In a few days, interest on student loans will double unless Congress acts. This proposal won't please everyone, but it's a good approach that will help low- and moderate-income students afford college. It also finds a long-term solution to a problem we've only been able to solve incrementally. The cost of higher education continues to go up.We need to do our part to help students afford college, while also giving them the certainty they need to plan ahead.I'm also supporting this bill because it represents the best of the Senate - Republicans, Democrats and Independents working together to find common ground, which is what the American people sent us here to do." The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act provides a long-term fix for all student loans while preventing rates from doubling on subsidized loans on July 1st. This bill saves students $8.8 billion in 2013 and over $36 billion in the next four years by giving students access to the lowest rates possible, allowing them to take advantage of low borrowing costs when everyone else in the economy can borrow cheaply. Most importantly, this bill strengthens borrower protections by reinforcing the 8.25% interest rate cap on consolidation. Four out of every five students with subsidized Stafford loans take out other federal loans with rates at 6.8% or 7.9%—a one-year extension of the subsidized rate leaves these other rates at unacceptably high levels. We must put aside politics and act now to find a real, long-term solution that ensures access and affordability for all students seeking higher education. The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act Summary Strong Borrower Protections Strengthens the 8.25% Consolidation Cap: Borrowers can consolidate all of their federal loans with a rate that is either a) the weighted average of the loans or b) a maximum of 8.25%. This bill requires the Department of Education to remind students in a clear and easy-to-understand way of their consolidation options. Repayment Caps: Income-based repayment allows students to reduce their monthly payment based on their ability to repay and after 20-25 years, any remaining debt is forgiven. Undergraduate Subsidized and Unsubsidized Stafford Loans: Sets the interest rates on new loansto the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rates, plus 1.85% to offset the costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquencies. If a new loan was issued today, the interest rate would be 3.66%. Graduate Unsubsidized Stafford Loans: Sets the interest rates on new loans to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rates, plus 3.4% to offset the costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquencies. If a new loan was issued today, the interest rate would be 5.21%. PLUS Loans: Sets the interest rates on all new loans to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rates, plus 4.4% to offset the costs associated with defaults, collections, deferments, forgiveness, and delinquencies. If a new loan was issued today, the interest rate would be 6.21%. Student Loan Interest Rate History In 2007, Congress temporarily lowered interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans over 4 years from 6.8 to 3.4%. In 2012, Congress extended these low rates for 1-year at a cost of nearly $6 billion with the expectation that we would find a long-term fix during that year. On July 1, 2013, the one year extension expires. It is time for Congress to do its job and pass a long-term solution.
06.26.2013	06.26.13 Senators Manchin, Burr, Coburn, Alexander, King Introduce Bipartisan Permanent Student Loan Solution U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV), Richard Burr (R-NC), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Angus King (I-ME) plan to introduce tomorrow a bipartisan compromise, the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, to avert student loan rates from doubling on July 1st and provide a permanent solution that would lower and fix interest rates for 100 percent of newly issued student-loans. Manchin said: "This bipartisan agreement not only makes sure student rates will not double on July 1, but this is a long-term fix that will lower rates for all students and will save students $30 billion over the next three years, making sure anyone who wants an education, can afford one. This deal shows the American people that bipartisanship and common sense are alive in Washington. We can find common ground to help our students and ensure the next generations of Americans have the same wonderful educational opportunities that we have always had." Burr said: "I am pleased we were able to find a permanent, market-based solution to addressing our nation's student loan problem. This agreement lowers rates for 100 percent of America's students and families and gives them the certainty they need to plan for college and beyond — all while reducing the deficit.Our compromise satisfies the framework requested by President Obama and Secretary Duncan, has the support of members of both parties in the United States Senate, and is a no-brainer for the American people. Let's do the work our constituents sent us here to do; put the politics aside and pass this bill." Coburn said: "This compromise will allow market forces to help students pay for college. Students and families should not have to be held in limbo while waiting for Congress to set yet another arbitrary rate.This compromise is a permanent solution that will benefit virtually all borrowers and taxpayers. This bill allows borrowers to take advantage of today's low rates while protecting taxpayers from subsidizing higher, artificial rates. I call on Senate leadership to bring this bill to the floor immediately for a vote." Alexander said: "We have coalesced around a common idea that will cut interest rates nearly in half for 11 million undergraduates who will be taking out loans this summer to go to college. It will lower interest rates immediately on 100 percent of new student loans after July 1. For undergraduates, the rates for new loans will be less than 4 percent. The proposal would continue the option students now have to cap interest rates at 8.25 percent when consolidating their loans. It also continues the cap on a student's annual loan repayment at no more than 10-15 percent of a student's income. This proposal is fair to students and fair to taxpayers, and combines the best ideas from the president's budget, the House-passed bill, and the work of this bipartisan coalition of senators. There's no reason Congress shouldn't pass it and the president shouldn't sign it before July 1." King said: "I am pleased to join this bipartisan group of Senators in putting forward a sensible, compromise proposal that will not only lower student loan interest rates for millions of students, but will also maintain important protections and adopt a market-based approach to get Congress out of the business of setting arbitrary rates with no connection to the actual cost of borrowing. Our solution successfully builds on the many credible proposals put forward by members on both sides of the aisle, as well as the President, to help make college an affordable reality. This bipartisan bill demonstrates that we can bridge the partisan divide and work together in the best interest of the American people." The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued student loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate plus 1.85% for subsidized and unsubsidized undergraduate Stafford loans; plus 3.4% for graduate Stafford loans; and plus 4.4% for PLUS loans.The interest rate would be fixed over the life of the loan and the cap on interest rates for consolidated loans would remain at 8.25%.The Congressional Budget Office has determined this legislation would reduce the deficit by $1 billion over ten years.
06.18.2013	06.18.13 Senators Burr, Hagan Applaud Committee Passage of Cape Hatteras Off-Road Vehicle Bill Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Kay Hagan (D-N.C.) applauded the passage of S. 486, the Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act by the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. "Today's compromise was a critical step forward in the effort to regain access to one of North Carolina's most scenic treasures," said Senator Burr. "Our work finally gives a voice to the people of North Carolina and all those who come to see its coast while still balancing the needs of the area's wildlife and addressing any potential environmental concerns. I appreciate the support of Chairman Wyden and the input from the people of Dare County in achieving this balance, and I am confident we have reached an agreement that can pass the full Senate and become law." "This compromise represents a responsible step toward restoring balance between beach access and important environmental protections,"said Senator Hagan. "Cape Hatteras National Seashore is critical to Dare County's economy, and I will continue to work with Senator Burr and members on both sides of the aisle to expedite passage of this bill into law." "This is a giant step in the right direction for a practical solution that balances reasonable recreational access with resource protection," said Warren Judge, Chairman of the Dare County Commissioners. "The residents and visitors of Dare County have worked long and hard with their elected officials to champion this cause. We are grateful for the bipartisan leadership of Senator Burr and Senator Hagan for never giving up on something they knew to be right for the people who depend upon access to the Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area." If enacted, this bill would set rules and parameters for the National Park Service to abide by when considering limiting access to beaches. These parameters direct the NPS to minimize buffers on protected areas and keep them in place for the shortest possible duration necessary, designate pedestrian and vehicle corridors around areas that are closed, coordinate with the State of North Carolina when establishing certain buffers, and allow for a public process when considering limiting access in special situations. The bill also directs the NPS to construct vehicle access points and roads as expeditiously as possible and report its progress to Congress within one year of the act becoming law.
06.17.2013	06.17.13 Senator Burr Statement on Gov. Jim Holshouser’s Passing Today, U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (North Carolina) issued the following statement in reaction to the news of Gov. Jim Holshouser's passing: "I was terribly sad to hear of Gov. Jim Holshouser's passing. Gov. Holshouser was one of the kindest and most sincere people to ever become involved in North Carolina politics. Staying true to his mountain roots, Jim would always shoot you straight and stay true to his word. His lifelong dedication to service to our state was defined by many outstanding accomplishments that made North Carolina a better place to live. To those of us who knew him personally, Jim was a trusted counselor, leader, and, most importantly, a great friend. Today, all North Carolinians have lost one of the true statesmen of our time."
06.17.2013	06.17.13 Senators Burr, Hagan Introduce Lumbee Recognition Bill On Wednesday, June 12, 2013,U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Kay Hagan (D-NC) introduced S. 1132, the Lumbee Recognition Act, a bill which would provide federal recognition to the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina. "I am proud to reintroduce this legislation, continuing my efforts to ensure that the Lumbee Tribe receives long-overdue federal recognition," Senator Burr said. "I hope that the Senate will fulfill its commitment to achieve fairness and justice for the Lumbees." "Full federal recognition is critical to the heritage and cultural identity of more than 55,000 North Carolinians and the economic vitality of the entire Lumbee community," Senator Hagan said. "I am committed to working with my colleagues to pass this legislation to give the Lumbee Tribe the full recognition they deserve." North Carolina formally recognized the Lumbee Tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe, but it included a terribly unfair caveat - the Lumbees were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. The 1956 Lumbee Act actually prohibits the tribe from going through the Bureau of Indian Affairs process for full recognition. As the law now stands, the Lumbee Tribe can only be recognized by an act of Congress. The Lumbee Recognition Act would provide the Lumbees with complete recognition and make the tribe eligible for all federal benefits and programs.
06.06.2013	06.06.13 Senators Alexander, Coburn, Burr, Isakson React to Senate Vote on Student Loan Solution Today, U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) reacted to Senate Democrats' vote to defeat their bill, S. 1003, the Comprehensive Student Loan Protection Act—a permanent solution that would lower and fix interest rates for 100 percent of newly issued student-loans. Alexander, Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, said: "Our bill takes advantage of today's low rates and lowers rates on all new student loans this year to below 5 percent—it's fair to students, it's fair to taxpayers, it's a permanent solution and it's the same idea that the House has already passed and the same idea that the president has recommended. I wish all of our serious issues opened with proposals from the president and the House of Representatives and Senate Republicans that were as close together as they are on this issue. We should sit down together and spend the next three weeks saying: 'We all have the same idea, we have a serious issue here, it affects millions of students so let's work together and show the country we can do this.' Coburn said: "Today's vote put politics ahead of principle. The Senate could have enacted a permanent solution for students and their families, but instead played short-term politics. I will continue to work towards reform that ties interest rates to market forces and takes the process out of the hands of a Congress that routinely holds these rates hostage." Burr said: "I'm left scratching my head over the Senate's votes today. Along with my colleagues, I put forward a permanent solution for 100% of student loans that lowers rates, simplifies and streamlines the process, and saves federal taxpayers billions of dollars. After today's votes and Harry Reid stating publicly this week that there was "no reason to work out a compromise," it is clear they would rather have a made-for-television political fight on this issue rather than a resolution. It raises questions about whether Reid's priorities lie with starting temporary political fires or permanently addressing this issue for American students and their families. I, on the other hand, stand willing to work with my colleagues for what should be a no-brainer for students, parents, and taxpayers." Isakson said: "I am very disappointed by the outcome of today's vote. Our proposal is fair, equitable and treats everyone alike by lowering interest rates on 100 percent of student federal loans at a fixed rate. It's the right way to address the student loan program, and it's unfortunate that Senate Democrats blocked a bill that takes an approach very similar to the president's student loan proposal. It is critically important that we reach an agreement quickly so that students will have access to affordable loans come July 1. It is irresponsible for anyone to play politics on this important issue." The "Comprehensive Student Loan Protection Act" requires that, for each academic year, all newly-issued Stafford, Graduate PLUS, and Parent PLUS loans be set to the U.S. Treasury 10-year borrowing rate plus 3 percentage points. It would lower the interest rate for this coming school year for all newly issued federal student loans to a fixed rate of 4.75 percent, based on the May 15 auction rate of 1.75 percent.
06.06.2013	06.06.13 Republican Senators: End Federal Mandates Creating “National School Board” Introduce “Every Child Ready for College or Career Act” to let states decide whether schools and teachers are succeeding or failing Republican senators today introduced a better schools plan that they said would move out of Washington and back to states decisions about whether schools and teachers are succeeding or failing. U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), and Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) introduced the "Every Child Ready for College or Career Act"to fix the law known as "No Child Left Behind." All are members of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. Alexander, Ranking Member of the committee, said: "Over the last decade, the U.S. Department of Education hasbecome so congested with federal mandates that it has become, in effect, a national school board. The best way to help 50 million children in 100,000 public schools learn what they need to know and be able to do is to fix that responsibility squarely where it belongs—on parents, teachers, communities and states. "Fortunately, over the last 30 years states have worked together to create higher standards, better tests and pioneered new systems of teacher evaluations related to student performance. Our legislation would create a national environment that would help them succeed. Unfortunately, the Democratic alternative would create more congestion by freezing into law existing federal mandates and adding 20 new programs and 80 new requirements on states and school districts. One symbol of our different approaches is that the Democratic bill is 1,150 pages; ours is 220 pages. " Burr said: "For too long, parents, teachers and students have suffered under the continuous overreach of federal bureaucrats who have wrestled education away from state and local communities in order centralize decision-making in Washington, DC. I do not believe that the best way to help our students and teachers succeed is to impose a one-size-fits-all, top-down approach. That is why I am proud to be a part of this legislation, which returns control over education to the states and local communities - the ones who are best suited to address their own needs and effect change." Isakson said: "Over the last decade, 'No Child Left Behind' has made major strides in improving students' education in the areas of math and reading, but our work is far from over. It is critically important that Congress acts quickly to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. I am proud to join my Republican colleagues in introducing this legislation because it continues to build upon past progress, implements changes based on feedback from administrators, teachers and parents and allows states and local school systems to make choices that best suit their students' needs." Enzi said: "Protecting states' rights and ensuring that they determine what is best for their children is the utmost priority to me. Our state officials, educators, faculty and parents are in the best position to determine what is best for our schools. I thank Ranking Member Alexander and the other committee members who have joined together on this bill which would remove Washington mandates designed to create a national school board. We need to start giving local communities their schools back." Roberts said: "Unfortunately, Washington continues to operate under the belief that they know best by mandating a one-size-fits-all education curriculum. Instead of creating new programs and new spending we should consolidate and streamline existing programs. Our bill makes commonsense changes to ESEA to simplify the law and make it more flexible for states and local districts, without sacrificing the accountability." Hatch said: "More mandates from Washington is not the solution to give students in Utah and throughout the country the education they deserve. This legislation makes the changes we heard need to be made from parents, teachers, and school administrators, while continuing to build upon the foundation of what's working to meet our students' needs. It's the step forward our education system needs." Kirk said: "Not only does this bill give states and local schools more control to improve teachers and classrooms, but it also includes provisions to help expand good quality education to our next generation so they can better compete on a global stage - a longtime priority of mine," Senator Kirk said. "Charter schools have some of the most successful educational programs in the nation, and this legislation will ensure we replicate and expand their proven best practices for use in other schools." Details on the "Every Child Ready for College or Career Act": More state and local control: Transfers from Washington to states decisions about measuring student achievement, fixing underperforming schools, and whether schools and teachers are succeeding or failing. No National School Board mandates: Makes clear that the U.S. Education Secretary's waiver authority is led by state requests for flexibility, and is not an excuse to impose more federal mandates. High standards and quality tests: States, not Washington, will define high standards and tests for students in reading, math and science. More school choices for low income parents: Allows states to use $14.5 billion in Title I funds for low-income children to follow those children to the public school they attend—ending a formula that diverted those funds to schools serving wealthier families. More freedom for teachers and principals: Encourages charter schools, which give teachers and school leaders morefreedom to use their own good judgment about how to teach. Encourage teacher evaluations: Ends federal definitions of "highly qualified teachers" and encourages states to use its share of $2.5billion in federal Title II funds to create teacher evaluation systems related to student performance and other factors. Flexibility in spending federal funds: Consolidates 62 programs authorized in No Child Left Behind into two block grants and gives states more flexibility in spending education dollars. Secretary's report cards: Continues state and district report cards on schools from No Child Left Behind and creates an annual Secretary's report card on the nation's schools.
06.05.2013	06.05.13 Burr, Mikulski, Harkin, Alexander Introduce Bipartisan Reauthorization of Child Care and Development Block to Help American Families Access Safe, Affordable, Quality Child Care U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC),Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Primary Health and Aging,was joined today bySenatorsBarbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee,Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Chairman of the HELP Committee,andLamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Ranking Member of the HELP Committee, to announce that they have introduced the bipartisanChild Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) Act of 2013,which reauthorizes and updates the CCDBG program. This program helps low and moderate income parents access and afford child care while they work or attend school. "When parents leave their children in the care of someone else, they want to know their children are in a safe place with qualified providers. The Child Care Development Block Grant (CCDBG) is an important federal program to ensure that low-income parents have access to child care so that they can work. Since its creation, the CCDBG program has experienced many positive developments that have boosted the quality of federally-subsidized child care," said Senator Burr. "Tragically, incidents of child abuse and endangerment have occurred in these day care facilities, and it's time Congress acts to assure parents and taxpayers that these children are in a safe place. The Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2013 is bipartisan, commonsense legislation that updates this law to reflect these realities. And most importantly, I am very pleased that this legislation includes my bill to require criminal background checks for all child care providers, an important step in protecting America's children." "Every working parent with children, no matter their income level, worries about child care," Senator Mikulskisaid. "What's affordable? What's accessible? Will my child be safe? Where can I get the very best care for my kid? The CCDBG program is supposed to give parents peace of mind. And for many families over many years, it has. But we can and should be doing more to improve child care for children, parents, and providers alike. It is long past time to revitalize, refresh and reform this vitally important program." "I am pleased to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to improve CCDBG. I am especially excited about the new focus on providing access to quality early childhood care and education," said Chairman Harkin. "This is an evidence-based approach to closing the readiness gap for low-income children, giving them a fair shot at success when they enter school. We know that these are smart investments for our children, our families, and the future of our country." "Access to quality child care can make all the difference in a child's early years, and this program has helped nearly 30,000 Tennessee families not only afford to enroll their children in child care, but be able to choose the type of care that's best for their family," Senator Alexandersaid. When the CCDBG program was last reauthorized in 1996, the program rightly focused primarily on workforce aid. But in the intervening years, more has been learned about the necessity of not just providing children with a place to go, but also the importance of providing them with high-quality care. The HELP Subcommittee on Children and Families held three public hearings over the past Congress - consulting with parents, childcare providers and early learning and developmental experts and other child care advocacy organizations - to explore how best the CCDBG program could be reauthorized and improved. The legislation introduced this week by Senators Mikulski, Burr, Harkin and Alexander incorporates feedback and suggestions provided to the Committee over the past year. The bill requires states to devote more of their funding to quality initiatives, such as: training, professional development, and professional advancement of the child care workforce. The bill ensures that CCDBG providers meet certain health and safety requirements, related to prevention and control of infectious diseases, first aid and CPR, child abuse prevention, administration of medication, prevention of and response to emergencies due to food allergies, prevention of sudden infant death syndrome and shaken baby syndrome, building and physical premises safety, and emergency response planning. The legislation gives families more stability in the CCDBG program and works to improve early childhood care by requiring states to focus on infant and toddler quality initiatives. Finally, the bill requires mandatory background checks for child care providers in the CCDBG program.
06.04.2013	06.04.13 Op-ed: Playing Politics With Student Debt By LAMAR ALEXANDER, TOM COBURN and RICHARD BURR WASHINGTON — This summer, more than nine million undergraduates will take out an average of $6,700 each in federal loans to pay for college next year. They will borrow, on average, $24,803 to earn their degrees. While this continues to be one of the smartest investments they will ever make, Congress should take one step toward making it an even smarter one. We have introduced a proposal that would get rid of the confusing and arbitrary way interest rates are determined on federal student loans, and instead allow rates to be set by the market. We commend President Obama for introducing a similar proposal in his budget, and the House of Representatives for recently passing similar legislation, on a bipartisan basis, that offers a long-term, market-based solution. But we are worried that Senate Democrats, who could vote on the issue as early as this week, will oppose a permanent solution for 100 percent of loans and instead will merely extend the existing, arbitrary rate for a minority of loans, and for just two years — a politically easy move that will only hurt students in the long run. Over the past four years, the Federal Reserve has kept interest rates at record-low levels, allowing banks to borrow money from the federal government at nearly zero percent interest and, in turn, offer low rates to individuals borrowing money for the purchase of a home or a car or to start a business. But if you’re a college student who has taken out a federal loan during that time, you’ve seen no benefit at all from the dirt-cheap borrowing costs. Instead, your interest rate was set by Congress, which temporarily set some rates at 3.4 percent for low-income students but left most rates at either 6.8 percent or 7.9 percent. In other words, you could borrow money to buy a used car to drive yourself to college and pay about 3 percent interest over five years, while at the same time you could be paying nearly 7 or 8 percent interest on the cost of your education. That is, except on your federally subsidized Stafford loans. Last year Congress extended a temporary provision, first passed in 2007, to lower the 6.8 percent interest rate on newly issued Stafford loans for low-income undergraduate borrowers to 3.4 percent, for one year. The government pays the interest for these loans while the borrower is in school. Congress extended the interest rates for a year not because it was good policy, or because 3.4 percent is some ideal rate for loans, but largely because student debt had become a political issue in the presidential campaign. In the end, the one-year extension cost taxpayers nearly $6 billion, but saved a mere $9 a month in future repayments for the 40 percent of student borrowers who receive subsidized Stafford loans. Congress is now approaching the end of that temporary “fix.” On July 1, those rates will return to 6.8 percent — which is why it is important for the Senate to make the right fix, right now. Student debt shouldn’t be grist for the political mill. Congress must provide certainty and stability to student borrowers. Our legislation would tie all federal student-loan interest rates to the 10-year Treasury rate (currently 1.75 percent), plus 3 percentage points to cover the costs of collections, defaults and other risk factors. That would benefit students and families by cutting rates on almost all federal student loans to a little under 5 percent for the coming school year. Under our proposal, interest rates will remain the same over the lifetime of a loan, but the rate on a loan taken out in 2013 might differ from one taken out in 2014, because market rates vary. One big advantage of our proposal is consistency: the confusion over differing rates on Stafford loans and unsubsidized federal PLUS loans would end, since one rate formula would be used for all federal education loans. Our plan would also protect students by using the existing income-based repayment program, which allows borrowers to reduce their monthly payments based on a capped percentage of their discretionary income and ultimately have those loans forgiven after a period of time. This is a better solution than capping future increases in interest rates, and one that the president’s own budget proposal endorses. Taxpayers would be protected, too. When the economy recovers and interest rates return to historical norms, taxpayers will no longer be subsidizing artificially low interest rates. Our proposal has some differences from the president’s plan and the House-passed bill — for example, the president proposes three different interest rates for different types of loans, while ours has just one interest rate for all direct federal student loans, and the House bill applies a variable interest rate that resets each year, while our interest rate remains the same for the life of the loan. But all of us embrace the same idea: we should stop playing politics with student loan debt and move to a simpler and fairer system, one that will immediately lower borrowing costs for all students while protecting taxpayers and providing certainty for the future. We hope Senate Democrats will agree. This op-ed was published by the New York Times.
05.16.2013	05.16.13 Senators Coburn, Burr React to GAO Report on Hospital Payment Modification Today, U.S. Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC) offered reaction to the release of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report at the Senators' request to review legislation that altered Medicare payments to hospitals over time. The GAO report concludes that the report's findings "suggest that the way Medicare currently pays hospitals may no longer ensure that the goals of the inpatient prospective payment system—cost control, efficiency, and access—are being met." "Today's GAO reports show how changes made to benefit some facilities have undermined the integrity of the payment system for all facilities," Dr. Coburn said. "Congress has a duty to responsibly reform Medicare so it can serve current and future seniors in a more financially sustainable manner. As GAO shows, carving out exemptions has unfortunately become the norm for Congress. Comprehensive reform should reject a system of parochial patchwork payments and instead adopt a hospital payment model that is more equitable, transparent, competitive, and accountable." "When the exceptions are swallowing the rule—as this GAO report clearly concludes with respect to how hospitals are paid under the Medicare program—it's another indicator of the need to strengthen and improve Medicare to better serve seniors and taxpayers ," Senator Burr said. "Decades of patchwork fixes to Medicare have failed to put the Medicare program on a sustainable course. We have a moral responsibility to take action to strengthen and improve the Medicare program so that we may keep our promise for seniors and future generations." Medicare reimburses most hospitals under the inpatient prospective payment system (IPPS), which pays hospitals a flat fee, per stay, set in advance, with different amounts for each type of condition. Congress created the IPPS in 1983, but in the last 30 years, Congress has increased Medicare payments to certain hospitals by changing the qualifying criteria for IPPS payment categories, creating and extending exceptions to IPPS rules, or by exempting certain types of hospitals from the IPPS. GAO identified numerous statutory provisions Congress has passed into law that individually increased Medicare payments to a subset of hospitals under the IPPS. GAO found that during the period from 1997 to 2012 a total of 15 changes have been made that individually increased Medicare payments to a subset of hospitals under the IPPS. While the payment modifications passed by Congress may have been intended to affect only a subset of hospitals, nine out of the 10 hospitals reviewed qualified for an adjustment or exemption from the IPPS in 2012—about 91 percent of hospitals were subject to an IPPS payment adjustment or were excluded from the IPPS entirely. GAO found that the majority of hospitals, nearly two-thirds qualified for at least one of four categories of increased payment. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) and the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) have suggested that continual and wide-ranging modifications to the payment system undermine the integrity of the IPPS. IOM found that the methods CMS uses for determining how Medicare pays hospitals for the same services in different parts of the country did not accurately reflect regional differences in expenses. MedPAC found that some special payment changes did not even adequately target isolated small rural providers, while other payments changes had overlapping purposes. Click here to learn more. You can read the full report here.
05.16.2013	05.16.13 Senator Burr Statement on Committee Action on Cape Hatteras Off-Road Vehicle Bill Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement after Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, committed to consider the Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act during the committee's June mark-up. "I am pleased that Chairman Wyden committed to giving this important bill its proper consideration before the committee," Senator Burr said. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure its passage into law. I applaud Congressman Walter Jones and the House Committee on Natural Resources for their swift passage of the House companion bill." If enacted, this bill would reinstate the Interim Management Strategy governing off-road vehicle use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore (CHNS) and set aside current mandates and requirements that prevent off-road vehicle (ORV) and citizen access to a significant portion of this National Seashore. In December 2005, the NPS began the negotiation process to create regulations that would allow CHNS to meet its compliance standards, and in June 2007, an Interim Management Strategy was implemented to provide a framework for regulating the CHNS while the NPS developed its long-term plan. This Interim Management Strategy allowed for controlled ORV access to the CHNS. However, on July 17, 2007, an injunction was filed by the Defenders of Wildlife and the National Audubon Society to prevent ORV use until a final management plan is established and approved by NPS. A settlement negotiation process ensued, and on April 30, 2008, a federal judge approved a consent decree that required all seashore ramps to be closed to ORVs from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m., created buffers that are in some cases more restrictive, and ruled that deliberate violations of the buffers would result in an expanded restricted area. In February 2012, the NPS implemented final rules, requiring that ORVs must obtain permits to access the CHNS, further limiting the accessibility of the park to vehicles.
05.16.2013	05.16.13 Senators Coburn, Burr Introduce Bill to Prevent Unrealistic Medicaid FMAP Today, U.S. Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced S. 963, the Preventing an Unrealistic Future Medicaid Augmentation Plans (FMAP) Act of 2013, a bill that will repeal the Affordable Care Act's enhanced Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP), or Medicaid FMAP, to prevent the federal government from unfairly committing taxpayer money to incentivize the expansion of state Medicaid programs. Under this bill, States would still be allowed to expand their Medicaid program, but would do so without the commitment of enhanced federal tax dollars. "Since the Supreme Court's decision last year that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's mandatory Medicaid expansion was unconstitutional, some states have been trying to figure out whether or not to optionally expand their Medicaid programs," Dr. Coburn said. "This bill sends a basic message to governors and state legislatures considering expansion: don't count on the enhanced federal funding for Medicaid expansions, because Congress has overpromised what it cannot deliver. Realistically, the funding will not be there and the check will bounce." "With federal debt soon to surpass $17 trillion, Congress should be taking steps to curb spending, not making empty promises about future Medicaid funding. Earlier this week, the Congressional Budget said Medicaid spending, if unaltered, would total more than $4.3 trillion over the coming decade, with an average cost increase each year of eight percent. In the next 10 years, our health care entitlements, along with Social Security, will total more than $3 trillion, each year." "This trajectory is mathematically unsustainable over the long run, so future Congresses will be forced to reduce Medicaid spending, one way or another. In view of the math, it is disingenuous and even deceptive for state or federal politicians to pretend that funding Medicaid on its current path is sustainable. Pledges to expand 'coverage' based on unrealistic budget estimates are empty promises. "Today, too many Medicaid patients already experience access problems in Medicaid. The best way to protect lower-income Americans who depend on Medicaid is to not overstretch the program, but to refocus its mission on those who are truly in need." "The federal government can barely honor its commitments already on the books, much less fund the expansion of an already broken program," Sen. Burr said. "States should have the flexibility to control their own Medicaid programs so they can better address their needs and the health care needs of their patients, but should not be misled by empty promises we all know cannot be met. While my colleagues and I remain committed to a full repeal of the Affordable Care Act, we should be honest with the American people about what we cannot afford. This bill takes a critical step toward being honest with the American people about the unsustainable costs of the new health care law by repealing one of the law's signature pieces—the unrealistic, and unaffordable enhanced FMAP." Medicaid spending currently consumes nearly a quarter of every state dollar, passing education as the largest state budgetary commitment. Today, only a fraction of providers accept Medicaid patients. As a result, patients have a hard time accessing care. Expanding this program in its current form will by no means fix this broken program and will only worsen our fiscal situation. This bill will protect the American taxpayer from paying more for a program that too often fails those who rely on it. Learn more here.
05.16.2013	05.16.13 Bennet, Burr, Harkin, Alexander Introduce Bill to Improve Safety of Nation’s Drug Supply Colorado U.S. Senator Michael Bennet today joined Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) as well as the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN), to introduce a bipartisan bill to strengthen and improve our nation's drug distribution supply chain. The last comprehensive effort to establish safeguards for the drug distribution supply chain was 25 years ago with the passage of The Prescription Drug Marketing Act. The bill introduced today builds on a yearlong effort to find consensus and incorporates feedback from stakeholders that the senators sought after releasing a draft of the proposal last month. If passed, it would improve patient safety by replacing today's patchwork of state product tracing laws with a strong, uniform standard that would ultimately result in electronic, interoperable unit levelproduct tracing for the entire country. "It doesn't make much sense to me or to anyone back in Colorado that right now, we know more from a barcode on a gallon of milk than from a barcode on a bottle of pills - information that could mean the difference between life and death for someone," Bennet said. "With the record number of recalls and reports of tainted or ineffective drugs reaching our hospitals and drug stores, it is clear that we must take steps to restore confidence to our nation's families that our drug supply is safe. This bill will help establish a track-and-trace system that will ensure we can get bad drugs off the shelves as soon as they are discovered." "Securing our nation's drug supply chain is critical to the health and safety of the American people," said Senator Burr. "The American people deserve the peace of mind to know that the medicines they take are safe and effective. This bill establishes a uniform system that improves the security and safety of drugs for consumers." "To ensure the safety and integrity of prescription drugs, it is critical that we know where those drugs go once they leave the manufacturer. When Americans take medicine prescribed by their doctor, they should never have to worry that it is counterfeit or has been adulterated or compromised in any way," said HELP Chairman Tom Harkin. "I am pleased that the HELP Committee has worked in a collaborative, bipartisan fashion to strengthen our ability to trace drugs through the supply chain, and I hope that we can advance this legislation so doctors, pharmacists, and consumers can know exactly where their prescription medications have been and if there is a problem with a drug, it can be quickly found and taken out of the supply chain." "This bill creates a new system for tracking drugs from the instant they leave the manufacturer to the moment you pick them up at the local drugstore. This will help protect consumers and families by improving the safety and security of our medicines in the United States," Alexander said. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act would transition the current system to a unit-level tracing system over the course of a decade. It requires the entire drug supply chain, including manufacturers, repackagers, wholesale distributors, third-party logistics providers, and dispensers to pass along transaction information, history, and statements, as applicable, when there is a change of ownership. Additionally, no one in the supply chain would be allowed to accept drugs if this information is not provided as part of the change of ownership. This bill establishes a workable pathway to unit-level tracing in a decade. Over the course of seven years, the major sectors of the pharmaceutical supply chain, such as manufacturers, repackagers, wholesale distributors, and dispensers will all be passing and holding onto transaction information and history, as applicable, for each drug product. Within that time, the Food and Drug Administration will publish guidance for the drug supply chain on uniform standards to make an interoperable, electronic drug tracing system, and conduct a small business dispenser assessment to look at the feasibility of this system. The bill also requires the FDA to conduct pilot projects on unit-level tracing as well as hold public meetings to ensure broad stakeholder input on a workable interoperable, electronic unit-level system within a decade. The proposed bill also strengthens licensure requirements for wholesale distributors and requires FDA to keep a database of wholesalers that will be available to the public through the FDA's website. This empowers both consumers and members of the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to identify appropriately licensed wholesalers. Senators Bennet and Burr have worked together for over a year to create a track-and-trace system that will help secure the nation's drug supply. The two lawmakers secured language in the Senate FDA user fee bill last year to allow for continued discussions on efforts to protect the supply chain of pharmaceutical drugs. This bill is a result of those efforts to establish a national drug traceability system. The HELP Committee is expected to consider this bill and a bill to address safety issues at compounding pharmacies at a meeting next week.
05.14.2013	05.14.13 Senate Health Committee Members Praise HHS Response to Avian Flu Threat Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Bob Casey (D-Penn.), and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today commended the administration's response to the avian flu threat in using new flexibility granted by the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization, which was signed into law on March 13. Under the new law, the Health and Human Services Secretary determined that there is significant potential for a public health emergency that has significant potential to affect national security or the health and security of United States citizens living abroad and that involves the avian influenza A (H7N9) virus, and was able to authorize the emergency use of in vitro diagnostics for detection of H7N9, or avian influenza A. Burr said: "The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act provides targeted flexibility to ensure that we are better prepared to respond to the full range of public health threats that may confront us. I applaud the Administration for using the new flexibility and critical tools provided under this law to better understand and respond to the emerging H7N9 avian influenza." Harkin, Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, said: "The HELP Committee worked on a bipartisan basis to enact legislation to better protect Americans from public health emergencies of all kinds. That effort is now paying dividends as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services uses its newly-granted authority to detect and diagnose avian flu." Enzi said: "America is better equipped to respond thanks to the coordinated efforts between federal, state and local entities. PAHPA has helped guarantee that America has the tools needed to address a biological disaster and I commend the Administration for their quick response." Casey said: "The Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act addresses the gaps in our preparedness efforts, and puts in place new critical measures to protect Pennsylvanians and all Americans. The Administration's response to the recent avian flu threat underscores the importance of these new strategies in addressing emerging threats." Alexander, Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said: "The goal of this law was to help our nation be better prepared for the threat of a bioterror attack or a flu outbreak, and the avian flu response shows that Americans are safer today because of the law." The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization strengthens our nation's preparedness for and ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies, optimizes state and local all-hazards preparedness and response efforts and collaboration, enhances medical countermeasure activities, and reauthorizes key medical and public health programs, including the BioShield Special Reserve Fund. Additional information regarding the legislation can be found here. Senators Mikulski (D-MD), Isakson (R-GA), Roberts (R-KS), and Chambliss (R-GA) are original cosponsors of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013.
05.13.2013	05.13.13 Senator Burr Condemns IRS for Targeting Conservative Groups The revelations over the weekend that the IRS has been intentionally targeting conservative groups are both disgraceful and inexcusable. The deliberate harassment of any individual or organization for their political beliefs is absolutely unacceptable and threatens the very essence of our individual rights as protected by our Constitution. While the IRS apologized for their actions on Friday, reports over the weekend demonstrate that much wider problems exist and that senior officials within the organization failed to correct the situation for nearly two years before the truth was finally revealed. President Obama needs to come out immediately to condemn these practices in the harshest of terms and hold people accountable. Where the administration has failed in protecting the public's trust, my colleagues and I in Congress will work tirelessly to find answers, demand accountability, and restore trust in our institutions of government.
05.02.2013	05.02.13 Senator Burr Congratulates Rep. Mel Watt On His Nomination As FHFA Director Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement congratulating Representative Mel Watt (D-NC) on his nomination to serve as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency: "Having served with Mel, I know of his commitment to sustainable federal housing programs and am confident he will work hard to protect taxpayers from future exposure to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I look forward to working with Rep. Watt in his new role to find new ways to facilitate more private sector involvement in the housing and mortgage markets."
04.29.2013	04.29.13 Senator Burr Congratulates Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx On His Nomination As Transportation Secretary Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement congratulating Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx on his nomination to Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation: "I am pleased to see the president look to North Carolina to fill this important cabinet position, and I congratulate Mayor Foxx on this honor. I look forward to introducing Mayor Foxx to my colleagues and working with him as his nomination moves through the Senate. I believe he will ably serve North Carolina and our nation as the next Secretary of Transportation."
04.25.2013	04.25.13 Sanders, Burr Propose Legislation for Homeless Veterans The chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs today proposed legislation to help the Department of Veterans Affairs meet its goal to eliminate veteran homelessness by 2015.
04.24.2013	04.24.13 Senator Burr Statement on Constituent Mailing Operations Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on constituent mailing operations: "Due to recent events surrounding the ricin mailings, there are lingering questions about the security of constituent mail and possible delays in its delivery. It is important to remember that amidst these unfortunate events, the mail screening system worked exactly the way it was intended to and everyone remained safe. Therefore, as a result of these developments, I encourage all North Carolinians to communicate with my office via our website, burr.senate.gov, or by sending mail directly to my Washington, DC office. As always, my staff will make sure that your letter gets to the appropriate person."
04.23.2013	04.23.13 Burr, Coburn, Thune Introduce Public Employee Pension Transparency Act Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tom Coburn (R-OK), and John Thune (R-SD) introduced the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act, legislation that will enhance transparency for state and local pensions and establish a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21), Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1), and Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49), will introduce companion legislation in the House this week. "For too long, taxpayers and government employees have been denied information about how badly government worker pension plans are underfunded. My bill would simply shed some light on these enormous liabilities. This information is only for the purpose of public disclosure; it does not tread on the rights of states and local governments to fund and control their own pension plans," said Senator Burr. "My bill also prevents a federal bailout of state and local government pension plans, empowering local governments to make the reforms needed to ensure problems cannot be dumped on taxpayers down the road." "This bill brings much needed transparency to the finances of public employee pension funds. Taxpayers and government employees currently do not have the tools necessary to identify mismanaged pension funds. This bill would change that by incentivizing states and local governments to submit reports detailing financial costs and solvency of public employee pension plans," Dr. Coburn said. "This legislation also ensures taxpayers will not be required to bailout mismanaged pension funds. Shielding taxpayers from funding bailouts and providing the tools necessary for transparent reporting are two ways to protect the health of pension funds that will benefit both taxpayers and public employees alike." "State and local government pension liabilities across the country are currently being understated and taxpayers have a right to know the true dimensions of this looming problem," said Senator Thune. "It is crucial that states provide more transparency and accountability regarding their pension liabilities and take necessary steps to get their balance sheets in order. While my state of South Dakota has a well-run pension plan that is not facing insolvency issues, there are a number of states that will exhaust their pension funding by 2020. Taxpayers should not be left on the hook for the unsustainable promises made by state and local governments. I hope my colleagues will join us in supporting this common-sense legislation to increase government transparency." The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act establishes new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that provides realistic rates of return and ties assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. The bill also specifically states that the federal government will not assume responsibility for any current or future shortfall in a state or local authority's pension plan. This is a clear policy statement that will help state and local governments address their very real pension problems. No longer can proponents of the status quo claim that there will be an endless source of contributions from taxpayers to keep plans running no matter how badly managed or underfunded. States will now have the moral standing to bring all stakeholders together to solve their problems. Taxpayers are stakeholders and now they will truly know what they are on the hook for in the context of those discussions. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, and the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030.
04.16.2013	04.16.13 Senator Burr Announces Opposition to Manchin-Toomey Amendment Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement in opposition to the Manchin-Toomey amendment to S. 649: "I oppose the Manchin-Toomey amendment and will vote against it. I supported having a debate on the issue of violent crime, but as I made clear from the outset, I will oppose any legislation that chips away at our Constitutional rights. After reviewing the current text of the Manchin-Toomey proposal, I have numerous Second Amendment, due process and privacy concerns that make the legislation too problematic for it to ever become law."
03.23.2013	03.23.13 Senator Burr Votes Against Irresponsible Senate Budget Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) voted against the fiscal year 2014 federal budget introduced by Senate Democrats. The budget resolution was ultimately adopted by the Senate on a 50-49 vote early Saturday morning. "While I am pleased that the Senate majority has brought its first budget in four years to the floor of the Senate, I regret the product that ultimately emerged," said Burr. "This budget adds trillions of dollars to the nation's debt, despite also raising taxes by more than $1 trillion. We need a budget that cuts federal spending, provides for serious, comprehensive reform of our tax code, and places our social safety net programs on a sustainable footing. This budget does none of these things, and shows once again that Senate Democrats are unserious about addressing them."
03.20.2013	03.20.13 Senator Burr Introduces Child Care Protection Act of 2013 Bill would require background checks for all child care providers Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senators Mikulski (D-MD),Hatch (R-UT), Rubio (R-FL), Bennet (D-CO), and Boxer (D-CA) introduced the Child Care Protection Act of 2013. This legislation requires comprehensive background checks for child care providers including state and federal fingerprint checks, sex offender registry checks, and a check of child abuse and neglect registries for all licensed, regulated, and registered child care providers. "When parents enroll their children in child care they shouldn't have to worry that they might be dropping their child off to be cared for by someone who has been convicted of a violent crime," Burr said. "Currently, background checks do not meet parents' expectations, and most states fail to ensure that child care providers have undergone a complete and thorough background check. This legislation allows parents to be confident that their children are being taken care of by qualified individuals in a safe environment." "When a parent goes to work or to school they should have peace of mind and know that their little boy or girl is in a safe and healthy environment," Senator Mikulski said. "As a social worker, I've seen the permanent scars that child abuse and neglect leaves on both the child and their family. The Child Care Protection Act will help protect our children through prevention, intervention and deterrence of child abuse." "Parents deserve the right to know that when they're dropping their children off at a child care provider that they'll be in a safe environment," said Senator Hatch. "This bill is an important step forward to give parents the reassurance that their child is at a safe facility that has undergone detailed and thorough background checks, and as a father, grandfather, and great grandfather, I think it's a responsible step to ensure that our youth are in a safe situation when at one of these facilities." "There are a lot of sick people out there preying on innocent children, and this measure will help prevent these individuals from securing child care jobs where they can do the most damage," Senator Rubio said. "Protecting kids and giving parents greater peace of mind that they are being cared for in safe environments by qualified professionals is a cause that should unite all of us." "As parents, we want to know that our kids are safe and in good hands when we drop them off at child care," Senator Bennet said. "This bill will give parents more peace of mind by bringing the vetting process for child care providers up to the standards that we expect for our children and help ensure that they're in a safe environment." Requirements for background checks vary greatly from state to state and only a handful of states require child care providers to complete a comprehensive background check. Although a recent survey found that 95% of parents with children under the age of 5 support background checks for child care providers, only 10 states currently conduct a full criminal background check that includes a fingerprint check of state and federal criminal records, a check of child abuse and neglect registries, and a check of the sex offender registry. The Child Care Protection Act of 2013 would require such comprehensive background checks for child care providers and require those background checks be repeated once every 5 years. More than 11 million children under age 5 are in some type of child care arrangement every week while their parents work. A parent survey conducted by the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies (NACCRRA) found that 85 percent of parents assumed that child care providers must have a background check to work with children.
03.14.2013	03.14.13 Senator Burr Introduces Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act Legislation would end arbitrary process that strips veterans of rights Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with 11 cosponsors, introduced legislation that would end the arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans and other Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) beneficiaries of their Second Amendment rights. Currently, veterans who have a VA appointed fiduciary to help them with their benefits are deemed "mentally defective" and are reported to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), a system which prevents them from being able to purchase firearms in the United States. The Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act would require that a judicial authority determine that VA beneficiaries pose a danger to themselves or others before they can be added to the FBI's NICS. "Depriving someone of a Constitutional right is a serious action, and veterans should be afforded the same treatment under the law as all other American citizens," Burr said. "This legislation would protect the rights of veterans and their families by ensuring that only a proper judicial authority is able to determine who is referred to NICS. Our veterans took an oath to uphold the Constitution and they deserve to enjoy the rights they fought so hard to protect." The Gun Control Act prohibits certain individuals who have been deemed a "mental defective" from purchasing a firearm. As of July 12, 2012, there were over 129,000 VA beneficiaries who had been reported to NICS, stripping them of their constitutional rights simply because VA appointed a fiduciary to act on their behalf. A fiduciary is assigned to handle disability compensation, pension benefits, survivors' compensation, and other VA payments on behalf of a veteran, surviving spouse, dependent child, or dependent parent. VA's review process for assigning a fiduciary is meant to determine one's ability to manage VA-provided cash assistance. The process does not determine whether they are a danger to themselves or others. Senators Boozman (R-AR), Wicker (R-MS), Risch (R-ID), Moran (R-KS), Chambliss (R-GA), Roberts (R-KS), Thune (R-SD), Enzi (R-WY), Vitter (R-LA), Crapo (R-ID), and Inhofe (R-OK) are cosponsors of the legislation.
03.14.2013	03.14.13 Burr Reorganization Bill Would Put Veterans’ Health Care First U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) Reorganization Act of 2013, a bill designed to streamline the regional administrative offices of the Veterans Health Administration so that our focus returns to getting care to our veterans. The bill would combine the current 21 VISNs into 12 VISNs to reallocate and better target funds to improve the quality and consistency of health care for our nation's war heroes. "The bureaucracy of our veterans' health care system has become so bloated that our nation's veterans are suffering as a result," Senator Burr said. "By reducing the number of administrative offices and reallocating staff and resources to our VA medical centers in the field, we can provide our nation's veterans and their families with the quality care they deserve." In 1995, Dr. Kenneth Kizer, former Undersecretary of Health for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), submitted a plan to Congress to restructure the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) with the intent of providing a "patients first" focus. This plan led to the creation of the VISN, a new structure designed to serve as the basic budgetary and planning units of the veterans' health care system. Each VISN would act as the operational arm of the VHA, handling all budget, management and oversight decisions for the VA medical centers located within its geographic boundaries and allocating resources where they are needed most. This structure was intended to take the budgetary decision-making powers away from the centralized VHA and empower VISNs with the independence to decide how best to provide care for the veterans in their region. It was also hoped that the health care centers, no longer weighed down by budgetary concerns, would be able to concentrate their efforts on enhancing veterans' access to better quality care. VHA, however, has significantly strayed from its initial goal of using VISNs as focal points for budgetary concerns, and patient care is suffering as a result. The VISNs are now bloated with staff who perform functions that have little to do with budget, management or oversight, let alone health care for veterans. In fact, VISN headquarters have grown well beyond the 220 total staff envisioned by Dr. Kizer to a total of 1,340 staff in 2011, siphoning precious dollars away from actual health care for veterans. In addition, VHA has not kept up with the significant shift in veteran demographics to see where veterans are getting their care and how they can design VISN geographic boundaries to best serve the veterans who are seeking care. By consolidating the geographic boundaries of 9 VISNs, this bill would restore their "patients-first" purpose. Each of the 12 VISNs would have no more than 65 full-time employees focused solely on budget, management and oversight in order to alleviate the strain of these functions on the VA medical centers. In addition, VA employees at the VISNs whose positions do not deal with the budget would be transferred to other positions within the VA where their talents may be put to better use. This bill would also instruct VA to conduct a review and assessment of the current VISN structure and operations every three years and report any recommendations for changes to the Senate and House Committees on Veterans Affairs. U.S. Senator Tom Coburn (R- OK) is an original co-sponsor. You may read a one-pager on the bill's further provisions here.
03.13.2013	03.13.13 Bill to Protect Americans From Bioterrorism and Pandemics Becomes Law H.R. 307 reauthorizes a law authored by Senator Burr in 2006 Today, President Barack Obama signed into law H.R. 307, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 (PAHPRA), a bill championed by Senator Burr to ensure that America is prepared to respond to a wide range of medical and public health emergencies. Senator Burr authored the original law in 2006 and introduced companion legislation in the Senate to the House bill that was signed into law today. "I am proud that this important bill to strengthen our ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies is now law," Senator Burr said. "The American people must be protected if an attack occurs, and this law will help ensure that we are better prepared to respond to threats facing our nation, whether they are naturally occurring or deliberate attacks." This law strengthens America's preparedness for and ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies, optimizes state and local all-hazards preparedness and response efforts and collaboration, enhances medical countermeasure activities, and reauthorizes key medical and public health programs, including the BioShield Special Reserve Fund. Additional information regarding PAHPRA can be found here. Senators Harkin (D-IA), Enzi (R-WY), Casey (D-PA), Alexander (R-TN), Mikulski (D-MD), Isakson (R-GA), Roberts (R-KS), and Chambliss (R-GA) were original cosponsors of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 in the Senate.
03.13.2013	03.13.13 Burr Bill Will Modify Commencement Date on Camp Lejeune Water Contamination Today, U.S. Senator Burr (R-NC) introduced a bill that would expand the eligibility timeframe for the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012. Current law extends health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to contaminated well-water at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina from 1957 to the 1980s. As a result of recent scientific findings, this bill would extend care to individuals exposed to contaminated water as early as 1953. In January of this year, the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) sent a letter to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) informing VA that there is sufficient data to substantiate that water contamination at Camp Lejeune exceeded safe levels for human consumption as early as August, 1953. Prior to this finding, the earliest year of confirmed contamination was 1957. Confirming that human carcinogens were present in the water as early as 1953 will give recourse to veterans and family members who served and lived on the base and have experienced adverse health effects due to their exposure to the contaminated water, but have been denied health care. "There are veterans out there, some of them in dire straits, who have been waiting a long time for these findings," Senator Burr said. "Until now, VA has been unable to help them. It is my hope that Congress will act quickly to pass this bill to get them the care they deserve. This is also good news for veterans' family members who are eligible for health care under the law enacted last year. These men and women have been suffering through no fault of their own and we owe them the care they need without delay." "It is our responsibility to care for the Marines and their families who were exposed to contaminated water aboard Camp Lejeune," said Senator Hagan. "After workingwith Senator Burrfor years to pass theHonoring America's Veterans andCaring for Camp Lejeune Families Act,I am proud to say thatbill is now law. However,new findings about the timeframe during which wells were contaminated means we must act to update the law. I will continue working with Senator Burr and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make this important update so thatveterans and theirfamilies that deserve care can access it." "Families impacted by the contamination at Camp Lejeune have waited long enough for these funds," Senator Rubio said. "Congress must act now to help the veterans and families that were impacted by these unfortunate conditions and that have unfairly been forced to cover the resulting costs." "We simply have to do what is right for our veterans and their families," said U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), a senior member of the Armed Services Committee. The legislation was introduced with 3 cosponsors: U.S. Senators Kay Hagan (D-NC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL).
03.07.2013	03.07.13 Senators Burr, Hagan Reintroduce Bill that Would Allow Off-Road Vehicle Use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senator Kay Hagan (D-NC), reintroduced the Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act, a bill that would reinstate the Interim Management Strategy governing off-road vehicle use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore (CHNS) and set aside current mandates and requirements that prevent off-road vehicle (ORV) and citizen access to a significant portion of this National Seashore. "Restricting ORV use on the Cape Hatteras National Seashore negatively impacts local communities and the local economy," Senator Burr said. "We must not block our citizens' access to North Carolina's scenic treasures. I am confident we can come to a compromise that allows people to have access while at the same time addressing any potential environmental concerns." "Our coast is a key part of North Carolina's tourism economy and a favorite destination for families from across the country," Senator Hagan said. "I will keep working with Senator Burr to ensure that unnecessary federal regulations do not harm Dare County's economy, which is dependent on beach access." If this bill is enacted, the National Park Service's Interim Management Strategy will go into effect immediately and end upon the National Park Service establishing a long-term off-road vehicle management plan for the use of CHNS by the public. In December 2005, the NPS began the negotiation process to create regulations that would allow CHNS to meet its compliance standards, and in June 2007, an Interim Management Strategy was implemented to provide a framework for regulating the CHNS while the NPS developed its long-term plan. This Interim Management Strategy allowed for controlled ORV access to the CHNS. However, on July 17, 2007, an injunction was filed by the Defenders of Wildlife and the National Audubon Society to prevent ORV use until a final management plan is established and approved by NPS. A settlement negotiation process ensued, and on April 30, 2008, a federal judge approved a consent decree that required all seashore ramps to be closed to ORVs from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m., created buffers that are in some cases more restrictive, and ruled that deliberate violations of the buffers would result in an expanded restricted area. In February 2012, the NPS implemented final rules, requiring that ORVs must obtain permits to access the CHNS, further limiting the accessibility of the park to vehicles.
03.07.2013	03.07.13 Senator Burr Introduces Careers for Veterans Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Careers for Veterans Act, a bill that would help create long-term, sustainable jobs for America's veterans by transitioning the skills they gained through their service into jobs in the civilian workforce. By making licenses and credentials in their chosen fields more accessible, this bill will help our nation's veterans and their families by opening up career opportunities for them without adding to the national deficit. Senators Isakson (R-GA), Heller (R-NV), Cornyn (R-TX), and Boozman (R-AR) are cosponsors of the bill. "America's military men and women have been trained in specializations that can be applicable in civilian life, and simplifying the transition of these skill sets into civilian careers makes the most of the skills they have developed and provides employers in the public and private sector with well-trained, competent employees," Senator Burr said. "This is a common sense move both for veterans and for our nation's job creators." "Considering we have the strongest military in the world, the skills and training that service members receive are top-notch. Allowing these men and women to put their skills to use immediately will lead to stronger communities and small businesses throughout the United States. I'm also pleased that this legislation includes measures to ensure surviving spouses and dependents are eligible for small business benefits after the death of a veteran, which I have also introduced along with Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV). Thank you to Senator Burr for his leadership on this common sense solution to help alleviate unemployment among our nation's veterans," said Senator Dean Heller. "This is a commonsense approach to addressing the long-term employment needs of our nation's veterans," said Senator Isakson. "The men and women of the United States military have learned valuable skills through their service to our country. Many of these skill sets are also needed in the civilian workplace, and this bill goes a long way in ensuring that veterans can leverage their skills into civilian careers. Our servicemen and women are highly motivated and make some of the best employees. We should help them enter into the civilian workforce so that employers can benefit from their talents and abilities." "In Texas, we know the value of the remarkable commitment and sacrifice our service members and their families make on our behalf," Senator Cornyn said. "Our veterans deserve that same level of commitment from their government. This bill takes a significant step towards assisting unemployed veterans by cutting out the mess of red-tape that currently greets members of our military as they transition from military to civilian life." "Our veterans have a proven successful work ethic and they deserve every opportunity we can provide them with the options long-term, meaningful employment," Boozman said. "The specialized skills they learned as members of the Armed Forces are an asset to any business and we certainly ought to seize the occasion to provide them priority consideration for careers in government service and other sectors." The Careers for Veterans Act would require the Director of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to coordinate with federal agencies and departments to hire 10,000 veterans to fill existing vacancies, utilizing the Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) authority over the next five years. OPM would have to report to Congress 180 days after enactment regarding implementation and would report yearly to Congress to describe the types of jobs veterans were hired for, grade and pay level, and the number of veterans converted to career appointment. The bill would also direct individual states to establish a program to administer examinations to each veteran seeking a license or credential without requiring that they undergo training or apprenticeship if they receive a satisfactory score on completion of the examination and have at least 10 years of experience in a military occupational specialty that is similar to a civilian occupation for which the state requires a license or credential. In addition, it includes several sensible small business that will assist veterans who are attempting to navigate VA's service disabled veterans owned small business (SDVOSB) verification process, as well as providing for better transfer of small businesses to spouses following the death of a service disabled veteran owner or active duty service member.
02.28.2013	02.28.13 Senator Burr Introduces “Vietnam Veterans Day” Resolution Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced a resolution to honor veterans who served in Vietnam by designating March 29 "Vietnam Veterans Day." March 29th marks the anniversary of the day that combat and combat support units withdrew completely from South Vietnam. "Despite serving honorably and bravely in Vietnam, our soldiers arrived home to a country in political turmoil and never received the recognition they deserved," Senator Burr said. "By setting March 29th aside as a day to remember and thank our Vietnam veterans, we can show our unified gratitude for their service and the sacrifices they made on our behalf." "Each and every American service member who sacrifices for our country deserves to be welcomed home by a grateful nation," Senator Boxer said. "Establishing a national day of recognition for veterans of the Vietnam War will honor their service and show the deep appreciation we feel for these brave men and women." Senator Burr encourages communities throughout the country to take measures to commemorate this day by honoring Vietnam veterans in their area. This is the third consecutive year that Senator Burr has introduced a resolution for the establishment of "Vietnam Veterans Day." Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) co-sponsored the legislation. The United States became involved in Vietnam because policy-makers believed that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia. The US Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1950, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam. After many years of combat, all US troops were withdrawn from Vietnam on March 29, 1973, under the terms of the Agreement Ending the War and Restoring Peace in Vietnam (commonly known as the "Paris Peace Accords"). More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam.
02.28.2013	02.28.13 Senator Burr Applauds Unanimous Passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 (PAHPRA) Today, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 (PAHPRA), a bill introduced by Senator Burr to ensure that America is prepared to respond to a wide range of medical and public health emergencies. "I am proud that the Senate has taken this very important step to strengthen our ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies," Senator Burr said. "The American people must be protected if an attack occurs, and this legislation goes a long way towards strengthening existing programs and ensuring we are better prepared and able to respond to threats facing our nation, whether they are naturally occurring like an epidemic or virus or deliberate like a chemical attack. I hope my colleagues in the House quickly pass this legislation so the President can sign it into law as soon as possible." This reauthorization legislation strengthens our nation's preparedness for and ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies, optimizes state and local all-hazards preparedness and response efforts and collaboration, enhances medical countermeasure activities, and reauthorizes key medical and public health programs, including the BioShield Special Reserve Fund. Additional information regarding this bill can be found here. Senators Harkin (D-IA), Enzi (R-WY), Casey (D-PA), Alexander (R-TN), Mikulski (D-MD), Isakson (R-GA), Roberts (R-KS), and Chambliss (R-GA) are original cosponsors of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013.
02.15.2013	02.15.13 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Events for February 19-21, 2013 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Guilford, Forsyth, Mecklenburg, and Buncombe counties between February 19-21. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. On Wednesday, Senator Burr will present twenty-two medals to Bethany Gauntt on behalf of her late father, Col. Ernest Holland, a World War II, Korean, and Vietnam War veteran. This ceremony will take place in the Senator's office in Winston-Salem. On Thursday, Senator Burr will present the Silver Star to Army veteran Lawrence Holder for gallantry in action during the Vietnam War. Tuesday, February 19 10:00 AM Senator Burr to attend UnitedHealth Group announcement UnitedHealthcare 3803 North Elm St. Greensboro, NC 12:45 PM Senator Burr to speak to students at Career Center High School 910 Highland Court Winston-Salem, NC 2:30 PM Senator Burr to preside over Medal Ceremony for the late Col. Ernest Holland, a WWII, Korean, and Vietnam War veteran 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC Wednesday, February 20 10:00 AM Senator Burr to attend National Association of Manufacturers award ceremony Ingersoll-Rand 801 East Beaty Street Davidson, NC 28036 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to North Mecklenburg/Lake Norman Rotary Club The Peninsula Club 19101 Peninsula Club Drive Cornelius, NC 2:00 PM Senator Burr to preside over Medal Ceremony for Lawrence Holder, a veteran of the Vietnam War Carolina's Aviation Museum 4672 First Flight Drive Charlotte, NC 28208 Thursday, February 21 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Buncombe County Early College 340 Victoria Rd. Asheville, NC 28801 12:30 PM Senator Burr to speak at Council of Independent Business Owners Lunch Magnolia's Restaurant 26 E. Walnut Street Asheville, NC 28801 1:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Eblen Charities 50 Westgate Parkway Asheville, NC 28806
02.14.2013	02.14.13 Senator Burr Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Renew and Improve Landmark Conservation Program Today Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) joined with Senator Max Baucus to introduce legislation in the United States Senate that would fully realize the Land and Water Conservation Fund's (LWCF) promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation. "I have seen firsthand the role that the Land and Water Conservation Fund plays in acquiring land and maintaining North Carolina's reputation as one of the most scenic and unique states in the country," Senator Burr said. "LWCF was founded as a separate trust that was to be funded by royalties from oil and gas exploration on federal land and water, but a significant portion of those royalties have been diverted by Congress to be spent on other purposes. I am proud to continue efforts to ensure that these funds are used for their original purpose -- to preserve parks and other wildlife spaces for future generations." Rather than using taxpayer money, LWCF receives a small portion - $900 million each year - of the billions of dollars in annual oil and gas royalties gained from exploration on federally owned land and water. By ensuring that royalties dedicated to LWCF are protected, the legislation would foster federal, state, and local conservation investments that boost tourism, expand recreation spending, protect water quality, insulate communities from natural hazards, sustain agriculture and forestry on private lands, provide habitat for fish and wildlife, and improve the quality of life that draws businesses and workers to communities. The program also includes grants to support state and local parks for conserving and developing close-to-home recreation areas and grants for forests and wildlife protection - which create jobs and help communities to attract and keep employers. In North Carolina, LWCF has protected many key public lands including Cape Hatteras and Cape Lookout National Seashores, Nantahala National Forest, Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, and Fort Raleigh National Historic Site. The legislation was introduced with 6 cosponsors: U.S. Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Mark Udall (D-CO), Jon Tester (D-MT), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Tom Udall (D-NM).
02.13.2013	02.13.13 Senator Burr Statement on the State of the Union Address Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on President Obama's State of the Union address: "President Obama's State of the Union address tonight sounded a lot like rhetoric we have heard from him in years past, but as we have learned, actions speak louder than words. It is time for the President to stop lecturing Congress and face the facts - his policies have failed, and they are making our economy worse. Our national debt is at an all time high, unemployment is rampant, and federal spending threatens to bankrupt our entitlement programs and will bury the next generation of Americans in debt. "Many of the challenges the President addressed tonight are the direct result of expanding the size and scope of the federal government and increasing the debt limit in hopes of putting our economy back on the right track. However, as families in North Carolina and across the nation know, throwing money at our problems is not the way to address our economic issues. "Words alone will not turn our economy around and put America back on the right track. I hope the President will work with Congress to reform our entitlement programs so they are viable for future generations of Americans and fix our tax code so that we can promote job creation, encourage economic growth, and provide a prosperous, fiscally sound future for American families."
02.07.2013	02.07.13 Senator Burr Introduces Bill to Better Prepare Nation for the Threat of Pandemics or Bioterror Attacks Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) along with Senators Harkin, Enzi, Casey, and Alexander introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013, a bipartisan effort to ensure that our nation is prepared to respond to a wide range of medical and public health emergencies, whether naturally occurring or the result of a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attack. As a result of the passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA) of 2006, the federal government, in partnership with state and local governments, took significant steps to strengthen our nation's medical and public health preparedness and response capabilities. Despite improvements in preparedness in recent years, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic and other emergencies at home and abroad underscore the need to maximize America's resilience to the full range of threats. Based on the lessons learned since enactment of PAHPA in 2006, this reauthorization makes targeted enhancements to existing preparedness and response programs and authorities. "The threats facing our nation are serious and we must address them accordingly. The American people expect us to do all that we can to prevent an attack and, if one should occur, be fully prepared to respond, including having safe and effective medical countermeasures readily available. While key progress has been made since PAHPA was signed into law, more work remains to be done," Senator Burr said. "This legislation redoubles our efforts to protect the American people by strengthening our existing programs and making targeted improvements in areas in which we know we must do better, including ensuring that our nation's medical countermeasure enterprise reflects and is prepared to respond to modern-day threats." This reauthorization strengthens our nation's preparedness for and ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies, optimizes state and local all-hazards preparedness and response efforts and collaboration, enhances medical countermeasure activities, and reauthorizes key medical and public health programs, including the BioShield Special Reserve Fund. Additional information regarding this bill can be found here. Senators Mikulski (D-MD), Isakson (R-GA), Roberts (R-KS), and Chambliss (R-GA) are original cosponsors of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013.
02.01.2013	02.01.13 Senator Burr Statement on the Nomination of Chuck Hagel to Serve as Secretary of the Department of Defense Yesterday's Armed Services Committee hearing on Chuck Hagel's nomination to be Secretary of Defense confirmed for me many of the concerns I had about the nomination. After reviewing the hearing, and Senator Hagel's answers to the questions put to him, it is clear that I cannot support his nomination and I will vote against his nomination should it reach the Senate floor.
01.10.2013	01.10.13 Senator Burr Applauds President for Signing Two Important Pieces of Veterans Legislation Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr applauded the signing of two bills by the President, S. 3202, the Dignified Burial and other Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2012, and H.R. 4057, the Improving Transparency of Education Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2012. S. 3202 included two provisions sponsored by Senator Burr. The first will help ensure the long-term efficiency of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims by requiring all judges to live within 50 miles of the Washington, DC, metropolitan area. "As anyone who has managed a business or office can tell you, things tend to run more smoothly when those people integral to the day-to-day operations are present," Senator Burr said. "If Veterans Court judges have to travel across the country to get to their offices, it could make it difficult for them to fully engage in their case work, manage their staff, and carry out their judicial functions. Our nation's veterans could suffer from these inefficiencies. By requiring judges to live near the court's office, we can help ensure that veterans receive the timely decisions from the Court that they deserve." Another provision that Senator Burr sponsored will help ensure that every veteran receives a dignified burial by authorizing VA to furnish a casket or urn to a deceased veteran when they are unable to identify the veteran's next-of-kin and sufficient resources are not otherwise available. "We owe a great deal to our nation's veterans and servicemembers, and our duty to them does not end when they pass away," said Senator Burr. "We must ensure that their remains are treated with dignity and respect and they are buried in a manner that reflects the honor they deserve." "Additionally, I'm pleased to have worked with Chairman Patty Murray (D-WA), as well as our colleagues on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, on passage the Improving Transparency of Education Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2012. This legislation, which will help provide increased information to veterans pursuing post-secondary education and better national outreach strategies for those populations, is the result of hard work during the legislative process, but also invaluable feedback from the higher education community that will play a critical role in the success of this legislation."
01.01.2013	01.01.13 Senator Burr Statement on Vote to Avoid Fiscal Cliff and Prevent Tax Increase on 99% of Americans U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement on today's vote to prevent a tax increase on 99% of Americans: "While the deal we voted on tonight was far from perfect and not as comprehensive as I had hoped, I supported this proposal because it protects 99% of Americans from increased taxes, it provides permanent certainty on the estate tax and Alternative Minimum Tax, it provides one year of protection for the reimbursement of doctors, it extends unemployment insurance for one year, and the net result of the deal provides over $600 billion that should be used to pay down our national debt."
12.30.2012	12.30.12 Senator Burr Statement on Fiscal Cliff Negotiations Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement on the status of negotiations on the fiscal cliff: "Negotiations on how to reach a deal to avoid the fiscal cliff have been ongoing since the President was reelected in November. Last night, Republicans laid an offer on the table, but the President instructed Majority Leader Reid not to make a counteroffer that could help move the process forward. The sticking point is simple - Republicans refuse to support a plan that uses new revenue from increased taxes for new, expanded government spending. The President told Congress and the American people that any new revenue would go towards paying down our national debt, but Democrats are insisting that the nearly $600 billion in new revenue should go towards new spending. Raising taxes on the American people so the government can spend more money is unconscionable, and it is not something I will support. "At this point, I think it is clear that the President is not serious about reaching a deal to avoid the fiscal cliff and is using our economy and the livelihood of American families and businesses for what he sees as political gain. Jeopardizing our economic recovery and being content to let our economy go over the cliff is a clear indication of where the President's priorities lie."
12.28.2012	12.28.12 Senator Burr Statement on Fiscal Cliff Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement regarding the fiscal cliff and ongoing negotiations:"While I am hopeful we will be able to reach a deal that will put our economy back on the right track, there has not been much reason for optimism lately. The issue is broader than simply avoiding the fiscal cliff. We are in this position because our economy is in a very dangerous place - we are spending more than we are bringing in every year, our national debt is over $16 trillion and climbing, and Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid are in jeopardy of going bankrupt. We must reform our tax code to make it less burdensome and ensure that all Americans pay their fair share. We need to cut federal spending to levels that are within our means rather than continue the current deficit spending that increases our national debt each second. And, we must make changes to our entitlement programs to keep them from going bankrupt and ensure that they remain viable for future generations of Americans."
10.02.2012	10.02.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for October 3, 2012 U.S. Senator Richard Burr announced the following events for Wednesday, October 3, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 or david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Wednesday, October 3 8:30 AMSenator Burr to tour Wireless Research Center 3331 Heritage Trade Drive Wake Forest, NC 9:30 AMSenator Burr to attend Wake Forest Chamber of Commerce Coffee Wake Forest Town Hall 301 South Brooks Street Wake Forest, NC 10:30 AMSenator Burr to tour 3Phoenix, Inc. 204 Capcom Ave. Wake Forest, NC 27587 12:00 PMSenator Burr to speak to Research Triangle Park Rotary Club Radisson Hotel RTP 150 Park Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 3:30 PMSenator Burr to visit Daniel Center for Science and Math 735 Rock Quarry Road Raleigh, NC
10.01.2012	10.01.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for October 2, 2012 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Nash and Wake counties on Tuesday, October 2. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 or david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, October 2 10:00 AM Senator Burr to attend Hiring Our Heroes Job Fair Home Depot Building 950 Home Depot Plaza Rocky Mount, NC 11:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to students at Rocky Mount High School Rocky Mount High School 1400 Bethlehem Road Rocky Mount, NC 2:30 PM Senator Burr to attend event at Lenovo Headquarters 5241 Paramount Parkway, Building 3 Morrisville, NC 4:00 PMSenator Burr to tour Builders of Hope 310 N. Harrington Street Raleigh, NC
09.12.2012	09.12.12 Senator Burr Statement on Attacks in Libya and Egypt I was shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the violent, destructive, and cowardly attacks on United States embassies and personnel in Libya and Egypt. These actions, which cost the lives of American personnel serving our nation abroad including Ambassador Chris Stevens, were not protests; they were attacks. I call on the governments of Libya and Egypt to live up to their responsibilities as host countries, to condemn these attacks, and do all in their power to bring those responsible to justice. While it is some consolation that Libyan officials have condemned these attacks, it is troubling that the Egyptian government and the Muslim Brotherhood have failed to do so. My prayers are with the families of these brave public servants in this difficult time.
09.11.2012	09.11.12 Senator Burr Statement on the 11th Anniversary of the 9/11 Attacks "Today, we remember those we lost on September 11, 2001, and we thank those out there serving to keep our nation safe everyday. "Eleven years have passed since that fateful morning, and not an American alive at the time will ever forget the horrors of that day. In the aftermath, we came together to deal with a national tragedy and were reminded not of those things that divide us, but of those things that unify us. In the wake of destruction and tragedy, we found hope." "I urge all Americans to look back to the days, weeks, and months that followed the 9/11 attacks and remember that sense of unity and patriotism that was so prevalent across our nation. Though it is our diversity and differences that, in part, make us such a great and unique nation, it is our common bonds that make us Americans."
09.07.2012	09.07.12 Senator Burr Statement on State Department’s Decision to Designate Haqqani Network a Terrorist Organization Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on the announcement by the Secretary of State that she will designate the Haqqani Network a terrorist organization: "I am very pleased that the State Department has announced they will designate the Haqqani Network, the most lethal component of the Taliban, a terrorist organization.This group, who routinely attacks civilian populations and has carried out high profile attacks on American and coalition forces, is violent, ruthless, indiscriminate in their killing, and, worst of all, well organized, well funded, and well trained.By designating them a terrorist organization, we will be able to more effectively pursue them and go after their financial and property interests, improving stability and security in the region and across the world."
08.14.2012	08.14.12 Senator Richard Burr Announces Events for Tuesday, August 14 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Guilford, Davidson, Randolph counties on Tuesday, August 14, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 or david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, August 14 8:30 AM Senator Burr to host NC Aerospace Supplier Conference Showplace 211 East Commerce Avenue High Point, NC 27260 12:15 PM Senator Burr to visit Lexington Rotary Club Smith YMCA 119 West Third Avenue Lexington, NC 27292 2:45 PM Senator Burr to visit Malt-O-Meal 2525 Bank Street Asheboro, NC 27203 4:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Pomona Quarry 413 S Chimney Rock Rd Greensboro, NC 27409
08.10.2012	08.10.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for Friday, August 10 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Sampson and New Hanover counties on Friday, August 10, 2012.Mediawishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 ordavid_ward@burr.senate.gov. Friday, August 10 10:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Hog Slat, Inc. 915 US Highway 421 Clinton NC 3:30 PM Senator Burr to visit GE Nuclear 3901 Castle Hayne Road Castle Hayne, NC 28429
08.09.2012	08.09.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for Thursday, August 9 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Wake, Nash, and Edgecombe counties on Thursday, August 9, 2012.Mediawishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 ordavid_ward@burr.senate.gov.
08.08.2012	08.08.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for Wednesday, August 8 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Wake and Johnston counties on Wednesday, August 8, 2012.Mediawishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 ordavid_ward@burr.senate.gov.
08.07.2012	08.07.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for Tuesday, August 7 Tuesday, August 7 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Cumberland, Harnett, and Wake counties on August 7, 2012.Mediawishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact David Ward at (202) 228-2971 ordavid_ward@burr.senate.gov.
08.06.2012	08.06.12 Senator Burr Statement on President Signing Bill to Care for Camp Lejeune Veterans and Families Into Law
07.27.2012	07.27.12 Senator Burr Urges President to Sign the Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) applauded passage of his bill, the Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act, in the Senate by unanimous consent.This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives last week and now goes to the President's desk to await his signature. This bill requires a report from the Secretary of State regarding the designation of the Haqqani Network as a terrorist organization.It also expresses a sense of Congress that the Haqqanis meet the necessary criteria to be designated a terrorist organization. The most lethal component of the Taliban, the Haqqanis are a violent extremist group who have perpetrated deadly attacks on U.S. forces and innocent Afghan civilians.Their size, resources, experience, and well organized execution of attacks make them an extremely dangerous group and a threat to American and global security. "The Haqqani's are violent, ruthless, indiscriminate in their killing, and, worst of all, they are well organized and well trained," Senator Burr said."This is a group who routinely targets civilians and uses murder as an intimidation tactic against the Afghan people.They have mounted numerous armed assaults and suicide attacks on civilians and U.S. forces with deadly effectiveness, yet they have not been designated as a terrorist organization.The message from Congress is clear, and I urge the President to act now." This bill requires the Secretary of State to submit a report to Congress within 30 days on whether the Haqqani Network meets the criteria for designation as a terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Naturalization Act.If the Secretary of State determines that they should not be classified as a terrorist network, this bill requires a detailed justification as to what criteria has not been met. By designating a group as a terrorist organization, the United States can more actively pursue them, limit their financial, property, and travel interests, and limit the ability of foreign governments to provide them with aid.This designation not only stigmatizes the group within the international community, but also deters financial support, increases public awareness of the group and their activities, and conveys America's concern about the named organization to foreign governments. The Haqqanis have been responsible for many high profile attacks recently including a September 10, 2011 truck bombing that injured 77 U.S. troops, aSeptember 13, 2011 attack on the U.S. embassy and NATO headquarters in Kabul in which nine people were killed, and, most recently, a June 22, 2012 attack on a civilian hotel in Afghanistan that left 20 people dead.
07.26.2012	07.26.12 Senator Burr Cosponsors Bill to Provide for Responsible Management of Corolla Wild Horses Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr announced the introduction of S. 3448, the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, a bill to provide for the responsible management of the wild-horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. "The Corolla wild horses are one of the many natural treasures of our state, and people travel from across North Carolina and the country to witness these wild horses in their natural habitat," Senator Burr said. "I am proud to cosponsor this bill that will provide for the care and management of these wild-roaming horses and give local organizations and authorities the tools they need to manage these horses without excessive federal involvement." The Corolla wild horses are indigenous to North Carolina and do not exist anywhere else in the world. This bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to enter into an agreement with the Corolla Wild Horse Fund, Currituck County, and the State of North Carolina to provide for the management of these horses to ensure that they continue to thrive in their natural habitat. This bill is the companion legislation to H.R. 306, introduced by Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3), which passed the House of Representatives on February 6, 2012.
07.19.2012	07.19.12 Senator Burr Announces Senate Passage of Veterans Bill That Includes Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, announced that the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012, a bill that improves services and care for veterans and includes a bill he wrote, the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act, passed the Senate unanimously. This legislation will require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. "This has been a long time coming, and unfortunately, many who were exposed to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune over the years have died as a result and are not with us to receive the care this bill will provide," Senator Burr said. "While I wish we could have accomplished this years ago, we now have the opportunity to do the right thing for the thousands of Navy and Marine veterans and their families who were harmed during their service to our country. I am encouraged that the House will pass this bill quickly and it will go to the President's desk for his signature." An estimated 750,000 people may have been exposed to probable and known human carcinogens in the base's water supply between the 1950s and 1980s. To date, this is the largest recorded environmental incident on a domestic Department of Defense installation. Also included in the bill was a proposal Senator Burr authored that will address the backlog of veterans' benefits claims by authorizing retroactive effective date for awards of disability compensation for applications that are fully-developed at submittal.
07.10.2012	07.10.12 Senator Burr Bill Would Revoke Security Clearance of Anyone Caught Leaking Classified Intelligence Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced the Deterring Public Disclosure of Covert Actions Act of 2012, a bill that would revoke the security clearance of any individual who discloses information about United States covert action programs. "There has been no shortage of news reports lately regarding covert and classified actions," Senator Burr said. "Such reckless disclosure of top-secret information compromises our national security, jeopardizes the work of our intelligence officers and overseas partners, and risks innocent lives. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I am privy to sensitive information about our national security that I have both a moral and a legal obligation to keep secret. Recently, however, it seems as though some individuals with similar access to information have chosen to pursue their own personal agenda over the interest of the American people. This must be stopped." This bill states that anyone who has an active security clearance or serves as an officer, employee, or contractor of the federal government will lose their clearance if they discuss or disclose the existence of a covert action as defined in section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947. Recent press stories based on classified information about covert operations underscore the importance to act quickly to protect the viability of American missions as well as the men and women executing them. The disclosure of such information also jeopardizes the lives of informants and strains partnerships with other intelligence agencies.
06.28.2012	06.28.12 Senator Burr Statement on Supreme Court Decision on President’s Health Care Law The Court has now fulfilled its obligation as final arbiter of the constitutionality of the President's health care law, and I thank them for their service.While the Court has been reviewing this law for months, American families and businesses have been reviewing it for years, and they have rendered their verdict as well.People on both sides of the health care debate will spend the days and weeks to come discussing the impact of today's ruling, but a few things remain clear: our health care system is broken, costs remain unchecked, and outcomes are not improving.I remain committed to addressing these concerns and fulfilling our obligation to the American people to lower health care costs, expand coverage and choice, and build on the innovation that sets America apart from the rest of the world. To read the full decision, click here.
06.21.2012	06.21.12 GAO Finds HRSA Failing Taxpayers, Patients, Due to Ineffective Management of Community Health Center Program (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - Today, U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK), Michael Enzi (R-WY), and Richard Burr (R-NC) sent the following letter to Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Administrator Mary Wakefield, PhD, RN, coinciding with two new reports, requested by the Senators, that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released today. These reports highlight management deficiencies by HRSA in overseeing the Health Center Program. GAO's first report underscores the need for improved oversight by HRSA to ensure grantees comply with the Administration's requirements. In the second report, GAO examines the health center's collaboration and competition with other health providers in the community. In their letter, the Senators ask HRSA for a management plan to address deficiencies and other concerns outlined in both GAO reports. "Though millions of underserved and low-income Americans are helped by the medical care and services they receive at health centers, the benefits of the program are more attributable to local health care providers than to HRSA's administration. As the GAO reports detail, HRSA's management of the program is inconsistent, inadequate, and inexcusable. Given the lack of strong internal controls and transparency, we are concerned that HRSA's mismanagement of the program could potentially waste taxpayer dollars or jeopardize patients' access to care," Coburn, Enzi and Burr wrote to Wakefield. To view text of the letter, click here. Background on the Community Health Center program: HHS' Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) provides grants to eligible health centers under Section 330 of the Public Health Service Act. In 2010, grants helped fund more than 1,100 health center grantees that provided services at more than 8,100 health care delivery sites and served nearly 19.5 million people. These grants made up over 20 percent of all health center grantees' revenues in 2010. Health centers funded through HRSA's Health Center Program are typically managed by an executive director, a financial officer, and a clinical director, and provide comprehensive primary care services including enabling services, such as translation and transportation, that help facilitate access to health care. Key findings highlighted in GAO's first report, "Health Center Program: Improved Oversight Needed to Ensure Grantee Compliance with Requirements" •To oversee grantees, HRSA relies on three tools: annual compliance reviews, site visits, and routine communications. •HRSA's timeframe for addressing grantee noncompliance can be overly generous. •HRSA's process for identifying noncompliance is insufficient. •HRSA's use of site visits to assess compliance is unclear. •HRSA's project officers do not consistently identify and document grantee noncompliance. Click here for the full report: GAO-12-546 - Health Center Program: Improved Oversight Needed to Ensure Grantee Compliance with Requirements. Key findings highlighted in GAO's second report, "Health Center Program: 2011 Grant Award Process Highlighted Need and Special Populations and Merits Evaluation" •HRSA intends to encourage collaboration in grant-making. •Health centers and providers in the communities GAO studied generally do not compete for patients. •Competition is more likely in rural areas, noting greater potential for competition between health centers and hospitals under "certain circumstances". Click here for the full report: GAO-12-504 - Health Center Program: 2011 Grant Award Process Highlighted Need and Special Populations and Merits Evaluation. Click here for a one-page summary of both reports.
06.20.2012	06.20.12 Senators Burr and Toomey Introduce Veterans Employment Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) andPat Toomey (R-Pa.) today introduced a bill to create a pilot program to help veterans find jobs based on their military experience. The bill, S. 3316, would set up a one-year pilot program at the Labor Department's One-Stop Centers to reform and streamline how veterans search online for jobs. The new search program would match veterans with available jobs based on the skills they've gained in the military, and employers would be able to post vacancies. "Our nation is experiencing record levels of sustained, high unemployment, and unfortunately, the veterans who courageously served our country are bearing the brunt of this as they return from war and struggle to find jobs in a hurting economy," said Sen. Burr,the ranking member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. "By enabling employers to post jobs targeted to specific military occupations on a website that simultaneously allows veterans to search for jobs in line with the skills they acquired during their military service, we can better connect employers with veterans whose skills would enhance their companies." "As a member of the Senate Veterans Jobs Caucus, I am very concerned about the ability of veterans, including those recently returning from Afghanistan, to find good jobs during this economic downturn. This bill would allow the Labor Department to test a new program to help veterans connect with employers and maximize the skills they've learned in the military," Sen. Toomey said. "The courageous men and women who serve in our armed forces deserve to return home to a steady job, a paycheck and a promising future."
06.20.2012	06.20.12 Senators Burr and Mikulski Announce Passage of Resolution Honoring 10th Anniversary of National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), introduced a resolution to honor the 10th anniversary of the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB) which passed the Senate unanimously last night. Since its establishment, the NIBIB has supported research in furtherance of the development of scientific advances in the fields of biotechnology, imaging, and biomedical engineering, as well as advance the application of biomedical technology. "I am pleased that the Senate has chosen to recognize the remarkable impact that biomedical research supported by the NIBIB has had on patients over the past decade," Senator Burr said. "I commend them for their strong commitment to research in the field of biotechnology, imaging, and biomedical engineering and for pursuing the next generation of life-saving treatments and technologies for our nation's patients." "The NIH is an engine in America's innovation economy," Senator Mikulski said. "It is not only a world-class institution. It is a job for so many Marylanders. It is a good salary for so many families. And it is a hope for those with loved ones suffering from a disease or condition that has no cure. I'm proud to support research and innovation at the NIBIB creating new treatments and cures to save lives and keep families healthy." The NIBIB was established as a component of the National Institutes of Health to carry out and support research to improve the detection, treatment, and prevention of disease by assembling diverse teams of scientists and engineers to pursue innovative medical therapies and technologies to better meet patients' health care needs. The research NIBIB has supported has helped to advance cutting-edge medical treatments. For example, new imaging technology has enabled researchers to more accurately identify tumors to better diagnose and treat certain types of cancer. The scientific and medical research conducted at and supported by the NIBIB offer the hope for accelerating treatments and cures for debilitating diseases and conditions that impact America's patients. Scientific breakthroughs in areas such as regenerative medicine, cancer treatments, and nanotechnology are helping physicians better target care and meet patients' individual needs. Senator Burr introduced the bill (H.R. 1795) to establish the NIBIB in 1999, and it was signed into law in December 2000.
06.13.2012	06.13.12 Senator Burr Announces North Carolina Student Selected as 2012 Library of Congress Junior Fellow Summer Intern WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) proudly announced that Katherine Flanagan from New Bern, North Carolina was selected by a panel of Library of Congress curators and specialists to participate in the Library's 2012 Junior Fellows Summer Internship Program. "The Library of Congress is our nation's oldest federal cultural institution, and I am proud that one of our own students from North Carolina will have the opportunity to help preserve its material so that future generations may benefit and learn from its magnificent collections, programs and exhibitions," Senator Burr said. The Library of Congress was founded in 1800 and is home to unparalleled collections and resources. Working under the direction of Library curators and specialists in various divisions, the Junior Fellows are exposed to a broad spectrum of library work: copyright, preservation, reference, access standards, information management, and digital initiatives. In the past, summer interns have identified hundreds of historical, literary, artistic, cinematic and musical gems in the course of their work, representing the Library's rich cultural, creative and intellectual assets. During the 10-week paid internship program, the interns will inventory, catalog, arrange, preserve and research a backlog of copyright or special-collections material in many different formats in various divisions. The focus of the program is on increasing access to the Library's collections and raising awareness of the Library's digital-preservation programs by making them better-known and accessible to members of Congress and researches, including scholars, students, teachers and the general public.
06.12.2012	06.12.12 SENATOR JOHN McCAIN INTRODUCES RESOLUTION URGING ATTORNEY GENERAL TO APPOINT SPECIAL COUNSEL TO INVESTIGATE NATIONAL SECURITY LEAKS Washington, D.C. ¬- U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) today introduced a Congressional Resolution expressing the Sense of the Senate that the Attorney General of the United States should appoint an outside special counsel to investigate the recent leaks to the news media of classified and highly sensitive information on U.S. military and intelligence plans, programs, and operations. The resolution is co-sponsored by Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Scott Brown (R-MA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John Cornyn (R-TX), Richard Burr (R-NC), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Rand Paul (R-KY), John Boozman (R-AR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA). The resolution reads, in part: Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that— (1) the Attorney General should— (A) delegate to an outside special counsel all of the authority of the Attorney General with respect to investigations by the Department of Justice of any and all unauthorized disclosures of classified and highly sensitive information related to various United States military and intelligence plans, programs, and operations reported in recent publications; and (B) direct an outside special counsel to exercise that authority independently of the supervision or control of any officer of the Department of Justice; (2) under such authority, the outside special counsel should investigate any and all unauthorized disclosures of classified and highly sensitive information on which such recent publications were based and, where appropriate, prosecute those responsible; and (3) the President should assess— (A) whether any such unauthorized disclosures of classified and highly sensitive information damaged the national security of the United States; and (B) how such damage can be mitigated. Read the resolution here.
06.07.2012	06.07.12 Senators Coburn, Burr Introduce the “Comprehensive Student Loan Protection Act” (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced the "Comprehensive Student Loan Protection Act," a bill to provide a long-term fix to the interest rate on subsidized student loans by changing the structure for all new federal student loans first disbursed after July 1, 2012, to become a fixed-variable rate. It requires the applicable rate of interest for student loans to be equal to the bond equivalent rate of 10-year Treasury bills auctioned at final auction prior to June 1st plus 3 percent. Lastly, it directs any remaining savings left over to be sent to the Treasury for the purpose of debt reduction. "Aside from benefiting student borrowers and putting money back into the pockets of taxpayers over time, moving to a market rate it is just the right thing to do," said Dr. Coburn. "Instead of spending our time debating which temporary fix will cause the least amount of pain in the short-term, my hope is that my colleagues will support a bill that provides a long term solution that will not require needless annual patching. This bill gives the system, students and the government certainty." "Stop-gap measures have been the norm on a multitude of issues in Washington lately, but one thing that is consistent among them is that short-term fixes are rarely the answer to the problem," Senator Burr said. "Not only will this bill bring loan payments down for students, but by indexing student loan rates to a market rate, we provide a long-term solution to this issue." The Congressional Budget Office included this proposal in its recent budget options, providing potential savings of $52 billion over ten years. The "Comprehensive Student Loan Protection Act" applies to all loans and would lower costs for most borrowers—including those who qualify for the maximum Subsidized Stafford at 3.4 percent. For text of the bill, click here.
06.07.2012	06.07.12 Senators Burr and Wyden Introduce Bill to Strengthen VA’s Pension Program & Protect America’s Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), introduced a bill designed to strengthen the VA pension program so it can fulfill its purpose of offering economic security to elderly, disabled, and low-income wartime veterans who truly rely on the program to avoid poverty. A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation, coupled with efforts of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, has shined light on the fact that some organizations are making a profit at the expense of veterans by exploiting loopholes in the pension program. These groups are reported not only to try to convince wealthy veterans who do not need financial assistance to manipulate their assets in order to become eligible for VA pension, but also to prey on elderly and disabled veterans by charging them exorbitant fees and selling them financial products that may prevent them from having adequate resources in a time of need. "Our nation's veterans have sacrificed much for our country, and the VA pension program is the least we can do to express our gratitude and ensure that veterans who honorably served our country in a time of war will never live in poverty," Senator Burr said. "We have a duty to protect the veterans who rely on this program from companies who threaten its ability to serve them by flooding the program with claims from beneficiaries who are not in need and to protect taxpayers from practices that undermine the integrity of this need-based program. By strengthening the pension program and implementing protections to discourage abuses, we can ensure that its benefits will be there for wartime veterans who genuinely need them now and in the future and help discourage companies from preying on elderly veterans." Although the VA pension program has income and net worth limitations, there are currently no procedures to check whether an applicant has recently transferred away assets in order to qualify. The bill would protect the program and veterans from abuses by creating a three year "look-back" period, authorizing VA to examine whether any assets were repositioned in the three years prior to an individual's application for VA pension. Depending on the value of the assets, VA could deny pension for up to three years if the applicant repositioned assets during the look-back period. In addition, VA could disregard asset transfers during the look-back period and allow the pension to be paid if it would avoid an undue hardship on an applicant in need of benefits. These protections not only are consistent with GAO's recommendations, but also are in line with changes VA itself has acknowledged are needed. Even more, similar protections have been tested and already apply to other need-based programs, such as Medicaid.
06.06.2012	06.06.12 Senator Burr Sees Signs of Potential and Concern on Intelligence Committee Trip to Israel, Egypt, Djibouti WASHINGTON, D.C. - Last week, as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Senator Burr traveled to Israel and Egypt where he visited with foreign officials to discuss regional security and stability. He also visited Camp Lemonnier, and met with U.S. Soldiers from Combined Joint Task Force - Horn of Africa. Also on the trip were Senators Udall (D-CO), Mikulski (D-MD), and Warner (D-VA). "This is a critical moment for the Middle East," Senator Burr said. "The region has tremendous potential. I am encouraged by what by all accounts appears to be a free and fair presidential election in Egypt and the establishment of a coalition government in Israel. Despite these positive signs, I am very troubled by the growing Iranian nuclear threat to the region and concerned by continued violence in the Sinai." The Senators, all members of the Intelligence Committee, traveled to Israel, Egypt, and Djibouti. In Israel, the delegation met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other top Israeli officials including Defense Minister Barak and National Security Advisor Admidror. These meetings provided the opportunity to restate America's strong support for Israel in light of the Iranian threat. The Senators also met with Palestinian National Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and other senior officials. "While in Israel, I had the opportunity to reassure the Prime Minister and other officials of our support for their nation and their goal to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons and I stand ready to work with them in furtherance of their efforts," Senator Burr said. Following their stop in Israel, the Senators traveled to Egypt - only days after the country's first democratic presidential election in modern history. The delegation met with members of the Supreme Council of Armed Forces, members of the Shura Council, and visited Tahrir Square. These meetings provided the opportunity to discuss the recent election, transition plans, and security in the Sinai Peninsula. After Egypt, the delegation visited U.S. troops stationed at Camp Lemonnier, Djibouti. Camp Lemonnier supports approximately 2,500 U.S., joint and allied forces military and civilian personnel and U.S. Department of Defense contractors, and Senator Burr enjoyed the opportunity to meet with several North Carolina based personnel.
05.25.2012	05.25.12 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Event for May 25, 2012 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will speak at a graduation ceremony in Harrells, NC this evening. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Friday, May 25 Deliver Remarks at Graduation Ceremony Harrells Christian Academy 7:00 PM 360 Tomahawk Highway Harrells, NC 28444
05.23.2012	05.23.12 Baucus, Burr Investigate Nonprofit for Exploiting Veterans, Taxpayers, Abusing Tax-Exempt Status Senators Demand Answers from Disabled Veterans National Foundation About Potential Charity Abuses, Failure to Provide Services to Disabled Veterans Washington, DC - Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Veterans' Committee Ranking Member Richard Burr (R-N.C.) initiated an investigation today into the potential abuses of tax-exempt nonprofit status by the Disabled Veterans National Foundation (DVNF), following reports of questionable financial ties between DVNF and Quadriga Art, a marketing firm that handles its direct mail. According to tax records, DVNF raised tens of millions of dollars over a two year period, yet reports indicate very little of the money went to directly help disabled veterans. Instead, DVNF apparently paid large sums to Quadriga Art in 2009 and 2010. In a letter sent to DVNF President Precilla Wilkewitz, Baucus and Burr requested documents and information relating to DVNF's fundraising and marketing activities, services provided to disabled veterans, and connections to Quadriga. "Our veterans should never be used as pawns in a scheme to exploit the taxpayers," Baucus said. "The tax exemption for charities exists to promote worthwhile causes like assistance to veterans, not to provide tax loopholes to abuse. DVNF has a responsibility to show it's genuinely helping veterans and playing by the rules." "Our nation's veterans and their family members have gone above and beyond in their service to our country, and they and their families deserve to be treated with honor and dignity, not taken advantage of by scam artists," Senator Burr said. "Veterans service organizations play a vital role in providing the care and support we owe our veterans and military families, but there must be oversight to ensure that no one abuses the relationship of trust that has been established between this community and the organizations helping them." The Senators raised concerns about recent news reports that showed DVNF raised nearly $56 million in donations since it was founded in 2007, yet has paid Quadriga and its subsidiaries nearly $61 million between 2008 and 2010. According to the independent watchdog group CharityWatch, DNVF has received an "F" grade for its questionable balance of fundraising and legitimate donations. In order to qualify for tax exempt status, section 501(c)(3) organizations like DVNF must be operated primarily for charitable purposes and must not engage in transactions that benefit private interests or organization insiders. They also must not have any substantial purpose deemed nonexempt, so if an organization spends only a small fraction of its funding on its stated charitable purpose, it may be ineligible for 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status. The Finance Committee has jurisdiction over revenue matters and conducting oversight on the administration of the federal tax system, such as matters involving tax-exempt organizations. Baucus has previously called on the IRS to investigate the use of tax-exempt organizations for political activity, which is limited under the U.S. tax code. Over the past decade, the Committee has focused extensively on whether tax exempt groups have been used for financial or political gain. The full letter to DVNF appears below: May 23, 2012 Precilla Wilkewitz President Disabled Veterans National Foundation 1634 I St. N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006 Dear Ms. Wilkewitz: The Senate Finance Committee has jurisdiction over revenue matters, and is responsible for conducting oversight of the administration of the federal tax system, including matters involving tax-exempt organizations. The Committee has focused extensively over the past decade on whether tax-exempt groups have been used for financial or political gain. The central question examined by the Committee has been whether certain charitable and social welfare organizations have violated the requirements to qualify for the tax-exempt status provided under the Internal Revenue Code. Recent media reports have identified issues related to the operation of the Disabled Veterans National Foundation (DVNF), which is organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization under the U.S. tax code. For example, a CNN report raised questions about DVNF's marketing expenditures, relationship to its marketing partners, and assistance to disabled veterans. We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude that can never fully be repaid. We work hard in the Senate every day to improve veterans' health care, advance veteran educational opportunities through the New GI bill, and make it easier for businesses to employ veterans when they leave the military. We will continue to stand up for our veterans in every way we can. Based on this commitment, we believe an organization which purports to help disabled veterans and operates as a tax-exempt organization deserves special scrutiny. Section 501(c)(3) organizations must be operated exclusively for one of the charitable or other purposes described in the tax code. This has been interpreted to mean that the organization must be operated primarily for such purposes, and the organization may not have a single substantial nonexempt purpose. If an organization is spending a very small fraction of its resources and time on activities related to its tax exempt purpose, that organization arguably may not be in compliance with the exemption requirements of section 501(c)(3). Section 501(c)(3) organizations are also prohibited from engaging in private inurement transactions (generally, transactions for the benefit of private interests of organization insiders). As an enforcement mechanism, section 4958 of the tax code imposes intermediate sanctions on excess benefit transactions between a section 501(c)(3) or (4) organization and its officers, directors, key employees, and others in a position to exercise substantial influence with respect to the organization. In order for the Committee to analyze whether DVNF meets the standards for a 501(c)(3) organization, please provide the following information: 1.For calendar years 2009, 2010 and 2011, please provide the dollar amounts raised by your organization. 2.Please provide the amounts spent to raise funds for each of these years. 3.Please provide a list of the persons or contractors employed to raise these funds and the amount paid to them. 4.Please provide the total cost of salaries for staff and management, and any compensation provided to DVNF board members for each of these years. 5.Please provide an estimate of the number of disabled veterans and/or other veterans assisted by your organization, a detailed description of the assistance that was provided to those veterans, how your organization determined that such assistance could be helpful to those veterans, and the cost of providing the assistance. 6.What percentage of your organization's financial resources, staff time, and volunteer time are devoted to exempt activities? 7.What are the organization's exempt activities? 8.Do DVNF and Quadriga Art, LLC share common board members, and or officers, and or employees? 9.What are the terms of Quadriga Art's fundraising contract with DVNF? 10.Does DVNF have any financial interests or relationships with contractors other than Quadriga Art LLC? 11. Please provide a copy of the DVNF's original application for tax exemption. 12. Please provide samples of the organization's solicitations for charitable contributions. 13. DVNF apparently attributes a portion of the direct mail expenditures to program service expenses and to management and general expenses, as opposed to fundraising expenses. What is the basis for DVNF allocating the direct mail expenses to categories other than fundraising? 14.Please provide any written agreements or contracts with fundraisers Brick Mill and Convergence Direct. We look forward to hearing from you no later than June 6, 2012. If you have any questions please do not hesitate to call [staff redacted] on the Finance Committee staff, at 202 224-4515. Sincerely, Max Baucus Chairman Richard Burr Senator
05.22.2012	05.22.12 Bennet – Burr Statement on Track and Trace Language in FDA User Fee Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following joint statement regarding the pharmaceutical drug distribution security provisions included in the FDA user fee bill that the Senate began debating this week. This is intended to set forth aspects of a uniform, national traceability framework and allow for continued discussions on this policy as Congress works toward a final FDA user fee bill. "We've heard from numerous stakeholders regarding the importance of this issue. We appreciate the critical feedback we have received from our colleagues and a broad range of stakeholders as we have worked together to develop a uniform, national drug traceability system that improves the security and safety of our drug supply chain for consumers," Senators Bennet and Burr said. "The framework in the current bill enables us to continue the bipartisan work under the leadership of Chairman Harkin and Ranking Member Enzi. Our language is built on the principle of advancing a workable product tracing framework informed by risk-based circumstances surrounding counterfeit, diverted, stolen, and other suspect products. We look forward to continuing to work with Chairman Harkin, Ranking Member Enzi, and the full range of stakeholders, including the FDA, to find consensus on this critically important and complex issue."
05.22.2012	05.22.12 Senators Burr and Brown Introduce Small Business Bill For Vets U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Scott Brown (R-MA) have introduced the Veterans' Small Business Opportunity Act of 2012, which updates the Veterans Benefits Code within the Department of Veteran Affairs to further assist spouses of deceased veterans who received benefits under the VA's service disabled veteran owned small business (SDVOSB) program. Current law allows for a transfer of the SDVOSB designation to a spouse only if the veteran's death was caused by a disability attributable to the veteran's active duty service. When a veteran small business owner dies from causes deemed unrelated to service, the spouse immediately loses those benefits. As a result, he or she is unable to pass off the business to another veteran or reestablish a business model. This legislation would provide a three year transfer period for surviving spouses not covered under current law. "Our nation's disabled veterans and their families have sacrificed much for our country, and we will forever be in their debt," said Senator Burr, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. "Military families are the backbone of our armed forces, and many of them have faced grave difficulties as their loved ones suffer from physical and emotional wounds of military service. Giving the surviving spouse of a deceased disabled veteran sufficient time to plan for the future of their family-owned business is one small way to express our gratitude." "We honor our veterans by the way we take care of their families," said Senator Brown, member of the Senate Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' Affairs. "Our veterans' spouses have sacrificed so much, and a family business shouldn't be punished when a veteran unexpectedly passes away. Their spouse should have some time to get the business on solid ground. My bill provides a three year transition period where spouses and families will have the opportunity to keep a veteran-owned business stable as they prepare for the future." "Disabled American Veterans commends Senators Scott Brown and Richard Burr for introducing the Veterans Small Business Opportunity Act, which would provide a three-year transition period for service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses to retain their federal protected status following the death of a disabled veteran rated less than 100% disabled, or if the veteran did not die of a service-connected disability," said DAV Washington Headquarters Executive Director Barry Jesinoski. "This legislation would allow time and opportunity for the disabled veteran's heirs to restructure the business as necessary." Veterans' Small Business Opportunity Act of 2012: The legislation would amend the Veterans' Benefits Code under the Department of Veterans Affairs to allow for a 3-year transfer period of contracting benefits to a surviving spouse if a veteran dies of causes not related to service. This enables the spouse to have transition time to determine the best option for the survival of the veteran's small business. About the Veterans' Benefits Code: The Veterans' Benefits Code provides an array of federal assistance programs to veterans, including service-disabled veterans. If a service-disabled veteran owned small business (SDVOSB) qualifies as such with the Department of Veterans Affairs, government procurement offices use special consideration for that small business owner in awarding government contracts.
05.21.2012	05.21.12 GAO Finds Not All FDA Employees Are Held Accountable for Meeting User Fee Agreement Goals (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC) today highlighted the findings of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report - "Food and Drug Administration: Employee Performance Standards for the Timely Review of Medical Product Applications." Given FDA's statutory commitment to meeting specific performance goals, Sens. Coburn and Burr asked GAO to examine whether or not FDA reviewers are professionally accountable to help FDA meet its performance goals under user fee agreements. GAO examined whether or not employee personnel templates used to assess employee performance include any mention of PDUFA-or MDUFA-related goals (Prescription Drug or Medical Device User Fee Agreements). A review of the evidence shows that, during the period of GAO's evaluation, not all FDA employees involved in the review process of medical products were required to be explicitly evaluated with regard to their role in helping the FDA meet the user fee agreement goals. "Earlier this year, GAO empirically demonstrated the FDA's inconsistency in meeting key performance goals. This report takes it a step further and confirms what many feared: FDA has not adequately institutionalized accountability for meeting user fee goals," said Senator Coburn. "Despite agreeing to review goals and timelines negotiated with the device and drug industries, FDA could not tell GAO the number of total reviewers involved in the review process, nor were all personnel involved individually held accountable in their annual performance review. The result of higher employee performance standards has the potential to save the lives of so many patients who rely on FDA to make timely decisions that will allow them access to life-saving medical products that are waiting to hit the market." "America's patients depend on the FDA for timely review of safe and effective life-saving medical products, and the Agency should be held accountable for meeting its performance goals. A GAO report released today on FDA employee performance underscores an opportunity to improve accountability at the employee level when it comes to timely review of user fee agreements for prescription drugs and medical devices," said Senator Burr. "Congressional oversight is critical for helping FDA to identify steps to strengthen their work on behalf of patients. The Senate FDA user fee reauthorization bill includes important transparency and accountability provisions from the Burr-Coburn PATIENTS' FDA Act, which will help FDA better achieve its important public health mission on behalf of patients." Key Findings • At the time of GAO's review, not all performance management plans for Center Directors explicitly included timeliness goals related to PDUFA or MDUFA. • FDA could not tell GAO how many employees were directly involved in the work of meeting the UFA goals. While GAO said FDA does know how many FTEs are associated with UFA-related work, GAO said this does not equate to people. FDA also could not tell GAO the percentage of time their work was focused on the UFA goals. • FDA could not tell GAO how many of the roughly 250 Commission Corp staff participating in the review process were expected to meet timeliness goals or the more explicit UFA goals, because the Corp staff are not required to use FDA's performance templates. • FDA's tracking of management performance is not centralized and electronic; it is dispersed and paper-based. Additional Findings By Center • Center for Drug Evaluation and Research—For non-executive employees, timeliness was mentioned as one part of the performance plan templates that CDER provided for all 18 nonexecutive employee positions involved in the review of applications. However, none of the templates explicitly stated that the employees are expected to meet timeliness goals associated with PDUFA. • Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research—Employee timeliness is mentioned in the performance plan templates CBER provided for all five nonexecutive employee positions involved in the review of applications, but only two of these templates explicitly stated that the employees are expected to meet timeliness goals associated with PDUFA or MDUFA. •Center for Devices and Radiological Health—Employee timeliness is mentioned in the performance plan templates CDRH provided for all six nonexecutive employee positions involved in the review of applications, but only four of these templates explicitly stated that the employees are expected to meet timeliness goals associated with MDUFA.
05.17.2012	05.17.12 VETERANS: Murray, Burr Introduce Bill to Ensure Dignified Burials Comes after veteran’s remains were discovered to have been buried in cardboard box Washington, D.C.) - Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member, introduced legislation to help ensure every veteran receives a dignified burial. The Dignified Burial of Veterans Act of 2012 would authorize the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to furnish a casket or urn to a deceased veteran when VA is unable to identify the veteran's next-of-kin and determines that sufficient resources are not otherwise available to furnish a casket or urn for burial in a national cemetery. This bill would further require that VA report back to Congress on the industry standard for urns and caskets and whether burials at VA's national cemeteries are meeting that standard. Under current law, VA is not authorized to purchase a casket or urn for veterans who do not have a next-of-kin to provide one, or the resources to be buried in an appropriate manner. Chairman Murray and Ranking Member Burr, joined by U.S. Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Marco Rubio (R-FL), introduced this legislation after a veteran, with no known next-of-kin, was buried in a cardboard container at a VA National Cemetery in Florida. The exposed remains were discovered during a raise and realign project at the cemetery. The veteran's remains were later placed in a bag and reburied with what was left of the cardboard box. "When America's heroes make a commitment to serve their country, we make a promise to care for them," said Chairman Murray. "That includes helping to provide them with a burial honoring their service. I was deeply disturbed when I heard this news. There is no reason why the remains of a veteran should ever be treated with this lack of dignity. I am pleased we are taking the appropriate steps to right this indescribable wrong." "Those who have served our country in uniform deserve our honor, appreciation, and respect, and that responsibility does not end when they pass away," said Senator Burr. "My heart goes out to those affected by the problems at the Florida National Cemetery in Bushnell. We must ensure that the remains of veterans and servicemembers are treated with dignity and respect and that the families of those who have passed away have no doubts as to the quality of the final resting place of their loved ones." "All veterans deserve a dignified final resting place," said Senator Nelson. "A cardboard box certainly isn't one. That's why we've got to make sure this doesn't happen again." "Those who serve our nation in uniform deserve our respect and support, from the moment they commit to serve through their deaths and even beyond as we honor their legacies," said Senator Rubio. "Providing dignified burials for veterans is a solemn pledge we must uphold. Cases like this are outrageous and need to be corrected so that no deceased veteran is ever dishonored in this way again."
05.16.2012	05.16.12 Senator Burr Statement on the Unanimous Rejection of the President’s Budget Proposal Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement regarding the Senate's 99-0 vote against the President's federal budget proposal: "Despite our troubled economy and our $15 trillion national debt, President Obama and Senate Democrats refuse to propose a responsible federal budget. Today, the Senate voted unanimously against the President's budget proposal which failed to rein in spending and reduce the national debt, imposed taxes that would have inhibited economic growth, ignored the pending insolvency of Medicare and Social Security, and used budget gimmicks to create the illusion of savings. "Merely voting down this destructive proposal is not enough, however. We made a promise to the American people who elected us into the Senate to do our jobs, yet it has been over three years since the Democrat controlled Senate passed a budget. This is inexcusable. A responsible budget is a vital first step toward getting our economy back on track and reducing our massive debt. American families understand that times are tough, and they are making sacrifices in order to make ends meet. The federal government, on the other hand, continues to spend like there is no tomorrow. We need a serious budget that will tackle our economic crisis, work towards job creation, and provide for the security of future generations, not more of the same inaction and lack of resolve."
05.11.2012	05.11.12 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Medal Presentation Ceremony for May 14 On Monday, May 14, 2012, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will present medals to honor the courageous service of two veterans, Robert Hooper of Granite Quarry, NC and Larry Wayne Annas of Granite Falls, NC, in his Winston-Salem office. Media wishing to cover these ceremonies should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Monday, May 14 Senator Burr to preside over service-related medal presentation ceremony 3:30 PM 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC 27104
05.10.2012	05.10.12 Burr Reorganization Bill Would Put Veterans’ Health Care First WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) Reorganization Act of 2012, a bill designed to streamline the regional administrative offices of the Veterans Health Administration so that our focus returns to getting care to our veterans. The bill would combine the current 21 VISNs into 12 VISNs to reallocate and better target funds to improve the quality and consistency of health care for our nation's war heroes. "The bureaucracy of our veterans' health care system has become so bloated that our nation's veterans are suffering as a result," Senator Burr said. "By reducing the number of administrative offices and reallocating staff and resources to our VA medical centers in the field, we can provide our nation's veterans and their families with the quality care they deserve." In 1995, Dr. Kenneth Kizer, former Undersecretary of Health for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), submitted a plan to Congress to restructure the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) with the intent of providing a "patients first" focus. This plan led to the creation of the VISN, a new structure designed to serve as the basic budgetary and planning units of the veterans' health care system. Each VISN would act as the operational arm of the VHA, handling all budget, management and oversight decisions for the VA medical centers located within its geographic boundaries and allocating resources where they are needed most. This structure was intended to take the budgetary decision-making powers away from the centralized VHA and empower VISNs with the independence to decide how best to provide care for the veterans in their region. It was also hoped that the health care centers, no longer weighed down by budgetary concerns, would be able to concentrate their efforts on enhancing veterans' access to better quality care. VHA, however, has significantly strayed from its initial goal of using VISNs as focal points for budgetary concerns, and patient care is suffering as a result. The VISNs are now bloated with staff who perform functions that have little to do with budget, management or oversight, let alone health care for veterans. In fact, VISN headquarters have grown well beyond the 220 total staff envisioned by Dr. Kizer to a total of 1,340 staff, siphoning precious dollars away from actual health care for veterans. In addition, VHA has not kept up with the significant shift in veteran demographics to see where veterans are getting their care and how they can design VISN geographic boundaries to best serve the veterans who are seeking care. By consolidating the geographic boundaries of 9 VISNs, this bill would restore their "patients-first" purpose. Each of the 12 VISNs would have no more than 65 full-time employees focused solely on budget, management and oversight in order to alleviate the strain of these functions on the VA medical centers. In addition, VA employees at the VISNs whose positions do not deal with the budget would be transferred to other positions within the VA where their talents may be put to better use. This bill would also instruct VA to conduct a review and assessment of the current VISN structure and operations every three years and report any recommendations for changes to the Senate and House Committees on Veterans Affairs. You may read a one-pager on the bill's further provisions here.
04.30.2012	04.30.12 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Events for May 1 - 3, 2012 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Union, Alamance and Durham counties between May 1 - 3, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Tuesday, May 1 Tour Safran Turbomeca 3:00 PM Safran Turbomeca 4120 Goldmine Road Monroe, NC 28110 Thursday, May 3 Tour General Electric Company 11:00 AM 6801 Industrial Drive Mebane, NC 27302 Tour Triangle Residential Option for Substance Abusers 1:00 PM 1820 James Street Durham, NC 27707 Tour Novan, Inc. 3:00 PM 4222 Emperor Boulevard # 470 Durham, NC 27703
04.26.2012	04.26.12 Burr Bill Would Allow Off-Road Vehicle Use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senator Kay Hagan (D-NC), reintroduced the Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act, a bill that would reinstate the Interim Management Strategy governing off-road vehicle use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore (CHNS). The reinstatement of the original Interim Management Strategy, issued by the National Park Service (NPS) on June 13, 2007, would set aside current mandates and requirements which were put in place in the wake of a consent decree filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina that prevent off-road vehicle (ORV) and citizen access to a significant portion of this National Seashore. "Restricting ORV use on the Cape Hatteras National Seashore has a negative impact on local communities and the local economy," Senator Burr said. "We must ensure that our state's residents have access to North Carolina's scenic treasures, and I am confident we can come to a compromise that allows people to have access while at the same time addressing any potential environmental concerns." If this bill is enacted, the National Park Service's Interim Management Strategy will go into effect immediately and end upon the National Park Service establishing a long-term off-road vehicle management plan for the use of CHNS by the public. In December 2005, the NPS began the negotiation process to create regulations that would allow CHNS to meet its compliance standards, and in June 2007, an Interim Management Strategy was implemented to provide a framework for regulating the CHNS while the NPS developed its long-term plan. This Interim Management Strategy allowed for controlled ORV access to the CHNS. However, on July 17, 2007, an injunction was filed by the Defenders of Wildlife and the National Audubon Society to prevent ORV use until a final management plan is established and approved by NPS. A settlement negotiation process ensued, and on April 30, 2008, a federal judge approved a consent decree that required all seashore ramps to be closed to ORVs from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m., created buffers for nests and chicks that are clearly defined and in some cases more restrictive, and ruled that deliberate violations of the buffers would result in an expanded restricted area. In February 2012, the NPS implemented final rules, requiring that ORVs must obtain permits to access the CHNS, further limiting the accessibility of the park to vehicles.
04.25.2012	04.25.12 Senator Richard Burr’s Statement on Mark-Up of FDA Safety and Innovation Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's mark-up of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act: "I am pleased that many of the key provisions of the Burr-Coburn PATIENTS' FDA Act are included in the manager's package we are considering today, and I am even more pleased that we found a bipartisan path forward to increase transparency and accountability at FDA. These provisions support meaningful congressional oversight that will help ensure timely decisions on behalf of America's patients. "America's patients deserve access to the latest, most effective life-saving treatments, but red-tape at the FDA is stifling scientific investment and innovation, which is a disservice to medical innovators and can delay patients' access to medical therapies. "I am also pleased that the Advancing Breakthrough Therapies for Patients Act, a bipartisan bill I introduced with Senators Bennett and Hatch, was also included in today's package. We owe it to patients to provide a clear pathway for expediting the development and review of breakthrough therapies so promising innovation can reach patients as soon as possible. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to find a workable path forward on bipartisan legislation to secure the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain integrity."
04.24.2012	04.24.12 Congressional VA Committees Request Administration’s Assistance in Caring for Lejeune Veterans On Friday, April 20, Senators Patty Murray and Richard Burr and Congressmen Jeff Miller and Bob Filner, Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Veterans' Affairs Committees in the Senate and House, sent a letter to President Obama asking for his assistance in expediting health care for the many veterans and family members who are sick as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. VA Secretary Shinseki indicated in a letter to Congressman Miller that policy decisions must be postponed until more scientific evidence is revealed linking water contamination at Camp Lejeune to illness. The Chairmen and Ranking Members believe that there is already sufficient evidence to give veterans and family members the benefit of the doubt, including the EPA's acknowledgement that trichloroethylene (TCE), a chemical which contaminated the water supply system at Camp Lejeune, is directly linked to cancer. Senators Murray and Burr and Congressmen Miller and Filner will continue their bipartisan efforts to advance legislation to provide health care services to the veterans and family members who have suffered health consequences due to no fault of their own. They hope to expedite these efforts, however, by working with the Administration to identify existing funds and resources that may be reallocated to pay for the cost. You may read a copy of the letter here.
04.18.2012	04.18.12 Senators Burr and Coburn Introduce PATIENTS’ FDA Act Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Tom Coburn (R-OK) introduced the Promoting Accountability, Transparency, Innovation, Efficiency and Timeliness at FDA (PATIENTS' FDA) Act, a bill to help make sure that the FDA fulfills its mission to ensure that patients have access to cutting-edge, life-saving drugs and devices as quickly as possible. Meaningful Congressional oversight will ensure that the FDA is held accountable for its performance goals and is fulfilling its public health mission on behalf of patients in a predictable and timely manner, including decisions on life-saving drugs and devices. This will help keep medical innovation and job creation from going overseas, which jeopardizes American patients' access to the most cutting-edge medical therapies and advances. "America's patients want access to the latest, most effective life-saving treatments. This bill will ensure that Congress and the American people hold the FDA accountable for meeting its performance goals so that cutting-edge medical therapies approved by the FDA reach patients as quickly as possible," Senator Burr said. "Government red-tape at the FDA is stifling scientific investment and innovation, which is a disservice to North Carolina's medical innovators and even worse can delay patients' access to medical therapies. Our bill will help identify areas where the FDA needs to do better." "Last month, GAO gave us a report confirming what we already suspected: the FDA is taking longer and longer to make final decisions on life-saving medical devices and not meeting vital performance standards due to a complete lack of congressional oversight. When a government agency consistently shows signs of failing to meet its public mission and is failing to help some of the very people it was intended to protect, there is no one else to blame but Washington. Instead of harming life-saving innovation, the PATIENTS' FDA Act ensures a rigorous, careful, transparent, and accountable system, and more importantly, gives patients the access to care that they deserve," Senator Coburn said. The PATIENTS' FDA Act will enable Congress to fulfill its duty to the American people by ensuring that the FDA is promoting the public health through its review and regulation of medical products. The FDA's work on behalf of patients is supported not only by user fees, but also by taxpayer dollars. Thus, Congress has a critical oversight role in ensuring the FDA is meeting its requirements under the law. User fees and performance goal agreements are negotiated between the device and drug industries and the FDA, but Congress has a responsibility to determine whether or not the FDA is meeting not only its negotiated performance goals, but the metrics necessary to ensure that the FDA is acting in the best interest of patients and taxpayers. Thus, the PATIENTS' FDA Act is designed to complement the proposed agreements negotiated between the FDA and the drug and device industries by ensuring appropriate transparency and accountability in the FDA's review and decision processes. Read a full section-by-section summary of the bill here.
04.17.2012	04.17.12 Tax Day Statement Senator Richard Burr released the below statement on tax day on his Facebook page this morning.http://www.facebook.com/SenatorRichardBurr "Each year, tax day serves as a harsh reminder of our broken tax code and the punitive nature of our tax system. The process of filing taxes is overly complicated, and the tax code as a whole is unpredictable and uncertain, making it extremely difficult for families and businesses to budget for the years ahead. In order to encourage economic prosperity and spur job creation, we must simplify the tax code so that all individuals and all businesses play by the same rules and have a clear idea what their tax burden will look like down the road. "Political gimmicks such as the Buffett Tax will do little to reduce our national debt or put Americans back to work, but they will place additional burdens on job creators and further complicate our tax code. Instead of raising taxes on investors who help create jobs, we must focus our efforts on overhauling the tax code to make it easier for entrepreneurs to take risks, businesses to grow and create jobs, and families to invest in their future."
04.10.2012	04.10.12 Senator Burr Announces Events for April 11-12 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Avery, Mitchell, Buncombe, Haywood, and Henderson counties between April 11 - 12, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing press@burr.senate.gov. Wednesday, April 11 Speak to students at Avery County High School 11:30 AM Avery County High School 401 High School Rd Newland, NC 28657 Senator Burr to tour Unimin Red Hill IOTA 1:30 PM 2241 Highway 197 Bakersville, NC 28705 Senator Burr to meet with RESULTS and ONE volunteers 4:00 PM Senator Burr's Asheville Office 151 Patton Ave., Suite 204 Asheville, NC 28801 Thursday, April 12 Senator Burr to tour Thermo Fisher Scientific 8:30 AM Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 275 Aiken Road Asheville, NC 28804 Senator Burr to visit Waterrock Knob Property in Maggie Valley 11:00 AM 45 Water Plant Road Maggie Valley, NC 28751 Senator Burr to tour Van Wingerden Greenhouse Company 1:00 PM 4112 Haywood Rd Mills River, NC 28759
03.29.2012	03.29.12 Burr Introduces “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Legislation Legislation to honor service members who fought in Vietnam WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced a bill encouraging the President to designate March 29 as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" honoring the return home of our armed service members after serving in Vietnam. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) is a lead co-sponsor of the legislation. "American troops served bravely and faithfully during the Vietnam War, and these veterans deserve our recognition and gratitude they earned," Senator Burr said. "Unfortunately, when these service members returned home, they were caught in the crossfire of public debate about our nation's involvement in the Vietnam War, and many never received the reception and recognition they deserved." "Each and every American service member who sacrifices for our country deserves to be welcomed home by a grateful nation," Senator Boxer said. "Establishing a national day of recognition for veterans of the Vietnam War will honor their service and show the deep gratitude our nation feels for these brave men and women." The United States' involvement in Vietnam stemmed from concerns that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia. American forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam. After many years of combat, all US troops were withdrawn from Vietnam on March 29, 1973, under the terms of the Treaty of Paris. More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam. The establishment of a "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" would serve as a small way to honor these men and women who served our country in Vietnam throughout the war.
03.29.2012	03.29.12 Senators Burr and Coburn Issue Joint Statement on GAO Oversight Report Washington, D.C. - Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Tom Coburn (R-OK) released the following statement on the GAO oversight report (GAO-12-418) released today. Senator Burr presented this report to fellow members of the Senate HELP Committee at a hearing this morning. "The GAO oversight report released today confirms a disturbing trend: the FDA is taking longer and longer to make final decisions on life-saving medical devices. GAO also confirms the FDA is not meeting some of its performance goals. Patients and taxpayers care about how long it takes for safe and effective life-saving products to reach them. Unfortunately, the GAO report highlights that red-tape at the FDA is making it more difficult for life-improving devices to reach patients as quickly as possible. This report makes clear that reporting only on the user fee performance goals negotiated by industry and the FDA does not paint a full picture of FDA's performance. GAO's report shows that FDA's final decisions on devices are taking longer due to more review cycles and requests for additional information. Patients rely upon FDA to make sound medical decisions in as timely a manner as possible. Increasing regulatory uncertainty and unnecessary delays are stifling investments in the development of life-saving medical products. If Congress fails to ensure consistent oversight and transparency at FDA, we risk continuing to drive medical innovation and job creation overseas and jeopardizing American patients' access to the most cutting-edge medical therapies and advances."
03.29.2012	03.29.12 Burr Resolution Introduces Children to Employment Opportunities WASHINGTON, D.C. - Last night, a resolution introduced by U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) titled Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day, legislation designed to create inspiring educational experiences for America's children, passed the Senate. This resolution designates April 26, 2012 as Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day. Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX),Mary Landrieu (D-LA), and Kay Hagan(D-NC) are original cosponsors of the resolution. "America is in the midst of a dropout crisis, and Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day will help expose our children to the opportunities that are available to them after they complete their education," Senator Burr said. "This program shows our sons and daughters what they are working towards so they know the value and sense of purpose that come with an education and career goals." Headquartered in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Foundation is one of the largest public awareness campaigns in America with over 37,000,000 participants annually in over 3,000,000 workplaces in every state in the country.
03.26.2012	03.26.12 Bennet, Hatch and Burr Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Bring Breakthrough Treatments to Patients More Quickly Bill Would Expedite FDA Approval and Increase Clinical Trial Flexibility of Drugs and Treatments That Show Dramatic Early Responses Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced a bipartisan bill to help bring breakthrough drugs and treatments to patients who need them more quickly. The Advancing Breakthrough Therapies for Patients Act would expedite U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval and provide more flexibility when a drug or treatment shows dramatic responses early in development, while still ensuring drug safety and efficacy. For patients, this proposal would allow FDA the ability to move towards more innovative clinical trials, such as minimizing the number of patients enrolled in trials and shortening the duration of trials, when scientifically appropriate. "We're seeing major breakthroughs in drugs and other treatments for debilitating and terminal diseases, but we're not always getting them to patients though the most efficient and safe pathways," Bennet said. "I have heard from countless Coloradans that the FDA needs to modernize its regulatory science to keep up with 21st century science and technology. Our bill provides the flexibility in approval mechanisms so home-run treatments that show great promise early on reach patients more quickly. It also strikes a careful balance between providing regulatory certainty for developers of these breakthrough treatments and maintaining the level of drug safety and efficacy patients expect and deserve." "This common sense legislation ensures that patients across the country can receive breakthrough treatments faster and more efficiently than ever before," Hatch said. "Time and again we've seen regulators in Washington fail to keep up with the industries they are tasked to oversee. This bipartisan bill ensures that when it comes to treating patients suffering with cancer or other devastating illnesses, science and patient care will not be slowed down by government red tape." "As our understanding of diseases and conditions has advanced, targeted cutting-edge medical therapies are increasingly being developed," Senator Burr said. "We owe it to patients to provide a clear pathway for expediting the development and review of breakthrough therapies so promising innovation can reach patients as soon as possible. Clarifying the regulatory pathway for breakthrough therapies for innovators and the FDA will help fulfill the potential of these therapies for America's patients, while spurring future generations of life-saving treatments." The Advancing Breakthrough Therapies for Patients Act is supported by several organizations, including Friends of Cancer Research, a cancer research think tank and advocacy organization, and the National Venture Capital Association (NVCA), the preeminent trade association for venture capitalists. "Friends of Cancer Research applauds Senators Bennet, Hatch and Burr for this bipartisan legislation focused on strengthening FDA's ability to get new treatments to patients suffering from diseases like cancer," said Dr. Jeff Allen, Executive Director of Friends of Cancer Research. "With the passage of this bill, and the establishment of a Breakthrough Therapy Designation, FDA will be able to more actively keep pace with scientific progress, and more quickly engage with developers, ensuring that the most promising new therapies are reaching patients as safely and efficiently as possible." "NVCA's members invest in and help develop life-saving treatments for some of our most devastating diseases. But too often the time, cost and uncertainty of meeting regulatory requirements prevent venture capitalists from investing in promising new therapies," said Jonathan Leff, member of the NVCA's Board of Directors and Managing Director of the healthcare investing practice at Warburg Pincus. "This bill encourages regulators and drug developers to work together to break bottlenecks in drug development and shorten the path to market, which will help unlock investment and deliver breakthrough treatments to the patients who need them most." This bill amends the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require FDA to facilitate the development and expedite the review of breakthrough drugs. Breakthrough drugs are drugs intended for a serious or life-threatening disease or condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that they may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies. If the FDA determines that a drug meets the criteria to be designated as a "breakthrough therapy" then the agency shall take such actions as are appropriate to expedite the development and evaluation of the drug, including establishing an interactive development process; providing timely advice to the sponsor regarding the plan to develop the drug; enlisting a collaborative, cross-disciplinary approach by senior managers and experienced review staff; and minimizing the number of patients enrolled in and shortening the duration of a clinical trial. A breakthrough therapy may still seek fast-track product designation, accelerated approval, or priority review.
03.23.2012	03.23.12 Senator Burr Announces Event for March 24, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) announced the following event for March 24, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing David Ward at david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Saturday, March 24 Senator Burr to attend Military Officers Association State Council Meeting 10:30 AM Wingate Hotel 125 South Main Street Winston-Salem, NC
03.20.2012	03.20.12 Senator Burr Introduces Bill to Protect Educational and Economic Impact of Historic Estates WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced a bill that would amend current estate tax laws to protect historic landmarks and property from punitive taxes so that the public may continue to be enriched from the educational and historic benefits they provide. Currently, when the owner of a privately-held historic estate passes away, the owner's family is often forced to sell the property in order to pay for the tax that is applied to it. This bill would require that estate taxes on the property be based on an ongoing business valuation rather than an asset valuation of the property. The goals of this legislation are to keep as many of these properties as possible in private ownership and allow them to continue to attract historic and educational tourism, which has a positive economic impact on the surrounding community, as well as preserve the historical value of the property. "Current estate tax laws are unfairly punitive and can have a devastating impact on families. Even more, when this tax burden falls on properties that provide an economic benefit for the larger region, the effects can be felt by the entire community," Senator Burr said. "We are a young nation, and we must preserve our National Historic Landmarks both for the benefit of Americans today as well as for future generations to enjoy and use as educational tools. It is my hope that this bill will result in historic properties being preserved for future public use and benefit rather than being sold to pay the exorbitant taxes on them." To meet the requirements to qualify under this bill, properties must have been on the register of National Historic Landmarks for at least 25 years, and they must have formerly been a family farm or private residence. Additionally, a commitment must be made to continue operating them for public visitation for at least 25 years after the death of the owner. In North Carolina, the Biltmore Estate is a good example of the kind of property that would be negatively affected by current estate tax laws. In 2004 alone, over 868,000 people visited the Biltmore Estate, and these visitors contributed $260.5 million to the local economy in Asheville and the surrounding counties. These properties also stimulate the local economy through their employment of local individuals. In 2004, the Biltmore Corporation, for example, employed 1,040 people with a total economic impact stemming from payroll of over $49 million. There are close to 200 other properties nationwide, as well as their communities and their visitors, that could benefit from this legislation. Original cosponsors of this legislation are Senators Kay Hagan (D-NC), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Thad Cochran (R-MS).
03.15.2012	03.15.12 Burr Announces Events for March 17-19, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to High Point and Roxboro, NC on March 17 - 19, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616 or by emailing David Ward at david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Saturday, March 17 West Point Society Dinner 6:00 PM High Point Country Club. 800 Country Club Drive High Point, NC Monday, March 19 Present Bronze Star Medal to Douglas E. Kibbey 10:30 AM Piedmont Community College Library 1715 College Drive Roxboro, NC
03.12.2012	03.12.12 Senator Burr Announces Travelling Photography Exhibit in Conjunction with Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration On March 31, veterans of the Vietnam War will receive the recognition they deserved decades ago at the Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Celebration at Charlotte Motor Speedway, an event put on by the North Carolina Association of Broadcasters, the USO, and Charlotte Motor Speedway. In conjunction with this event, there will be mobile exhibits traveling across the state featuring photographer David Kennerly's Pulitzer prize-winning portfolio of combat photos from Vietnam. David Kennerly has been shooting on the front lines of history for more than 45 years and has photographed more than 8 wars. At 25, he won the 1972 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography for his work that included photos of the Vietnam, Cambodia, and India-Pakistan Wars, and the Ali-Frazier fight in Madison Square Garden. "I think that is the role of the photographer to shed a little light into corners of the world you wouldn't see otherwise," said Kennerly. "It certainly is a tribute to the fighting men and women. And I think a lot of the pictures, not mine necessarily, but other photographers in the Vietnam War for instance really depicted the courage and valor of the American soldiers who were fighting the war. That is really important for back then and for future generations." "I hope that North Carolina veterans, their families, friends, and neighbors will join us in honoring these brave men and women in Charlotte on March 31, but this traveling photography exhibit is another great way to remember those who served in Vietnam," Senator Burr said. "For those who cannot make it to the celebration in Charlotte, this exhibit represents an opportunity to connect with other veterans in our own communities and honor the sacrifices our servicemen and women made in that conflict." Below is a schedule of appearances for the exhibit: 3/8-3/16 Durham VA Medical Center 508 Fulton Street Durham, NC 27705 (919) 286-0411 3/17 Shelton's Harley-Davidson, Inc. 300 Muldee Street Durham, NC 27703 (919) 596-9511 3/12-3/18 Piedmont Triad International Airport Terminal 6415 Bryan Boulevard Greensboro, NC 27409 (336) 665-5600 3/12-3/19 Charlotte Veterans Center 2114 Ben Craig Dr., Suite 300 Charlotte, NC 28262 (704) 549-8025 3/19-3/23 North Carolina State Legislative Building 16 W. Jones St. Raleigh, NC 27601 (919) 733-4111 3/19-3/25 Richard's Coffee Shop, Mooresville 128 South Main Street Mooresville, NC 28115 (704) 663-0488 3/19-3/30 Founders Hall Charlotte 100 North Tryon Street Charlotte, NC 28202 (704) 716-8649
03.08.2012	03.08.12 Senator Richard Burr’s Statement on ATSDR’s decision to redact public information from Camp Lejeune water contamination reports On January 27, 2012, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) sent a letter to Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, regarding the legal basis for removing certain information from the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry's (ATSDR) scientific report on water contamination at Camp Lejeune. Senators Hagan (R-NC), Nelson (D-FL) and Rubio (R-FL) as well as Representatives Miller (D-NC) and Dingell (D-MI) joined him in signing the letter. The letter expressed concerns about the United States Marine Corps' (USMC) request that the ATSDR redact locations of Camp Lejeune's active installation water system infrastructure due to national security concerns. This information has been publically available for several years, and it is unclear why it suddenly became a security threat and had to be removed from the report released by the ATSDR on January 19, 2012. Removing this information may hamper ongoing and future studies regarding the Marines, Sailors, and their families who lived at Camp Lejeune and were exposed to Benzene, TCE and other dangerous chemicals in their tap water. Dr. Frieden responded to the letter on February 15, 2012 and stated that he had decided to comply with the USMC's request to redact the locations. Senator Burr sent a letter to Dr. Frieden yesterday questioning his decision. Today, he released the following statement on his Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/SenatorRichardBurr "Dr. Frieden's decision to comply with the U. S. Marine Corps' recent request to redact information from the ATSDR's studies on Camp Lejeune that remains publically available in other sources and has been so for many years is extremely troubling. This decision to remove critical scientific information raises concerns about the transparency, integrity and merit of the ATSDR's report and its findings, which will be released this year. "When I met with Dr. Frieden to discuss the studies in 2010, I told him that I would do everything in my power to ensure that ATSDR would be able to conduct and complete its studies unimpeded by the Department of Navy. "Since I am concerned that these redactions may jeopardize the integrity of the studies, I have taken a cautionary step and requested that the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services examine ATSDR's activities in this matter. "In addition, the Senate Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing this month to examine the process the government uses to determine to what extent public information can be withheld from the public for national security concerns. Withholding information from scientific studies for reasons of national security without adequate legal justification sets a dangerous precedent. In this case, it could make it more difficult for ATSDR to deny current and future requests from the Department of Defense (DoD) and could lead to the removal of more information from its reports on Camp Lejeune that the public has an inherent right to know. "We owe it to the Marines, Sailors, and the entire Camp Lejeune community who were exposed to harmful chemicals without their knowledge to continue a transparent investigation of how they were affected to spur greater health awareness and provide them with the answers and care they deserve." You may read the full text of the letter here: http://burr.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/BurrFriedenLtr.pdf
03.08.2012	03.08.12 Senator Burr Applauds Senate Passage of His Bill to Better Prepare Nation for the Threat of Pandemics or Bioterror Attacks WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act Reauthorization of 2011 (PAHPA) out of the United States Senate. "The American people must be protected if an attack occurs, and I am proud that the Senate has taken the critical step of strengthening our ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies by reauthorizing the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act," Senator Burr said. "I am hopeful that we will send this important legislation to reauthorize PAHPA to the President quickly so that he may sign it into law. We have come a long way in improving our nation's ability to respond to a bioterror attack or public health emergency since Congress passed the original PAHPA law in 2006, but the 2009 H1N1 pandemic underscored the reality that more remains to be done. I am pleased that this bill will strengthen our existing medical and public health preparedness and response programs based on the lessons we have learned in recent years, including ensuring that the FDA has the tools it needs to advance the medical countermeasures necessary to respond to modern day threats." This important bipartisan legislation was introduced by Senators Burr (R-NC), Harkin (D-IA), Enzi (R-WY), and Casey (D-PA) to strengthen and enhance our nation's ability to prepare for and respond to all-hazards that may confront us, whether naturally occurring, like an influenza pandemic, or a deliberate bioterrorism attack. You can read more about it in this press release.
03.02.2012	03.02.12 Burr Announces Event for March 4, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Fayetteville on Sunday, March 4, 2012. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Sunday, March 4 Senator Burr to speak at FORSCOM Official Welcoming Reception 6:30 PM Airborne Special Operations Museum 100 Bragg Blvd. Fayetteville, NC
03.01.2012	03.01.12 Senators Introduce Legislation to Strengthen Cybersecurity Proposal strengthens information sharing and encourages private sector innovation Washington, DC - U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Dan Coats (R-IN), Ron Johnson (R-WI), and Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced the Strengthening and Enhancing Cybersecurity by Using Research, Education, Information, and Technology Act (SECURE IT), their proposal to protect and secure our nation against cybersecurity attacks. "The SECURE IT Act strengthens America's cybersecurity by promoting collaboration and information-sharing, updating our criminal laws to account for the growing cyber threat and enhancing research programs to protect our critical networks," said Senator John McCain. "This legislation will help us begin to meet the very real threat of cyber attack." "We are all in agreement that we need to make our nation's cybersecurity a top priority. I believe we have come up with a strong common sense approach that will help prevent the spread of cyberattacks from network to network and across the Internet, by removing barriers to sharing information about threats, attacks, and strategies for improvement," Senator Hutchison said. "Our bill focuses on giving businesses the tools they need to protect themselves from the looming threat of cyber criminals, and increased requirements for notification of threats to federal agencies." "As our nation faces increasing cyber attacks in a critical economic environment, we must ensure that the private sector has the authority it needs to defend its own networks and share cyber threat information to prevent future attacks," Senator Chambliss said. "Now is not the time for Congress to be adding more government, more regulation, and more debt - especially when it is far from clear that any of it will enhance our security. Our bill offers the right solution to improving our nation's cybersecurity by encouraging collaboration, investment, and innovation." "Our bill represents a new way forward in protecting the American people and the country's cyber infrastructure from attack. It's a bill that can be supported by all partners that have an interest in cybersecurity. Instead of the heavy hand of the government, our approach promotes information sharing and keeps the taxpayers' wallets close," said Senator Grassley. "Rather than arming Homeland Security with expansive new regulatory authority over every sector of our economy, the SECURE IT cyber bill we've introduced today emphasizes a partnership approach between the government and private entities. By focusing on those areas like information sharing where bipartisan agreement is achievable, we can tackle the cyber issue in a meaningful and constructive way," said Sen. Murkowski. "After September 11, we broke down the barriers to information sharing and provided our intelligence and law enforcement professionals with the tools they need to keep us safe. Today, we must break down similar barriers that exist in cyber security to respond to the increasing number of attacks against private companies and the federal government," said Senator Coats. "The SECURE IT Act will enable robust information sharing without creating costly layers of government bureaucracy or imposing new regulatory burdens on American businesses." "This bill recognizes that industry is at the center of any solution. It's a sensible step forward that allows industry to invest in innovation and job creation rather than compliance. Imposing a costly and bureaucratic regulatory regime is the wrong approach to national security. New regulations will slow down innovation and investment while companies wait years for the government to introduce outdated standards," said Sen. Johnson. "The regulatory process simply cannot keep up with the rapid pace of technology." "Cyber security is essential to our national security, and this bill takes a step in the right direction to ensure that our nation has the proper defenses in place to address threats to our nation's systems and infrastructure. This bill takes fiscally responsible measures to protect against cyber threats by enhancing research and development, updating enforcement tools and penalties to reflect current threats, and promoting voluntary information sharing between the public and private sector without creating unnecessary bureaucracy or regulations," said Senator Burr. Co-sponsors of the proposal are U.S. Sens. John McCain, Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Kay Bailey Hutchison, Ranking Member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, Chuck Grassley, Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Saxby Chambliss, Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Lisa Murkowski, Ranking Member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Dan Coats, Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and Ron Johnson, Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia, and Richard Burr, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. The SECURE IT Act will: •Improve cybersecurity by collaborating with industry and eliminating barriers to enhanced information sharing. •Create expedited information sharing for private sector using existing structures and reporting relationships. •Require federal contractors who provide telecommunications or cybersecurity services for the federal government to report to the government cyber threat information related to those services. •Strengthen criminal statutes for cyber crimes. •Update the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and preserve the roles of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the Department of Commerce in disseminating security standards for the federal government. •Leverage and strengthen existing programs in cybersecurity research and development.
03.01.2012	03.01.12 Burr Announces Military Academy Nominations WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr announced his nomination of sixty-nine North Carolinians to serve at one of our nation's military academies. The nominees were selected after an application and interview process conducted by Senator Burr's Academy Selection Committee, which is comprised of military academy graduates, veterans, and community leaders from across the state. The nominees, their hometown, high school and parents' names are listed below the academy to which they have been nominated. United States Military Academy at West Point Mr. James T. Trollan Vince and Susan Trollan Hickory High School Hickory, North Carolina Mr. Peter L. Kenna Thomas and Nancy Kenna Cary Academy Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Jeremiah J. Kim Junghwa and Kwanghoon Kim Needham Broughton High School Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Blake M. Harwood Michael and Kathleen Harwood Cary Christian School Apex, North Carolina Mr. John D. Baranik Daniel and Betsy Baranik Western Alamance High School Gibsonville, NorthCarolina Mr. David J. Weidman Tom and Michelle Weidman Marvin Ridge High School Waxhaw, North Carolina Mr. Nicholas B. Taylor Walker Taylor, IV and Amy Taylor New Hanover High School Wilmington, North Carolina Mr. Tyler G. Elrod Ronald P. and Kittie Elrod Village Christian Academy Fort Bragg, North Carolina Mr. Brandon C. Grieves Chad and Debbie Grieves Culver Military Academy Cary, North Carolina Mr. Michael B. Brennan LTC John W. Brennan and Sandra C. Brennan Union Pines High School Vass, North Carolina Mr. Cole T. Conklin George and Lisa Conklin Southeast Guilford High School Whitsett, North Carolina Mr. Nathaniel R. Thomas Brad and Debbie Thomas Asheboro High School Asheboro, North Carolina Mr. Addison S. McLamb Scott and Lauren Mclamb Tri-Mac Academy Lexington, North Carolina Mr. Josiah A. Jeffers Joseph and Amy Jeffers Ronald Reagan High School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Mr. Peter Jeong Chungmun and Jooyun Jeong Eastern Alamance High School Mebane, North Carolina Ms. Caitlin Curley Phil and Shannon Curley Wilkes Central High School North Wilkesboro, North Carolina Mr. Bohdan I. Volyanyuk Ihor and Olena Volyanuk William G. Enloe High School Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Matthew R. McCormack James and Holly McCormack Freedom High School Morganton, North Carolina Mr. John B. Hebert LTC Peter J. Herbert and Margret M. Herbert St. Michael's Preparatory School Fayetteville, North Carolina Mr. Steven A. Buccini Bob and Mary Buccini Grimsley High School Greensboro, North Carolina United States Air Force Academy Mr. Matthew D. Kellum Scott and Jolanta Kellum Ronald Regan High School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Ms. Katelynn Pace LTC Robert C. Castelli and MSgt (Ret) Sharon C. Castelli Pinecrest High School Southern Pines, North Carolina Mr. Mark M. Pietryka Paul J. and Samina V. Pietryka Cardinal Gibbons High School Cary, North Carolina Mr. William H. Cofield William and Kristine Cofield East Lincoln High School Denver, North Carolina Mr. Landon J. Morrison Tim and Cindy Morrison West Stanly High School Midland, North Carolina Mr. Thomas J. Oweida Sami J. and Lynne S. Oweida Myers Park High School Charlotte, North Carolina Mr. Maris M. Riley II Maris M. Riley, Sr. and Elizabeth K. Riley Union Pines High School Carthage, North Carolina Mr. Chase W. Sax Ernest and Tracy Sax Apex High School Cary, North Carolina Mr. Aaron J. Teran Joshua and Susan Teran William G. Enloe High School Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Martin A. York Allen R. York and Dora D. York Leesville Road High School Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Daniel J. Brown Steve and Jill Brown Lake Norman High School Mooresville, North Carolina Mr. Austin T. Rohrer Michael and Cynthia Rohner Concord High School Concord, North Carolina Mr. Elijah D. Jesalva Renato and Noemi Jesalva Queens Grant High School Matthews, North Carolina Mr. Ryan P. DeOre Jeffrey and Mary DeOre Pine Lake Preparatory Huntersville, North Carolina Mr. Joshua P. Harold Timothy and Tamatha Harold Parkland High School Waxhaw, North Carolina Ms. Ryann E. Anderson David and Vivienne Andeson Charlotte Catholic High School Waxhaw, North Carolina Mr. Robert H. Daniel, III David and Elizabeth Daniel Woodberry Forest School Wilson, North Carolina Mr. Joseph L. Houston James B. and Maureen A. Houston A.C. Reynolds High School Asheville, North Carolina Mr. Robert W. Webber, II Robert and Amanda Webber Northside High School Jacksonville, North Carolina Mr. Scott M. Bren Melinda Bren Espinoza Swansboro High School Hubert, North Carolina United States Naval Academy Mr. Robert W. Pierce Jim and Virginia Pierce Cape Fear Academy Wilmington, North Carolina Ms. Meredith J. Allen Charles Lee Allen Jr. and Mary Burt Allen Gray Stone Day School Albemarle, North Carolina Mr. Jude H. Ampolini Fred and Ann Elizabeth Ampolini R.J. Reynolds High School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Mr. Neil W. Blake IV Neil W. Blake, III and Rhonda M. Blake Coastal Christian High School Wilmington,North Carolina Mr. Tanner H. Gresham Scott and Stephanie Gresham South Stanley High School Albemarle, North Carolina Mr. Taylor D. Huneycutt Diane Huneycutt Apex High School Apex, North Carolina Mr. Ryan A. Beale Mark and Nancy Beale Cardinal Gibbons High School Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Orris T. Sloan, IV Temple Sloan III and Joan Sloan United State s Naval Academy Prep School/ Ravenscroft School Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Maximiliano L. Salcedo Katherine Norton and Fernando Salcedo East Chapel Hill High School Chapel Hill, North Carolina Mr. Kevin T. Reinemund Steve and Gail Reinemund Forsyth Country Day School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Mr. Tyler M. Burke Martin and Kellie Burke Apex High School Apex, North Carolina Ms. Kathryn R. Porter Edwin and Kathryn Porter Providence High School Matthews, North Carolina Ms. Marisa A. Ludolf David and Annette Ludolf West Forsyth High School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Mr. Marshall B. Kirksey West Forsyth High School Morganton, North Carolina Mr. Grayson C. Fulp Debbie and Clyde Fulp Forbush High School East Bend, North Carolina Mr. Rayce L. Walker Greg and Lois Walker Hendersonville High School Hendersonville, North Carolina Mr. George Bancroft, IV George Bancroft III and Rebecca Bancroft Jupiter Christian High School Wilson, North Carolina Mr. Samuel T. Hopkins Nelson and Vickey Hopkins West Carteret High School Morehead City, North Carolina Mr. Thomas M. Hetzel James and Whitney Hetzel Weddington Classical Academy Weddington, North Carolina Mr. Spencer L. Clark Clay and Dana Clark Durham School of the Arts Durham, North Carolina United States Merchant Marine Academy Mr. Prescott T. Hocutt Cary and Kim Hocutt Concord High School/ Valley Forge Military College R. Stephen and Ruth Camp Concord, North Carolina William R. Camp Mr. R. Stephen and Ruth Camp Randolph-Macon Academy Raleigh, North Carolina Mr. Mark J. Bonville Kenneth and Susan Bonville The O'Neal School Pinehurst, North Carolina Mr. Payton W. Ball Jon and Jennifer Ball Topsail High School Hampstead, North Carolina Mr. Lawrence E. Guiler Gerard and Elizabeth Guiler Ardrey Kell High School Charlotte, North Carolina Mr. Lorenzo Hernandez Miguel and Paula Hernandez Providence Day School Charlotte, North Carolina Mr. Edward H. Kirby Edward and Diane Kirby A.C. Reynolds High School/ Asheville Buncombe Community College Fairview, North Carolina Mr. Andrew L. Londo Darold and Anne Londo Smoky Mountain High School Sylva, North Carolina Ms. Madeline R. Sullivan Emmett and Jennifer Sullivan South Mecklenburg High School Charlotte, North Carolina
02.29.2012	02.29.12 Senator Burr Honored by Association of American Museums WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Monday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) was honored by the Association of American Museums (AAM) for his support of our nation's museums, aquariums and other historical sites and his recognition of the integral role they play in education, job creation, tourism, and environmental and historical conservation. Senator Burr was an original co-sponsor of the Museum and Library Services Act of 2010. His dedicated efforts to champion this bill yielded the reauthorization of the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS), the federal advocate for museums and libraries that encourages the President and Congress to promote policies that increase public access to information and ideas. "I am honored to receive this award from the Association of American Museums, and I thank them for the important work they do," Senator Burr said. "Museums, aquariums and historical sites are economic and educational engines for local communities and we owe it to all Americans to protect these vital resources and ensure they are around for future generations as well." Kimerly Rorschach, director of the Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University, attended the Museums Advocacy Day reception to present the award to Senator Burr. Senator Daniel Inouye and Congressmen Aaron Schock and Xavier Becerra were also honored by the AAM.
02.24.2012	02.24.12 Entire North Carolina Delegation Reminds Veterans and Community of Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration at Charlotte Motor Speedway WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the entire delegation of North Carolina's representatives in the United States Congress encouraged all Vietnam veterans, their families and friends, and all North Carolinians to reserve their free tickets to the "Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration," an event to honor veterans of the Vietnam War taking place at Charlotte Motor Speedway and hosted by the USO and the North Carolina Association of Broadcasters, along with Charlotte Motor Speedway. Senators Richard Burr and Kay Hagan and Congressmen G. K. Butterfield, Howard Coble, Rene Ellmers, Virginia Foxx, Walter Jones, Larry Kissell, Patrick McHenry, Mike McIntyre, Brad Miller, Sue Myrick, David Price, Heath Shuler, and Mel Watt joined together to support this important, long-overdue event honoring the brave Americans who served and sacrificed in the Vietnam War and never received the recognition and gratitude they deserved upon returning home. Information on the event and quotes from members of the delegation can be found below. WHAT: Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration 2012 WHEN: March 31, 2012 (Gates open at 9am, opening ceremonies begin at 11am) WHERE: Charlotte Motor Speedway ENTERTAINMENT: The Charlie Daniels Band (Headline), George Clinton, Rockie Lynne, The 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing Band, The 82nd Airborne Division "All-American" Chorus, Master of Ceremonies - Chris Noel MILITARY EXHIBITS, DISPLAYS & DEMONSTRATIONS: U.S. Army Golden Knights parachute demonstration, U.S. Air Force Flyover, Flag Story from U.S. Army Color Guard and Flag Troops, Various military static displays from supporting NC military units and recruiters RESERVE FREE TICKETS: For more information and to reserve free tickets, visit www.CharlotteMotorSpeedway.com/WelcomeHome. Senator Richard Burr - "On March 31, our nation's Vietnam veterans will gather in Charlotte for the inaugural Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration. This grand tribute applauding the courageous efforts of our Vietnam veterans and acknowledging the tremendous sacrifices they made to defend the freedoms we hold so dear is long overdue. We owe it to our Vietnam veterans to thank them for their dedication, commemorate their service, and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice. I am proud that the inaugural tribute will take place in North Carolina, and hope that this celebration will be the first of many in the years to come." Senator Kay Hagan - "I am proud to pay tribute to the brave men and women who served in Vietnam. More than 58,000 troops never returned from Vietnam and those who came back did not receive the recognition they so deserved. My husband is a Vietnam veteran, and I'm aware of the trials that many of these men and women and their families endured on their return to the States. We all owe them a huge debt of gratitude and I'm so proud that the inaugural "Vietnam Veterans Homecoming Celebration" is taking place in Charlotte to honor these heroes." Rep. G. K. Butterfield - "As we celebrate Vietnam Veterans on this great occasion, let us not forget some 1,600 North Carolinians who lost their lives in battle. This Homecoming gives us the chance to appropriately recognize all who bravely served." Rep. Howard Coble - "I am thrilled that North Carolina will be the site of a celebration that is long overdue and much appreciated. It is well past the time that we honor those who served our nation so admirably in Vietnam. I hope many veterans will attend so we can properly honor their service to our country." Rep. Renee Ellmers - "From the bottom of my heart, I would like to thank our Vietnam Veterans and the brave men and women of our armed forces for their noble sacrifice in the defense of liberty and freedom abroad. Few can comprehend the challenges they have faced, but we all can share in their noble calling as heroes and protectors." Rep. Virginia Foxx - "It is always right to show honor and respect to those who have served in our nation's military. The Vietnam Homecoming Celebration is a great occasion to pause and remember those who served, and be thankful for their commitment to our country." Rep. Walter Jones - "We are so proud to honor those who so bravely served our nation during the Vietnam War. This celebration is long overdue and a great opportunity to remember those we lost and those who sacrificed so much for our country." Rep. Larry Kissell - "North Carolina is home to so many folks who served in Vietnam. It is so fitting that we would have this long overdue recognition here. I'm so proud it is taking place in my district at the Charlotte Motor Speedway." Rep. Patrick McHenry - "The Vietnam Veterans Homecoming promises to be a great event for our service members and their families. Our veterans deserve the best care available and this event helps deliver on that promise, with excellent entertainment thrown in to thank them for their sacrifice. There's no better place to hold an event like this than North Carolina and Charlotte Motor Speedway." Rep. Mike McIntyre - "This Vietnam Veterans Homecoming is a chance to remember and respect the courage and character of those who served bravely in Vietnam. Let us never forget those that sacrificed so that we all may live free. God bless this special day and the men and women who served us all." Rep. Brad Miller - "This Homecoming is a chance to pause and remember the noble service and high sacrifices of those who have worn our nation's uniform. It is a day of remembrance, rededication and a reminder that our nation should avoid the mistake of a generation ago by confusing politics with military service." Rep. Sue Myrick - "I'm grateful to the people who have worked so hard to honor our veterans and their families through this long overdue homecoming celebration. While we can never repay the debt of the sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform, this is a way of saying thank you to the Vietnam Veterans both in our state and across the country." # # #
02.17.2012	02.17.12 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Events for February 20-24 Monday, February 20 Senator Burr to attend Medal Presentation Ceremony for Rodney Cress Event Center 10:30 AM 315 Webb Road Salisbury, NC Tuesday, February 21 Senator Burr to attend Wake Forest Biotech Place Ribbon Cutting 10:00 AM Piedmont Triad Research Park 575 N. Patterson Avenue Winston-Salem, NC Senator Burr to visit Harvest Family Health Care Center 2:30 PM 8282 S NC Highway 58 Elm City, NC Senator Burr meeting with Rocky Mount Area Chamber of Commerce 3:45 PM 100 Coast Line Street Rocky Mount, NC Senator Burr to speak at Chowan County Farm Bureau Dinner 6:00 PM Chowan County Farm Bureau Office 524 Virginia Road Edenton, NC Wednesday, February 22 Senator Burr to attend Beaufort County's 300th Anniversary Celebration 9:30 AM Washington High School 400 Slatestone Road Washington, NC 27889 Senator Burr to visit and tour Metrics, Inc. 11:30 AM 1240 Sugg Parkway Greenville, NC 27834 Thursday, February 23 Senator Burr to visit the Shaw Group 11:00 AM 128 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, NC 28202 Senator Burr to attend Teach for America Event 1:00 PM West Charlotte High School 2219 Senior Drive Charlotte, NC 28216 Senator Burr to attend Moore & Vann Allen Conference 4:00 PM UNC Charlotte Center City Building 320 E. 9th Street Charlotte, NC Friday, February 24 Senator Burr to visit High Point University 9:30 AM 833 Montlieu Avenue High Point, NC 27262 Senator Burr to attend Naturalization Ceremony 2:00 PM L. Richardson Preyer Federal Courthouse 324 West Market Street. Greensboro, NC
02.17.2012	02.17.12 Senator Burr Statement on Payroll Tax Holiday Extension WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement on his vote against extending the payroll tax holiday: "I voted against extending the payroll tax holiday for the simple reason that it is not paid for. We cannot continue taking money out of the Social Security trust fund and replacing it with IOUs for future generations to pay off."
02.16.2012	02.16.12 Senators Burr and Coburn Introduce Proposal to Save Medicare Seniors’ Choice Act will provide choice and sustainability for America’s seniors WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) unveiled the Seniors' Choice Act, a legislative proposal to help America's seniors by building a stronger, more sustainable Medicare program through immediate and longer-term reforms, many rooted in long-standing, bipartisan ideas. Non-partisan experts have warned the current Medicare program is facing insolvency due to unsustainable growth, and the Seniors' Choice Act would fix its shortcomings so that it remains a viable option for seniors participating in the program now and for future enrollees. "We made a promise to our seniors that Medicare will be there when they need it most, but the program as it currently stands is broken. We have a moral obligation to our parents, children, and all Americans to take steps now to save Medicare. The Medicare program in its current form is unsustainable, and we have an obligation and opportunity to improve it for our nation's seniors within the next few years," Senator Burr said. "Unfortunately, President Obama's budget proposal promoted more of the same - provider cuts that will only jeopardize seniors' access to care, rather than proposing reforms that will address the serious challenges facing the program for seniors today and in the future. We can reduce Medicare spending by putting patients first and implementing common-sense reforms that promote choice and competition, giving seniors the same kinds of choices that Members of Congress enjoy. Our patient-focused proposal is a better way to put Medicare on a sustainable path and fulfill our promise to seniors today and in the future, and it will serve as a blueprint for legislative reform," Senator Burr said. "Right now, the American people have little faith in Congress' ability to do anything to fix the problems facing our nation, and with good reason. But let's prove them wrong. The Medicare program is broken and we have an obligation and an opportunity to fix it," Dr. Coburn said. "Seniors and future retirees across the country are waking up to the reality of Medicare's brokenness. With insolvency predicted to hit as soon as 2016, and with budget experts warning that Medicare represents the nation's single largest fiscal challenge, Americans are right to be concerned. What we are proposing is the catalyst needed to strengthen and save Medicare for our nation's seniors and ensure the program will be there for future retirees," said Coburn. The Seniors' Choice Act blends many of the short term Medicare reforms proposed by Senators Coburn and Lieberman (I-CT) with the longer-term reforms that build on ideas put forward by Alice Rivlin, former director of the independent Congressional Budget Office, and former Senator Pete Domenici (R-NM), as well as the bipartisan Medicare Commission led by former Senator John Breaux (D-LA) and former Congressman Bill Thomas (R-CA). By incorporating thoughtful elements from these proposals into its framework, the Seniors' Choice Act can help move the debate forward about how to craft Medicare reform to ensure the program remains strong for seniors today and in the future. Beginning in 2014, the Seniors' Choice Act would give patients in traditional Medicare a new benefit. For the first time, seniors would have the peace of mind that they are protected against high out-of-pocket medical costs and will have targeted and coordinated care when they need it. This policy proposal builds on recommendations of President Obama's bipartisan Fiscal Commission and the bipartisan Lieberman-Coburn Medicare Reform proposal. The Seniors' Choice Act outlines other commonsense reforms that may also be implemented as soon as 2014. These include providing seniors with a unified deductible and predictable cost-sharing, gradually increasing the eligibility age and modestly increasing premiums. Immediate Reforms: Better Benefits The Seniors' Choice Act gives seniors new, strengthened benefits: •Seniors in traditional Medicare will have peace of mind that they are protected from unexpected, high medical costs by limiting their maximum out-of-pocket medical expenses under Medicare Parts A and B. •Seniors in traditional Medicare who would otherwise be at risk because of their health care needs will be able to benefit from targeted care coordination when they need it. •Many seniors will save money. Modernizing Medigap and rationalizing cost-sharing will offer many seniors the chance to save money each month. The longer-term framework of the Seniors' Choice Act, which would bring competition and choice to Medicare, would be adopted in 2016. Premium support would strengthen Medicare by giving seniors the right to choose the Medicare plan that best meets their needs. Traditional Medicare Fee-For-Service (FFS) and private plans would be forced to compete head-to-head. Under the Seniors' Choice Act, seniors will have similar types of choices as Members of Congress currently enjoy. They may choose to either keep their traditional FFS, or they may switch to a more affordable, better coordinated plan that meets their health care needs. Longer-Term Reforms: Better Choices •Premium support is a patient-centered approach to strengthening Medicare. Instead of a one-size-fits-all approach to Medicare, seniors will have the choice of a better benefit that meets their individual health care needs. •Premium support puts patients and doctors back in charge of their health care decisions, instead of the President's unelected, unaccountable board of bureaucrats—the Independent Payment Advisory Board—with the power to cut Medicare payments to doctors, which will threaten patients' access to care. •Medicare will compete for patients and be forced to give seniors and taxpayers the best deal for their dollar. •Seniors have benefited from choice and competition in Medicare Part D, which has enabled seniors to have an affordable prescription drug benefit. Seniors should benefit from the same kinds of choices and competition for their entire Medicare benefit. •Premium support will strengthen Medicare for seniors by giving them the ability to choose the Medicare plan that will best work for them, just like they do with their Medicare prescription drug coverage today. You may read more about the Seniors' Choice Act by following the links below: The Seniors' Choice Act: Full Report Seniors' Choice Act: Better Benefit for Seniors Seniors' Choice Act: Questions & Answers Seniors' Choice Act: Illustrative Patient Scenarios Medicare by the Numbers MCPA vs. IPAB How Seniors' Choice Act Builds on Bipartisan Proposals
02.13.2012	02.13.12 Senator Richard Burr’s Statement on the President’s Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on President Obama's budget proposal. "In 2009, the President promised to cut the deficit in half. Instead, America has witnessed four straight years of $1 trillion deficits under his watch. Our national debt now exceeds the size of our entire economy, yet the President still refuses to lead on this issue. "Rather than acknowledging the gravity of our economic challenges and proposing a serious budget to rein in spending and spur economic growth, President Obama's budget offers nothing more than smoke and mirrors to create the illusion of savings. True savings are created by reductions in spending, not by increasing taxes or employing disingenuous math like the President does by counting savings from cuts under the Budget Control Act that is already law. "The simple reality is that his budget would make our economy even worse. Rather than making the tough choices necessary to get our economy back on track, the President imposes tax hikes that will hurt job creators and our economy, ignores the pending insolvency of Medicare and Social Security, and fails to reduce the debt and rein in spending. Budget gimmicks, such as claiming savings from the drawdown in military operations in Afghanistan even though money was never borrowed for these unplanned operations, are dishonest. A responsible budget is a vital first step to getting our economy back on track, and with nearly 13 million Americans 'officially' unemployed today, we need a serious budget that will tackle our economic crisis, work towards job creation, and provide for the security of future generations."
02.09.2012	02.09.12 Senator Burr Introduces Extended Unemployment Benefits Reform Act WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Extended Unemployment Benefits Reform Act of 2012. After six months of unemployment, this bill would require individuals to complete 20 hours of public service and 20 hours of active job search per week as conditions for receipt of federal extended unemployment benefits. "The United States economy is suffering, and we have seen record levels of sustained high unemployment. Job creators are hesitant to hire new employees due to a lack of certainty and predictability in taxes and regulations, and this can be demoralizing for millions of people in need of work," Senator Burr said. "Engagement in volunteer service will encourage unemployed workers to maintain job skills, marketability, and a sense of self-worth while providing for the betterment of their communities. Even more, the active job search requirement will enhance the integrity of the unemployment system and its ability to identify and serve those most in need." With nearly 13 million unemployed and potentially limited opportunities for voluntary service, states would have the discretionary power to waive the requirement for individuals who had made a concerted effort to volunteer. In addition, unemployed individuals may be exempt from the public service requirement due to illness, family emergency, or if they are unable to perform public service due to child care responsibilities or lack of transportation. Public service may be fulfilled by working for a 501( c ) (3) organization or a federal, state or local agency, and the bill protects government workers from displacement by only permitting volunteering with a governmental agency when permitted by current law. The bill allows the "work activities" recognized by the federal government in welfare reform to reduce required public service. These activities include subsidized private sector employment; subsidized public sector employment; work experience (including work associated with the refurbishing of publicly assisted housing); on-the-job training; job readiness assistance; vocational educational training, education directly related to employment, receiving a high school diploma or a certificate of high school equivalency; and providing child care services to an individual who is participating in a community service program. Senator Burr is proud to announce that 17 of his colleagues have joined him as co-sponsors of this legislation: -Senator Mitch McConnell -Senator Kelly Ayotte -Senator John Barrasso -Senator John Boozman -Senator Saxby Chambliss -Senator Tom Coburn, M.D. -Senator Thad Cochran -Senator John Cornyn -Senator Jim DeMint -Senator Michael Enzi -Senator Lindsey Graham -Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison -Senator Ron Johnson -Senator Rand Paul -Senator James Risch -Senator John Thune -Senator Roger Wicker
02.02.2012	02.02.12 Senator Richard Burr Discusses the STOCK Act, Economy, Housing, Syria & Afghanistan with Jerri Jameson In case you missed it this morning, be sure to listen to Senator Richard Burr's (R-NC) interview with Jerri Jameson on News Radio 570 WWNC. Listen Here: http://bit.ly/yHqHWC FULL TRANSCRIPT JAMESON: On the phone with me, I believe in Washington, is Senator Richard Burr. Senator, how are you this morning? BURR: Jerri, doing great, and I am in Washington. JAMESON: I thought you might be. There's a lot going on, isn't there? BURR: Oh, another productive week. I think the United States Senate has had one vote, and we're going to be embattled in legislation all week, and probably next week, which does no more than codify what existing law says. JAMESON: Now let me guess, you've got to be talking about the STOCK Act. BURR: I am. JAMESON: You know, I've asked some listeners for questions, and then I am mixing them in with some I have on my own, but that actually is something that somebody said, "Is it really necessary to pass law to make lawmakers follow laws that are already on the books? BURR: It's ludicrous. That's why Dr. Tom Coburn and I were the two brave souls that walked up and said we shouldn't be doing this. We should be focused on jobs, the economy. We should be taking up real legislation. It's like me saying to you, "Jerri, before you come to work this morning and you're going to drive your car, I'm going to pass a law that says you have to have a driver's license." JAMESON: Right. BURR: I mean, it's insane. JAMESON: They just need to enforce laws that are already on the books. BURR: The laws that are currently on the books apply to all members of Congress and all staff, not limited staff. JAMESON: Right, it prohibits government workers period from engaging in these financial transactions. BURR: So we're going to have political theater this week as to whether it applies to the executive branch, whether it doesn't. The fact is SEC law applies to every person who trades in America. JAMESON: You know, you pointed out that you were one of two who voted against it. Of course now that's being turned around that you two were the partisan ones. But I agree with you that it's kind of ludicrous that we have a law on the books that does apply, as you said, to everybody who trades, and they have to codify it even more. I want to get to unemployment, though, if we may. North Carolina's unemployment in December went up in 93 of 100 counties. American Airlines, the third largest airline, announcing they are going to be laying off 13,000 employees in the next couple weeks. Simple question, not so simple answer. What needs to be done to get Americans back to work? BURR: Very simply, Jerri, we need our policies to reflect the willingness of people with capital to invest in job creation. Right now businesses are frozen because they don't know what tax rate is going to be applied to them in the future. They don't know what regulatory architecture they're going to have to live under. Therefore, they can't figure out whether it's worth investing based upon what the return might be. As long as we've got capital in that situation, then you will freeze private capital, and the only place, the only place, to create jobs will be in the public sector. What we don't need are more public sector jobs. We actually need the reduction of the federal workforce. We need to replace those and increase them with new jobs, new employment, in the private sector. JAMESON: Some are saying we need to obviously offer incentives for people of insource rather than outsource, with outsourcing of course being kind of the trend. BURR: Well, but Jerri, I think what we need to ask is what's the reason for outsourcing? The reason for outsourcing is that it's cheaper to do business in other areas. Every economist in the world and every review of the United States system today says that if we would do comprehensive, corporate tax reform in the United States, get the corporate rate down to 25%, we wouldn't have to have a debate about dividends or capital gains at a different rate. We would be so competitive in the rest of the world that we would actually see insourcing, not by U.S. companies but by foreign companies coming here, and we would stop the outsourcing of U.S. companies. JAMESON: That would be nice, wouldn't it? BURR: Well, I think it's an easy fix. But let's face it, this is an election year, and the President would rather use corporations as the boogeyman for the election than he would as the secret to turning our economy around and creating jobs. JAMESON: Well, speaking of the economy, obviously foreclosures, homeowners are struggling, the President this week expanding on his plan to allow homeowners, even those who owe more than their home is worth, to be able to refinance their homes, to take advantage of the low interest rates. His plan calls for it to be paid for with an assessment on big banks. I want to separate the plan and the funding of it, because I know Congress has not gone for bank assessments before. But do you think giving homeowners more access to refinancing at the lower rates would be good for the housing market? BURR: Jerri, I call it loan modification, and we ought to have been doing loan modification on any mortgages that the federal government, that the American taxpayer, was obligated for. That's all the Freddie & Fannie inventory, that's all the FHA inventory. But I don't think it's appropriate for the federal government to go into the private marketplace and tell private risk-takers, "Okay, we're going to charge you a fee and you're going to modify these loans." Smart financial institutions have already re-worked the loans that they think people have the capabilities of paying off. The ones they haven't re-worked are the ones where the individual probably never should have gotten the loan to begin with or the property was over-valued from the start. It will, in their estimation over the life of the loan, never see revaluation. That's what the President's attacking. I think his own Administration has admitted out of the modifications that have already been made, almost 50% have gone back into foreclosure. So this is not a panacea. But I think what we need to try to do is re-structure the re-payments to where people have got 30 years versus 10 or 12 or 14. None of us know when prices will re-inflate, but we all can agree to this. The debt problem that we're in in this country, as a country, as states, as localities, and as individuals, is going to take decades for us to work out from under. JAMESON: Well, you mention Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and I know there's legislation under consideration that would stop the executives from getting their bonuses, the bonuses worth millions. The measure would take the unpaid bonus money and go to paying the outstanding debt still from the 2008 taxpayer bailout. Where do you stand on that? BURR: Listen, I don't think that any corporate executive ought to be rewarded for bad performance. In Freddie & Fannie's case, that's exactly what they're doing. Those that run it now argue that if they don't offer bonuses they don't get talented people. We've got a lot of talented people unemployed today that would love to be at Freddie & Fannie helping to turn it around, and a lot of them, if not all of them, come right out of the financial services industry. So to suggest that they can't attract the talent with the salary that's already on the job without the bonus is just ludicrous. JAMESON: We've got just a couple more minutes, but there are two stories that are in the news today that I really do want to touch on. One is the Arab League resolution calling on Syrian President Bashar al- Assad to leave power. Of course, the United States pushing for that, Russia opposing that. Where do you see this going? Is there concern of possible intervention by NATO and therefore the U.S.? BURR: It may be talked about in international circles, but I don't think there's concern within Syria or the Bashar al-Assad government. They've got a firm handle on things. They are running Syria just like his dad did when they had a genocide of 30,000 people. Not 300 but 30,000 in one swoop. I think that until we apply the correct amount of international pressure, until we really get aggressive on sanctions, until we cut them off from the rest of the world, than we're going to see the Bashar al-Assad government try to hang on through the use of their military. JAMESON: Lastly on my end, and then whatever you want to speak about of course we'll open to you, but Defense Secretary Leon Panetta saying that U.S. and its NATO partners will be ending their combat role in Afghanistan next year, switching from combat to training and advising of the Afghan forces. So, a little earlier than originally planned or announced. Is this a good strategy to be setting that kind of deadline? I know there's pros and cons to it, but or pulling it in sooner? BURR: Jerri, yesterday I would have told you no, today I still tell you no. I'm not sure what lead to the Secretary's announcement late in the afternoon. There was certainly no warning on Capitol Hill that I'm aware of. I think that all of the military plans have been developed based upon a date in 2014, and I was supportive of that. But I think to accelerate that by a year may fit in the Secretary's need for the budget constraints of the Department of Defense. If we've got men and women that we've asked to go into a combat theater, I don't want to run the war in that theater based upon what the budget says we can do. I want to do it based upon whether we intend to win and if so, what we need to do to win. JAMESON: Alright, Senator Burr. Thank you so much. Anything else that you would like to touch on maybe for your constituents or listeners that we may not know is going on there in Washington? BURR: Well, Jerri, there's not a whole lot going on there right now. We have seen Presidential politics start in an earlier period than ever in the 18 years that I have been involved in service. I think it will continue to dominate the direction of the legislative debate up here. I believe that means very little gets done this year, and that's sad based on the financial condition of the United States. JAMESON: With that, Senator Burr, we thank you for your time. We look forward to speaking with you regularly.
01.31.2012	01.31.12 Senator Burr Introduces Bill to Increase Efficiency in Veterans Court WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced a bill that would require all judges of the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims to reside within 50 miles of Washington, D.C., in order to increase the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the Court. "As anyone who has managed a business or office can tell you, things tend to run more smoothly when those people integral to the day-to-day operations are present," Senator Burr said. "If Veterans Court judges have to travel across the country to get to their offices, it could make it extremely difficult for them to fully engage in their case work, manage their staff, and carry out their judicial functions. Our nation's veterans could suffer from these inefficiencies. By requiring judges to live near the court's office, we can help ensure that veterans receive the timely decisions from the Court that they deserve." The bill further aims to reduce any costs that could arise if judges work remotely, such as shipping materials that judges could otherwise review in person. The bill would require that, while in active service, a judge of the Veterans Court must reside within 50 miles of Washington, D.C., where the Court's office is located. Failure to comply with the residency requirement would be grounds for removal for all judges confirmed on or after January 1, 2012. The changes would be effective 6 months after the date of enactment, in order to provide any affected judges with sufficient time to comply. The 50-mile residency requirement is modeled after the residency requirement currently in law for the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, which is also located in Washington, D.C.
01.31.2012	01.31.12 Statement on Joint Congressional Letter Regarding Transparency in Camp Lejeune Investigation Last week, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) sent a letter to Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, regarding the legal basis for removing certain information from the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry's (ATSDR) scientific report on water contamination at Camp Lejeune. Senators Hagan (R-NC), Nelson (D-FL) and Rubio (R-FL) as well as Representatives Miller (D-NC) and Dingell (D-MI) joined him in signing the letter. Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement on his Facebook page. http://www.facebook.com/SenatorRichardBurr "For three decades, the Marines, sailors, and their families who lived at Camp Lejeune were exposed to TCE and other dangerous chemicals in their tap water. A significant portion of this community have suffered severe health consequences, such as cancers caused by exposure to TCE, which the EPA finally acknowledged to be a carcinogen in October 2011. This acknowledgement of a direct scientific connection between TCE and a number of cancers and illnesses helped answer some questions for the men and women who wondered how they were affected by contaminated drinking water on the military base, but many more questions remain. "Marines, sailors, and the rest of the Camp Lejeune community were sacrificing for our country when they were exposed to harmful chemicals without their knowledge, and we owe it to them to continue investigating how they were affected, spur greater health awareness, and provide them the compensation and care they deserve. I introduced the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act (S. 277) to provide care for those who have endured tremendous pain through no fault of their own and am hopeful that it will pass, but in the meantime we must conduct an open and transparent investigation of the effects of water contamination at the base. "I am troubled by the United States Marine Corps' (USMC) recent letter to the ATRSDR, which asserted that the ATRSDR's report on Camp Lejeune needed to redact locations of Camp Lejeune's active installation water system infrastructure due to national security concerns. This information has been publically available for several years, and it is unclear why it suddenly became a security threat and had to be removed from the report released by the ATSDR on January 19, 2012. "I fear that removing this information may jeopardize ongoing and future studies of the water contamination at Camp Lejeune, and also worry that this sets a dangerous precedent of withholding information from scientific studies for reasons of national security without adequate legal justification. "On Friday, I joined a bipartisan group of Senators and Congressmen in sending a letter to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention asking him to look into the legal soundness of the USMC's request to redact this previously public information. I look forward to receiving his response." You may read the full text of the letter here: http://burr.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/JointLetterLejeune.pdf
01.30.2012	01.30.12 Menendez, Burr Applaud President for Joining Call for More Use of Natural Gas in Transportation Authors of NAT GAS Act Look Forward to Working with the Administration To Pass Fully Paid-For New Incentives WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded the President for endorsing the idea of creating new incentives for running medium and heavy trucks, and public transportation vehicles on natural gas. The Senators are authors of the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions (NAT GAS) Act of 2011, legislation that would boost domestic production of vehicles that run on clean natural gas by extending tax credits for natural gas vehicles and building refueling infrastructure, and be fully paid for by a temporary user fee on natural gas used as a vehicle fuel. Today President Obama will give two speeches about his clean energy blueprint announced during the State of the Union address. The first talk will occur at a United Parcel Service facility in Las Vegas, the second at Buckley Air Force base in Aurora, Colorado. In both speeches the President is expected to endorse new incentives for medium- and heavy-duty trucks that run on natural gas and support programs to convert municipal buses and trucks to run on natural gas. These ideas are both in and fully paid for in the NAT GAS Act. "We look forward to working with the President to pass our legislation to use more cheap, domestic natural gas here in America instead of exporting this fuel abroad," said Menendez. "Our bipartisan bill will create jobs and lower transportation costs and do so without adding one dime to the deficit. This is exactly the kind of bipartisan proposal we should be able to pass, even in an election year." "Natural gas represents a way to boost our nation's energy security and help free us from our over-reliance on foreign oil, and I am pleased to hear that the President is committed to working with us on this effort" said Senator Burr. "Energy security is absolutely vital to national security, and our bill would be a step in the right direction towards decreasing our dependence on imported energy sources." Currently there are nearly 14 million natural gas vehicles in the world, but only about 117,000 in the United States. [EIA, 2011] It is estimated that the NAT GAS Act of 2011 will jumpstart the industry and in ten years add over 700,000 NGVs to our roads. In addition it is estimated that the bill will displace over 20 billion gallons of fuel and create over 1 million direct and indirect jobs. Natural Gas is Plentiful North America's natural gas resources discoveries have increased by more than 1,800 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) over the past three years, bringing the total natural gas resource base to more than 3,000 Tcf. With U.S. natural gas demand at about 23.5 Tcf per year, this resource could supply current consumption for over 100 years. [Fueling North America's Energy Future, p. ES-4] Natural Gas Is Cheap At the pump, on average, CNG sells for $2.33 per gasoline gallon equivalent while gasoline sells for $3.46 [DOE Clean Cities Price Report, p. 3]. LNG, which competes primarily with diesel fuel, currently is selling for $2.25 per diesel gallon equivalent while diesel sells for $3.81 per gallon. [Id., p. 6 n.6] We Have To Decide: Do We Use It Here Or Export It? If we do not use our natural gas here in America, it will be exported abroad, for other's benefit. The price of natural gas internationally is significantly higher than it is here in the United States. As a result one facility recently received a permit to export natural gas and four more U.S. facilities are following suit. [Testimony of Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oil & Natural Gas Mr. Chris Smith, 11/8/11] We can use that natural gas here in the United States to displace oil or we can export it, so other countries can improve their own energy security and clean their air.
01.30.2012	01.30.12 HOEVEN-LUGAR-VITTER, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO APPROVE THE KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE 44 Cosponsors Support the Bill WASHINGTON -U.S. Senators John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), David Vitter (R-La.) and a total of 44 senators today announced that they will introduce legislation to approve the Keystone XL pipeline project under Congress's authority enumerated in the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8. The bipartisan group of senators committed to working together to advance this critical project for the United States. Hoeven, Lugar and the other senators have been working with colleagues in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives to ensure that this vital project is advanced. The legislation authorizes TransCanada to construct and operate the Keystone XL pipeline from Alberta, Canada, to the U.S. Gulf Coast, transporting an additional 830,000 barrels of oil per day to U.S. refineries, which includes 100,000 barrels a day from the Bakken region of North Dakota and Montana. The bill allows the company to move forward with construction of the pipeline in the United States while the state of Nebraska works to determine an alternative route. Hoeven secured an opinion from the non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) confirming Congress's constitutional authority to approve the project. The Keystone XL pipeline project has been under review for more than three years, but President Obama rejected it last week saying the 60-day provision authored by Lugar, Hoeven and Vitter included in the payroll tax cut extension bill passed in December didn't give him enough time to review the project. In fact, the Obama Administration spent 1,217 days reviewing the pipeline and there was no time limit on the State Department's ability to review the Nebraska portion of the project. "Our legislation not only acknowledges the vital national interest this project represents on many levels, but also works in a bipartisan way to begin construction," Senator Hoeven said. "It will create thousands of jobs, help control fuel prices at the pump and reduce our reliance on Middle East oil and it can be accomplished with congressional authority, just as the Alaska Pipeline was nearly 40 years ago. The reality is that if America doesn't build the Keystone project the Canadian oil will still be produced and shipped, but instead of being refined in the United States by American workers and benefiting American consumers, it will be shipped by tanker across the Pacific to China." "The job creation, economic and energy security arguments are overwhelmingly in favor of building the pipeline. A majority of Americans support it. President Obama's opposition is not in the best interest of the United States. The President has failed to lead but we will not stop trying to complete this critical supply line," Senator Lugar said. "This new bill is a lot like the old one, but it makes it definitive that Congress has the authority to push the Keystone XL Pipeline forward," said Senator Vitter. "Everyone in Washington talks about saving the economy and creating jobs - the Keystone XL project will actually do something about that. And it would be pure politics for the president not to support it." "The President said recently that he was for an 'all of the above' approach to energy, yet he rejected the one bipartisan energy project that is shovel-ready and can produce thousands of new jobs almost immediately - the Keystone XL Pipeline," Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell said. "While it's clear that the President was appealing to his liberal environmental base when he blocked Keystone, this legislation would move us towards the creation of thousands of jobs and energy security for our nation." Legislative Summary The Keystone XL pipeline has been subject to rigorous environmental analysis for more than three years, and was on schedule to be decided on by the U.S. State Department by the end of 2011. By contrast, the original Keystone pipeline took two years to review and became operational last year. The Hoeven-Lugar-Vitter legislation builds off the completed Environmental Impact Statement, which was finished by the State Department on Aug. 26, 2011. Additionally, it requires the U.S. State Department to enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) within 30 days with the State of Nebraska to assist in rerouting in that state, which will be subject to the Nebraska governor's agreement on the route within the state. However, it allows Nebraska all the time it needs to identify a new route within the state to strengthen the completed Environmental Impact Statement. Further, the legislation requires strong environmental and safety requirements by incorporating the environmental and safety standards required and finalized by the Secretary of State. At the same time, the bill protects state and local laws relating to the protection of private property rights by ensuring those laws are not changed in this process. In addition to Senators Hoeven, Lugar, and Vitter, other original cosponsors of the bill are Minority Leader Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Mike Johanns (R-Neb.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), John Thune (R-S.D.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Ala.), Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.); Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Patrick Toomey (R-Penn.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Dan Coats (R-Ind.), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.). What Senators Are Saying Sen. Mike Johanns: "This pipeline is not only a national priority because of the energy and jobs it will bring, it's also a Nebraska priority. I believe we must move the project forward while still allowing Nebraska and TransCanada the time they need to find the right route through our state and this legislation does that." Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison: "We have spent billions in this country on 'stimulus' packages that have not stimulated employment. With the Keystone Pipeline we have a private, non-taxpayer entity that will create thousands of jobs, bring approximately 700,000 barrels of oils sands to Texas refineries, and produce cheaper energy for families and small businesses in our country." Sen. Jerry Moran: "Our country cannot afford to further delay long-term energy security, and unemployed Americans with the skills to construct this important project should not be forced to wait any longer. The Obama Administration has already spent three years reviewing the Keystone XL permit and conducting two comprehensive environmental evaluations of the project. Furthermore, the Canadian government has made it clear they will pursue other markets if this project cannot be completed. This legislation would put Americans to work now and provide an opportunity to grow local, state and national economies while taking a vital step toward energy security." Sen. Orrin Hatch: "The White House's decision to reject the Keystone pipeline project was another failure in leadership from one of the most anti-American-energy Administrations in our nation's history. This common-sense legislation would overturn the White House's inexplicable decision and allow this critical, job-creating project to move forward." Sen. Ron Johnson: "President Obama says he wants to create jobs, invest in shovel ready infrastructure projects, and reduce America's dependence on Middle East oil. But then he kills the Keystone XL pipeline, and the 20,000 jobs and the billions of dollars in private sector infrastructure spending that died with it. The President's decision shows where his true loyalties lie: with extreme environmentalists. He is showing once again his dedication to increasing the federal government's control and intrusion into our lives. I'm pleased to join as an original cosponsor of this legislation, which would allow this important project to go forward." Sen. Mike Crapo "The Keystone XL Pipeline project will create immediate jobs, stimulate the economy and generate new revenue for cash-strapped state and local governments. Further delays simply to satisfy political allies unnecessarily sacrifices real job creation for narrow interests." Sen. Dan Coats: "It is both irrational and disingenuous for an administration that claims its number one priority is jobs to block a project that would put thousands of Americans back to work. We need results from Washington, not more excuses. Keystone XL pipeline has bipartisan support because it will provide jobs for hardworking Americans and reduce our country's dependence on Middle East oil." Sen. Rob Portman: "I urge President Obama to support the Keystone XL pipeline, one of the largest private sector infrastructure projects in the nation. This project would create tens of thousands of jobs, and would likely benefit Ohio's struggling manufacturing sector." Sen. Saxby Chambliss: "We simply cannot afford to delay approval of the Keystone pipeline permit any longer. Its construction will allow us to increase oil imports from Canada, a trusted ally and friend. By rejecting this permit, President Obama is putting his own re-election ahead of America's economy and energy security. After years of review and environmental evaluation, it's time to move forward on this project. This legislation will ensure we do just that." Sen. John Cornyn: "The Keystone XL pipeline will bring thousands of long-term jobs and energy security to the United States, and will be good for the economy, good for national security, and good for Texas." Sen. Lamar Alexander: "If the president won't act, Congress should. There's no excuse not to move forward with a pipeline that will create 20,000 jobs and make us less reliant on oil from hostile countries." Sen. Pat Toomey: "We can't wait for the president to drag his feet on this job-creating project any longer. Instead of focusing on American energy security and putting people back to work, the president has chosen to appease environmental special interests instead. It's time for Congress to step up and do what the president hasn't - authorize this pipeline and create tens of thousands of American jobs, increase our access to oil from our friends in Canada, and diminish our dependence on less secure sources of energy." Sen. Joe Manchin: "As our country continues to need oil, common sense tells me I'd rather buy it from our friends in Canada, not countries around the world that seek to do us harm. I'd rather buy from our closest ally and create jobs in America than push Canada to build a pipeline out to the West Coast of North America that benefits countries like China. This pipeline is a job creator with support of both labor and business. It needs to be built not for the benefit of one political party or one state, but for the benefit of America." Sen. Johnny Isakson: "Now, more than ever, our country needs leadership on energy security. Unfortunately, President Obama failed to provide leadership when he rejected the Keystone XL pipeline last week. I am proud to join my Republican colleagues in the Senate in rejecting the president's action by trying to move the Keystone XL pipeline forward. I will continue to do everything I can to support this critically important project, which will bring 700,000 barrels of crude to the U.S. from our strong ally Canada and at the same time, create thousands of American jobs." Sen. Dean Heller: "Job creation should be a top priority for Congress and the Keystone XL pipeline would undoubtedly create jobs for Americans at a time when our nation needs them most. Moreover, it would contribute to our nation's energy security which is critical to economic growth. It is time to put partisanship aside and start moving legislation that will help put Americans back to work." Sen. Bob Corker: "The Keystone pipeline will create thousands of American jobs and provide our country with access to a large supply of North American energy. There is no good reason to block this project when we really need the energy and the jobs the pipeline would generate." Sen. Jeff Sessions: "Instead of pouring money into politically-favored companies like Solyndra, the President should have allowed the construction of the Keystone Pipeline which would have produced thousands of good-paying jobs. This bill is a great way to create jobs without adding to the debt and will make our country stronger and more energy independent." Sen. Lindsey Graham: "The Obama Administration's decision to delay construction of the Keystone XL pipeline was irresponsible. Keystone XL will create thousands of jobs in the United States and also help reduce our dependence on oil from the Middle East and Venezuela. The construction and operation of Keystone XL is an economic and energy must-do for the United States. I am pleased to support this effort and am hopeful it will pass the Congress in a strong, bipartisan vote." Sen. Jim Risch: "The decision by President Obama to deny the permit for the Keystone XL oil pipeline was flat wrong and puts politics before jobs and economic growth. That denial could very well allow the Chinese government to strike a deal and have the oil shipped to them instead of the U.S. This legislation prevents that by clearing the way for this project to move forward."
01.24.2012	01.24.12 Senator Burr’s Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address. "Americans today are faced with economic uncertainty, and they are right to expect leadership from their elected representatives in Washington. President Obama touched on many important issues tonight, but actions speak louder than words. While some might have been impressed with his delivery, I contend that he must be judged on his policies. "I do not blame the President for the difficulties he inherited when he took office, but I do hold him accountable for the ineffective, expensive, job-killing policies he has forced onto the American people over the last three years. Has he forgotten about the first two years of his presidency when almost all of his economic policies were implemented with the help of a Democrat-controlled Congress? For two years, Democrats controlled the White House and both houses of Congress, and if the President wanted to do something to fix the housing crisis, address student loans, reform immigration policy, and promote a comprehensive energy policy, or work towards any of the goals he brought up tonight, he could have easily done so. His inaction proves that the things he called priorities tonight were not high on his list at the time. "It is time for President Obama to face the facts - his policies have failed and are making our economy worse. Our debt has reached record heights under his watch, and unemployment has exceeded 8 percent every month that he has been in office. Many of the challenges the President mentioned tonight were created here in Washington by expanding the size and scope of the federal government and increasing the debt limit in hopes of turning the economy around. As we have learned, however, throwing money at our problems is not the right approach to restoring economic prosperity. "The President should stand behind his bipartisan pledges and work with Congress to find ways to enact change that will truly put us on the path to prosperity. "I was glad to hear the President address the need to increase our production of domestic energy, and I am pleased that there is already a bipartisan framework in Congress to spur the production and use of natural gas called the NAT GAS Act. Energy independence plays a vital role in America's national security, and this bill represents a step in the right direction towards decreasing our dependence on imported energy sources. However, I wish the President would listen to his own concerns and the recommendations of his own "blue-ribbon" commission and reverse his decision to halt construction on the Keystone XL Pipeline. Instead, he pays lip service to energy security. "I also applaud the President's call for fiscal responsibility, but we have heard all of this before and the American people demand action, not just more of the same. We must rein in spending from Washington to begin paying off our enormous debt and live within our means. At last year's State of the Union, President Obama called for the merging of federal agencies to reduce duplicative functions and waste. I proposed bills that would accomplish this goal, and I hope that the Administration will consider this approach and urge the Majority in the Senate to act. "However, fiscal responsibility will never be achieved without a sound, responsible federal budget. It has been 1,000 days since the Senate passed an annual budget, and this is simply unacceptable. I was disappointed that the President announced that he is once again delaying his budget recommendations for the coming fiscal year. Annual budgets are absolutely vital to get our fiscal house in order, rein in government spending, and put our economy back on the right track. Even more, we should work towards a balanced budget amendment to restore the confidence in our government and our economy. Instead, the President pays lip service to fiscal responsibility. "I was also happy to hear the President discuss the need to make the tax system more equitable and less burdensome on middle class families and small businesses. There are ways to accomplish this goal without raising taxes on job creators. Raising taxes on American families is a non-starter, but we can simplify the tax code and eliminate tax loopholes so that small businesses in North Carolina aren't paying more than large corporations who take advantage of the loopholes in our system. "The President's State of the Union address sounded a lot like speeches we have heard from him since he took office, but words alone are not enough to turn our economy around and put the American people back to work. I hope he will heed his own advice and work to advance policies that help instead of hurt and promote growth rather than stifle it."
01.23.2012	01.23.12 Senator Burr's Statement on the Dire Need for the Senate to Pass an Annual Budget In case you missed it, Senator Burr released the below statement on the need for the Senate to pass an annual budget on his Facebook page this morning. http://www.facebook.com/SenatorRichardBurr "Despite being one of our primary responsibilities, today marks the 999th day since the Senate passed an annual budget to fund the federal government. This is simply unconscionable. Annual budgets are absolutely vital to get our fiscal house in order, rein in government spending, and put our economy back on the right track. In the meantime, Congress has passed stop-gap spending bills that are simply not far reaching enough to address our nation's fiscal crisis and our out-of-control spending habits. "I feel so seriously about this issue that I signed on as a cosponsor of the No Budget No Pay Act, a bipartisan bill introduced by Senator Dean Heller. This bill would stop pay to members of Congress if they do not pass a budget on time each year. Like American families know, paychecks have to be earned, and if Congress can't live up to its responsibilities and pass a budget they don't deserve to be paid. It is that simple."
01.13.2012	01.13.12 Senator Burr’s Statement on President Obama’s Call for Consolidation Authority Washington, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on President Obama's Call for Consolidation Authority: "In last year's State of the Union, President Obama pledged to shrink the federal government and eliminate government waste by proposing to merge and consolidate federal agencies. Yet until now, he has remained silent on the issue while Senate Republicans introduced bills that would dramatically reduce the staggering amount of money wasted annually on duplicative programs within the federal government. "Last May, I introduced two bills that would advance the President's proposal - a bill to consolidate the Department of Labor and the Department of Commerce into a single, new agency called the Department of Commerce and the Workforce (DOCW), and a bill that would consolidate the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency into a single, new agency called the Department of Energy and Environment (DOEE). These bills would provide cost savings by combining duplicative functions while improving the administration of economic, energy and environmental policies by ensuring a comprehensive, coordinated approach. "We welcome the President back to the conversation, and look forward to Senator Reid allowing votes on these important bills that would initiate permanent reorganization of agencies."
12.19.2011	12.19.11 Senator Burr Statement on Today’s Senate Wrap-Up Votes Washington, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on today's Senate votes: "While I remain concerned about extending the temporary payroll tax holiday, this bill contained appropriate offsets to pay for the extension, and the job creating provisions in the bill that provide for work on the Keystone Pipeline are difficult to oppose. In addition to creating jobs, the Keystone Pipeline represents a step towards greater energy security for America, which ultimately equates to national security. The bill also contained very important provisions to appropriately reimburse doctors who treat Medicare patients, which is vital for the millions of Americans who enjoy benefits under that program. "I voted against the omnibus spending bill for one simple reason, it spends too much money. Despite being one of the primary responsibilities of Congress, it has been over two years since we have passed an actual budget. That is inexcusable, and we must pass a fiscally responsible budget that reins in federal spending and puts our country back on the path to fiscal sanity and economic recovery. The American people deserve a transparent, responsible budget, not just more of the same."
12.19.2011	12.19.11 Senator Burr Bill, Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act, Passes Senate Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded Senate passage of his bill, the Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act. The bill passed out of the Senate unanimously. The Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act requires a report from the Secretary of State regarding the designation of the Haqqani Network as a terrorist organization. Although they have been behind numerous attacks on civilians and U.S. and coalition forces, the Haqqani Network is not currently designated as a terrorist organization. "The Haqqanis are a violent extremist group who have perpetrated deadly attacks on U.S. forces and innocent Afghan civilians, used murder as an intimidation tactic against the Afghan people, and employed suicide attacks with deadly effectiveness," Senator Burr said. "They are an extremely dangerous group, and they deserve to be classified as a terrorist organization. Designating them as terrorists would allow us to more aggressively pursue them as well as limit the ability of foreign governments to provide them with aid and assistance." By designating a group as a terrorist organization, the United States is able to more effectively limit their financial, property, and travel interests. The designation not only stigmatizes the group within the international community, but also deters financial support, increases public awareness of the group and their activities, and conveys America's concern about the named organization to foreign governments. This bill requires the Secretary of State to submit a report to Congress on whether the Haqqani Network meets the criteria for designation as a terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Naturalization Act. If the Secretary of State determines that they should not be classified as a terrorist network, this bill requires a detailed justification as to what criteria has not been met.
12.14.2011	12.14.11 Bipartisan Group of Senators Agree: Extend Military Employment Protections Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) joined Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman Joe Lieberman (ID - CT), Ranking Member Susan Collins (R-ME), and Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA) in introducing legislation to provide employment protections to Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) who are called up for active military duty. The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, commonly known as USERRA, guarantees that when employees in both the private and public sector, who are also members of the National Guard, reservists, or veterans, are called to active duty, they can return to their civilian jobs when their service is complete. "There is no reason that TSA should not adhere to the same guidelines under USERRA that virtually all government agencies and businesses have to follow," Burr said. "We owe it to our nation's National Guard members and Reservists to ensure that their jobs are protected when they sign on to sacrifice in defense of our safety and freedoms, and this bill represents a step in that direction." "The Transportation Security Administration employs 3,500 reservists and another 15,000 veterans," Lieberman said. "The agency frequently recruits veterans, reservists, and members of the National Guard—and benefits from their employment. We should make it easier for TSA to attract the best and brightest to its ranks, by ensuring these men and women have the job protections they need and deserve. "TSOs find themselves in a clearly unjust and inadvertent position. Therefore, the legislation my colleagues and I have introduced would simply require TSA to comply with USERRA, providing TSOs the protection of reemployment, to which every other type of worker—in both the private and public sectors—is eligible." Said Blumenthal, "The TSA should be banned from discriminating against the brave servicemen and women of the National Guard and Reserve. Rejecting these patriots - simply because they may be deployed - is unconscionable. They make outstanding civilian employees, but their unemployment rate is unacceptably high. This legislation ensures that security screeners are able to return to their jobs after serving their country and that they are afforded the same protections against discrimination as almost all other employees in the United States." Collins said: "It's time that transportation security officers have the protection they deserve if they are called to military duty. It was right to give TSA some flexibility during its initial steep hiring ramp up. But now these civilian employees, who also serve in the Armed Forces Reserves and National Guard, should not fear for their job when they need time for training or deployment." Landrieu said: "These brave men and women make a great sacrifice serving their country. They deserve job security, no matter the employer - TSA should be no exception. If ever they feel they have been wrongly terminated because of their deployment, they should have the full protection of the law behind them." In the aftermath of 9/11, when Congress moved urgently to strengthen the safety of air travel, it provided the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) administrator with broad authority to hire, fire, and promote officers so TSA could deploy tens of thousands of new workers in a matter of weeks. TSOs were included in a select category of federal employees considered vital to national security and therefore were exempted from many labor laws. TSA has said it voluntarily complies with USERRA. But without the force of law, reservists, veterans and National Guard members cannot count on justice if they believe TSA has violated the law. According to The Veterans of Foreign Wars, at least two TSOs have tried to appeal TSA actions under USERRA. They were thwarted when both the Office of Special Counsel and Merit Systems Protection Board ruled that the Aviation and Transportation Security Act bars TSOs from USERRA coverage. Other cosponsors of the bill include Jon Tester (D-MT) and Daniel Akaka (D-HI). Representatives Tim Walz (D-MB), Bill Owens (D-NY) and Gus Bilrikis (R-FL) introduced a companion bill in the House.
12.14.2011	12.14.11 Senator Burr’s Statement on the Passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act Reauthorization of 2011 (PAHPA) out of the HELP Committee Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act Reauthorization of 2011 (PAHPA) out of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. With reports that Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is actively trying to produce toxic weapons, countries like Iran seeking weapons-grade nuclear technology, and potential homegrown terror threats, this bill is absolutely vital to America's national security. "The American people must be protected if an attack occurs, and I am proud that the Senate HELP Committee has voted to strengthen our ability to respond to an attack or emergency by reauthorizing the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act," Senator Burr said. "Since Congress passed the original PAHPA law in 2006, we have made great strides in getting our nation better prepared to handle a bioterror attack or public health emergency, but there is still much work to be done. "This bill will enhance existing programs through improvements based on the lessons we have learned over the past five years, including from the H1N1 pandemic and disasters at home and abroad. In addition, the bill will strengthen medical countermeasures by ensuring that the FDA has the tools it needs to respond to modern day threats." This important bipartisan legislation was introduced by Senators Burr (R-NC), Harkin (D-IA), Enzi (R-WY), and Casey (D-PA) to strengthen and enhance our nation's ability to prepare for and respond to all-hazards that may confront us, whether naturally occurring, like an influenza pandemic, or a deliberate bioterrorism attack. You can read more about it in this press release.
12.13.2011	12.13.11 Senator Richard Burr Discusses Payroll Tax, Government Waste & Accountability & More with Bill LuMaye Click here to listen to my interview with Bill LuMaye on News Radio 680 WPTF: http://bit.ly/1vjxKL FULL TRANSCRIPT LuMaye: Sir, thank you for taking time for us. Welcome to the show. Burr: Bill, good afternoon. Greetings from the airport, which seems to be a Monday routine. LuMaye: I bet it is. Speaking of airports - this drone thing. The President asked Iran for the drone back. Are you surprised they said no? Burr: I'm not surprised. I might be surprised if it was still there and not in China or Russia by now. LuMaye: Yeah, don't we have a self-destruct button on those things? Burr: No, Bill, we don't. It's a very difficult item to destruct. It's not as much the technology because it's fairly old technology. I know that's hard to believe, but we're still trying to assess what might be accessible from a data standpoint. Most of the activity off of that we handle in a different way than storage on the unit itself. Though this is an unfortunate thing, we feel fairly confident about what might be jeopardized. LuMaye: Well that's good news. So this payroll tax holiday, that President Obama would like to extend, and how people like you are standing in the way of people, just middle class, poor people, what's going on with that, Senator? Burr: Well, it's real simple. I can't think of anything that's probably more stupid than to take an entitlement, a trust fund, that currently is not financially sustainable, and to say to people don't pay your share in, we'll just forego it. And the federal government will do a smoke and mirrors thing where we put the money in and then we take the money out and we take another IOU. This is what people have complained about for years. If we believe, and I think we could make the case, that a stimulus right now would be good for an anemic economy and for one that could be directly affected by Europe, then Bill, let's write people a check. LuMaye: Yeah! Burr: We don't need to play this game where the President suggests that everybody is getting $1000. No, in fact, the people who are high income might be getting a little over $1000, but the people who really need it aren't getting near $1000. I think if we wrote them a check we could make the amounts out to the right thing and say to high income people, you know, you don't get one. I think we've got the capability to do it, but to have a debate on whether we should fund social security or not, I think it's ridiculous. LuMaye: Well I do too, but the message doesn't seem to be getting out. I had a Democrat call the show last week, and she said, "why aren't the Republicans talking about this, that it's coming right out of our retirement fund?" She was livid about it. She didn't like the idea. Burr: Bill. We've been screaming about it, but part of the problem is our own leadership here in Washington is scared to death not to extend this because the President's got the bully pulpit. You know, I just gave a speech in Raleigh before I left there, at lunch, where I said, you know, it's time for us to do the right thing. This is not Republican or Democrat. Do the right thing. Let's all take the lumps where we're going to take them, and if that means you don't get re-elected, hey, you don't get re-elected. If we start doing the right thing, generations to come are going to benefit from that. LuMaye: Yeah. I think that could not be more true than today. You also came up with something that's a bipartisan group of Senators, and you're included on this, and I really like this idea. This Taxpayers Right to Know Act. Can you tell us just a little about that, and how and why folks should be excited about this? Burr: Well we just believe there ought to be more transparency in what's going in Washington. It starts with the taxpayers understanding where their money's going to, what it's being spent for, and how we utilize it. This is a small step, and I think you would agree this is simple. This makes a lot of common sense. You can't believe how much opposition we're going to have to passage of that. LuMaye: Yeah, and this is simply just finding duplicate programs and ending them, which makes perfect sense. Burr: See, when you tell people what it is, they sort of look at you and go, well why did you have duplicative programs to start with? LuMaye: Right. Burr: In the case of some areas, we've got 17 programs that duplicate each other. Those are the types of things we've got to get into. We've got to achieve those savings, and by getting those savings, we're able then to have less money that we have to borrow. LuMaye: I want to ask you then, we've got 90 seconds left, I want to ask you about this. It's a pretty big deal for a lot of folks, this Defense Appropriations bill, where there was this exchange with Rand Paul and McCain on taking citizens and arresting them and putting them away without due process. What are your thoughts on that? Burr: Well, quite simply, I think that the way that the legislation is written, all we did was codify existing policy in the law. I respect Rand but I think he's reading it incorrectly. I think that the current way that it's written, U.S. citizens protect all their rights. The fact is, we've got this, I call it gray area, it's just an area where we haven't been into before, where we've got American citizens who have become radicalized. The question is, how do we handle them while maintaining the capabilities of full interrogation of them? That's the gray area that we're trying to address. I think we've done it while protecting the rights of those U.S. citizens. For non-U.S. citizens, we ought to keep the same policies we've got, we've just got to have an area where we will detain them. We'll continue to interrogate them for some time. But they still get some rights in the U.S. judicial system as we know through the Supreme Court ruling. LuMaye: Well, Senator Richard Burr, I'm out of time. You have a safe trip back to Washington. We appreciate you giving us a little bit of time today.
12.13.2011	12.13.11 Senator Richard Burr's Opening Statement at HELP Subcommittee Hearing - Breaking the Silence on Child Abuse In case you missed it, be sure to watch Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) deliver this statement regarding the importance of ensuring that children are free from abuse and neglect. Watch the video here: http://bit.ly/sTGVAf FULL TRANSCRIPT "Chairwoman Mikulski, I want to thank you for your passion for children. Clearly that comes across not only in your opening statement, but also in your actions in Congress. Nothing is more important than the safety and well-being of our nation's children. No child should ever have to suffer the pain or shame of abuse at the hands of an adult be that a parent, a teacher, a coach, or a stranger met in a park or on the Internet. "I also want to thank all of the witnesses for their time and dedication to our shared goal of ensuring that children are free from abuse and neglect. And in those horrific instances when a child is abused, I thank today's witnesses for their commitment to ensuring that we intervene quickly and more importantly that we provide those children with the support and treatment they need to heal and recover. "Over the years, Senator Mikulski and I have worked very closely together on legislation that would require criminal background checks for individuals working in child care or volunteering with vulnerable populations - kids, the disabled, and the elderly. When parents leave their children with an adult in an entrusted organization—day care, school, sports activity, afterschool care, summer camp--they shouldn't have to worry that they might be dropping their child off to be cared for by someone who has been convicted of a violent crime, especially a crime against children. "The use of criminal background checks for keeping criminals and violent offenders away for children, however, is but one important piece for keeping our children safe. A criminal background check will only weed out the offenders known to the criminal justice system or another government agency such as child protective services. Today, we will be hearing a lot about the offenders known to children, and often known to or suspected by adults within a community, who remain unknown to the judicial authorities due to the silence of their victims and the silence of adult bystanders. "To truly ensure our children are safe, both children and adults must break the silence of abuse. However, since children who are being abused live a life of fear and shame and are thus least able and likely to come forward, it is adults with whom the greatest responsibility for breaking the silence of abuse rests. As one of our witnesses said in her testimony for today, 'child…abuse is a grown-up problem.' "Although crimes against children through such means as sex trafficking or the Internet often tend to gain the greatest airtime on cable news, I think it's important for us to remember that most instances of abuse against kids, sexual or physical, are occurring not across state lines or on the Internet but in our own neighborhoods and communities and by folks we know. Since the vast majority of abuse is occurring so close to home, it is critical that we train and empower adults to know the signs of abuse and to know what to do when they see it or suspect it. "There is no quick fix. There is no single piece of legislation that will make the problem of child abuse magically go away. However, the adults returning to a collective sense of responsibility for all the children of their community can from the grassroots level begin to break the silence for the benefit of all kids. "I look forward to working with you Chairman Mikulski and all of our Senate colleagues to better understand and respond to the issues of child abuse in this nation today. We often hear that the children are our nation's future. How we as adults treat and how we respond to the ill treatment of our nation's children will determine what that future looks like. I thank my colleagues, and I thank the Chair."
12.13.2011	12.13.11 Burr, Hutchison, Rockefeller Win Passage of Bill Giving Expedited Airport Screening to Armed Forces Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr, Kay Bailey Hutchison, and Jay Rockefeller yesterday won Senate passage of the text of their bill, S. 1954, which would direct the Transportation Security Administration to develop and implement a plan providing expedited screening through the country's airports for U.S. Armed Forces personnel and their accompanying family members. "Our servicemen and women chose service over self when they volunteered to defend our nation. This sacrifice requires they and their families travel wherever duty calls, whether that means to a different state or overseas," Senator Burr said. "We ask so much of our military, and with the difficult tasks they perform and all they have on their minds, it makes sense to ensure their journeys are a little bit easier." "Our military men and women make sacrifices for our nation every day and the least we can do is make their lives - and the lives of their family members -- easier when they travel around the country they defend," said Senator Hutchison. "They've earned the overwhelming right from a grateful nation to go to the front of the line. This bipartisan initiative allows armed forces personnel expedited security screening through U.S. airports and I'm pleased the Senate took advantage of this opportunity to work together and get this done." "The men and women of our Armed Forces make sacrifices every day for this country. We should make this small adjustment to our TSA policy so that dedicated servicemen and women can travel a little easier as they head out on deployments or return to their families," said Senator Rockefeller. The "Risk-Based Security Screening for Members of the Armed Forces Act," S. 1954, provides a clear timeline for developing and implementing the program. The legislation directs TSA, in consultation with the Department of Defense, to develop expedited screening procedures that do not reduce security but do reduce obstacles in the travel process for military personnel.
12.09.2011	12.09.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Burr Announces Events for December 12, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Holly Springs and Raleigh on Monday, December 12, 2011. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, December 12 10:00 AM: Senator Burr to speak at Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics and HHS Pandemic Readiness Ceremony Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics Flu Cell Culture Facility 475 Green Oaks Parkway Holly Springs, NC 12:00 PM: Senator Burr to speak at NC FreeEnterprise Foundation Lunch Angus Barn 9401 Glenwood Ave Raleigh, NC
12.08.2011	12.08.11 The ‘Taxpayers Right to Know Act’ Introduced in Both Chambers of Congress Washington, D.C. - Yesterday afternoon, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of Senators to introduce the Taxpayers Right to Know Act, a bill to increase accountability and efficiency in government by requiring every federal agency to provide an annual report card for each of its programs detailing how taxpayer dollars are being spent. This billwas introduced with bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress by lead sponsors Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Congressman James Lankford (R-OK). This bill would require each government program to be identified and described in order to pinpoint and reduce duplicative programs and cut back on wasteful spending. The report card would also shed light on unnecessary or reckless spending by outlining the total administrative costs, expenditures for services, number of beneficiaries who receive assistance, and an estimate of the number of staff who administer each program. "The American people deserve to know where their hard-earned money goes when they send it to Washington," Senator Burr said. "With all the waste and abuse that occurs at the federal level, it is no wonder the American people don't trust Washington with their tax dollars. We must increase accountability in government spending, and this bill will take a big step towards accomplishing that." The Government Accountability Office released a report earlier this year that found "overlap and fragmentation among government programs or activities can be harbingers of unnecessary duplication. Reducing or eliminating duplication, overlap, or fragmentation could potentially save billions of taxpayer dollars annually and help agencies provide more efficient and effective services." President Obama also addressed this issue in budget requests for 2012 and in his State of the Union Address this year where he suggested consolidating and reorganizing the federal government to make America more competitive. This bill would further address overlap and unnecessary duplication by also requiring the following: a listing of other programs within the federal government with duplicative or overlapping missions and services; the latest performance reviews for the program, including the metrics used to review the program; the latest improper payment rate for the program, including fraudulent payments; and the total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients. This information would be updated annually and posted on-line, along with recommendations from the agency to consolidate duplicative and overlapping programs, eliminate waste and inefficiency, and terminate lower priority, outdated and unnecessary programs. Other original co-sponsors of the bill include Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Jim DeMint (R-SC), Mark Begich (D-AK), John McCain (R-AZ), Rand Paul (R-KY), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Daniel Coats (R-IN), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Dean Heller (R-NV) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT). Additional co-sponsors include Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), and Senators John Thune (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Mike Lee (R-R-UT), John Boozman (R-AR), John Hoeven (R-ND), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John Cornyn (R-TX), David Vitter (R-LA), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Pat Toomey (R-PA), James Risch (R-ID), Roger Wicker (R-MS), James Inhofe (R-OK), John Barrasso (R-WY), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA).
12.07.2011	12.07.11 Senator Burr Introduces Bill Aimed at Designating Haqqani Network as Terrorist Organization WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Haqqani Network Terrorist Designation Act, a bill requiring a report from the Secretary of State regarding the designation of the Haqqani Network as a terrorist organization. Although they have been behind numerous attacks on civilians and U.S. and coalition forces, the Haqqani Network is not currently designated as a terrorist organization. "The Haqqanis are a violent extremist group who have perpetrated deadly attacks on U.S. forces and innocent Afghan civilians, used murder as an intimidation tactic against the Afghan people, and employed suicide attacks with deadly effectiveness," Senator Burr said. "Their size, resources, experience, and well organized execution of attacks makes them an extremely dangerous group, and they deserve to be classified as a terrorist organization. This designation would allow us to more aggressively pursue them as well as limit the ability of foreign governments to provide them with aid and assistance." A recent report released by the non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) identified the Haqqani Network as one of the most dangerous groups of insurgents battling U.S. forces in Afghanistan and highlighted recent highly-visible, destructive attacks on civilians, including children, U.S. military installations, and the U.S. embassy in Kabul. Since 2008, six top officials within the network, including the group's overall leader, Sirajuddin Haqqani, have been classified as terrorists, but that designation does not currently extend to the group as a whole despite their role in terrorist activity and attacks. The Haqqani Network is the most lethal component of the Taliban and has collaborative relations with Al-Qa'ida. It is also reported that the Haqqani Network benefits from a close relationship with Pakistan's Inter-Service Intelligence Agency. By designating a group as a terrorist organization, the United States is able to more effectively limit their financial, property, and travel interests. The designation not only stigmatizes the group within the international community, but also deters financial support, increases public awareness of the group and their activities, and conveys America's concern about the named organization to foreign governments. This bill would require the Secretary of State to submit a report to Congress on whether the Haqqani Network meets the criteria for designation as a terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Naturalization Act. If the Secretary of State determines that they should not be classified as a terrorist network, this bill requires a detailed justification as to what criteria has not been met. Cosponsors of the Haqqani Terrorist Designation Act include Feinstein (D-CA), Chambliss (R-GA), Coats (R-IN), Blunt (R-MO), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Warner (D-VA), Inhofe (R-OK), Graham (R-SC), Corker (R-TN), and Kirk (R-IL).
12.06.2011	12.06.11 Sens. Murray, Burr Ask VA Inspector General to Launch Investigation into Mental Health Care Wait Times As veterans continue to take their own lives at unprecedented rates, top Democrat and Republican on Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee call for inquiry after evidence of long wait times for appointments, questions over bookkeeping practices, and dissatisf (Washington, D.C.) - Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Richard Burr (R-NC), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, asked the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Inspector General to begin a formal audit of mental health care wait times at the VA. The call for action comes after a series of Senate hearings raised questions around the time it takes for veterans to receive an initial appointment and whether VA facilities are accurately reporting mental health care accessibility. "We write to request that your office conduct an audit of how accurately wait times for mental health services are recorded for both the initial visits and the follow-up appointments and determine if wait time data VA collects represent an accurate depiction of veterans' ability to access those services," the Senators wrote. "In addition, we ask that your office evaluate whether VA is accurately and completely reporting the data they collect." The Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee has held two hearings this year on VA mental health accessibility. At the first hearing on July 14th the Committee heard the first-hand stories of two service members, who even after attempting to take their own lives, had appointments postponed and difficulties cutting through the red tape in order to get care.Then, just last week, the Committee heard from a VA psychologist and mental health care coordinator who testified about delays in providing mental health care treatment, including care for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). That hearing also raised questions on whether VA providers where using techniques to ensure initial mental health care appointments fall within the VA's required 14 day window, without providing true access to care at those appointments. A survey of VA mental health providers requested by Senator Murray showed dramatically different results from the waiting time data that VA reports. Senator Murray also called VA's Inspector General, George Opfer to reiterate the importance of this investigation and the high priority she places on attaining accurate and complete mental health care wait time data from the VA. At the Committee hearing last week, the VA witnesses said the Department would cooperate fully with the investigation requested by Senators Murray and Burr. The full text of the Senators' letter follows: December 6, 2011 The Honorable George J. Opfer Inspector General Department of Veterans Affairs 801 I Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20001 Dear Mr. Opfer, We continue to hear from veterans about long wait times for VA mental health services. For that reason, the Committee held a hearing last week to discuss wait times and access to mental health care. While we understand that VA is in the midst of implementing new actions which build on the continuing transformation of mental health services to improve veterans' access to care, the Committee cannot properly evaluate the implementation unless provided with accurate information. We write to request that your office conduct an audit of how accurately wait times for mental health services are recorded for both the initial visits and the follow-up appointments and determine if wait time data VA collects represent an accurate depiction of the veterans' ability to access those services. In addition, we ask that your office evaluate whether VA is accurately and completely reporting the data they collect. We have many questions about the overall implementation of mental health services at VA, but the most important is whether or not veterans can access the mental health care they need in a timely manner. Our request would build upon your previous work regarding wait lists for mental health care. At the Committee's recent hearing we requested that the Department cooperate fully with this audit, and they have agreed to do so. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important request. We appreciate your work to ensure our nation's veterans are provided high quality care and timely services at VA and look forward to your report.
12.01.2011	12.01.11 Senators Enzi, Coburn, Burr, and Isakson Mark World AIDS Day with Call to Action WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), Ranking Member of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, joined with Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK), Richard Burr (R-NC), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) to send a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius with a call to continue the fight against HIV/AIDS both at home and overseas. The letter, sent in advance of World AIDS Day, reflects on progress that has been made against HIV/AIDS over the past three decades, particularly the most recent findings of the National Institutes of Health funded study that treatment can prevent transmission of HIV. The senators noted that the overwhelmingly positive results from this study lend even greater weight to the innovative focus on treatment of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the critical importance of the treatment focus of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program. The senators applauded the strong statement made by Secretary Clinton in announcing the Administration's goal of an AIDS-free generation. "We look forward to updated PEPFAR treatment goals and additional information on how the Administration plans to fulfill its commitment to an AIDS-free generation,"wrote the Senators. "We also look forward to working with you to find a solution to eliminate the ADAP [AIDS Drug Assistance Program] waiting lists here in the United States." Observed yearly on December 1, World AIDS Day is dedicated to raising awareness with respect to the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
11.22.2011	11.22.11 Senator Burr Returns from Trip to Afghanistan Washington, D.C. - On Tuesday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr returned from a trip to Afghanistan where he was fulfilling his role as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence to meet with officials on the ground and learn first hand about the progress being made there. He met with senior Afghan and U.S. officials who provided updates on the security situation in the region.
11.16.2011	11.16.11 Senator Burr Introduces ABLE Act to Help Families of Children With Disabilities Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act along with Senator Casey (D-PA), Congressman Crenshaw (R-FL), and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). The ABLE Act would assist parents of disabled children, who often face difficulties preparing for the long-term expenses for their child, by expanding the use of 529 education savings accounts to help cover disability expenses.Currently, 529 accounts can be used to save for a child's college education tax-free. "Families of individuals with disabilities often face overwhelming financial burdens associated with the expensive costs of healthcare, education, housing and transportation," Burr said. "Currently, families can save for their children's education through tax-favored 529 education savings accounts, but parents of disabled children do not have access to the same federal and state tax benefits to save for their child's upcoming long-term expenses. By allowing families to use 529 education accounts for disability-related expenses, this bill will make it easier for parents of disabled individuals to invest in their child's future, thereby opening the door to a world of opportunities." By encouraging and assisting families and individuals to save money for their children's future, the ABLE Act will enhance the quality of life of individuals with disabilities and make it easier for them to maintain their health and independence as they age. These savings accounts will facilitate parents' access to quality health care that fits their child's individual needs. The ABLE Act will also enable parents to invest in special education programs that might otherwise be too costly. In addition, as children with disabilities grow, they will have finances saved to invest in housing as well as employment training, making it easier for them to be self-sufficient. The ABLE Act is supported by the National Down Syndrome Society, Autism Speaks, The Arc, Collaborations to Promote Self Determination, the National Disability Institute and the National Fragile X Foundation.
11.15.2011	11.15.11 Menendez, Reid and Burr Introduce Fully Paid For NAT GAS Act Bill Promotes Cleaner, Domestically Fueled Natural Gas Vehicles WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) announced the introduction of the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions (NAT GAS) Act of 2011, legislation that would boost domestic production of vehicles that run on clean natural gas. The bill would extend tax credits for natural gas vehicles and building refueling infrastructure, and be fully paid for by a temporary user fee on natural gas used as a vehicle fuel. "Natural gas is cheap and abundant here in America. Instead of exporting this fuel abroad we should be using it right here to displace oil," said Menendez. "This bipartisan bill will create jobs, help lower transportation costs, lower pollution in urban areas, make us more energy secure, and do so without adding one dime to the deficit." "Creating clean-energy jobs and reducing our dependence on foreign oil is an economic and national security imperative," said Majority Leader Reid. "We cannot afford to continue spending hundreds of billions of dollars a year to buy oil from foreign countries, many of which are unfriendly to the United States. This bill will create over one million jobs by accelerating the development of clean alternative vehicles and fuels here at home, and make our nation more secure." "This bill will increase our nation's energy independence and help free us from our over-reliance on foreign oil," said Richard Burr (R-NC). "Energy independence plays a vital role in America's national security, and this bill represents a step in the right direction towards decreasing our dependence on imported energy sources." Currently there are nearly 14 million natural gas vehicles in the world, but only about 117,000 in the United States. [EIA, 2011] It is estimated that the NAT GAS Act of 2011 will jumpstart the industry and in ten years add over 700,000 NGVs to our roads. In addition it is estimated that the bill will displace over 20 billion gallons of fuel and create over 1 million direct and indirect jobs. NATURAL GAS IS PLENTIFUL North America's natural gas resources discoveries have increased by more than 1,800 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) over the past three years, bringing the total natural gas resource base to more than 3,000 Tcf. With U.S. natural gas demand at about 23.5 Tcf per year, this resource could supply current consumption for over 100 years. [Fueling North America's Energy Future, p. ES-4] NATURAL GAS IS CHEAP At the pump, on average, CNG sells for $2.33 per gasoline gallon equivalent while gasoline sells for $3.46 [DOE Clean Cities Price Report, p. 3]. LNG, which competes primarily with diesel fuel, currently is selling for $2.25 per diesel gallon equivalent while diesel sells for $3.81 per gallon. [Id., p. 6 n.6] WE HAVE TO DECIDE: DO WE USE IT HERE OR EXPORT IT? If we do not use our natural gas here in America, it will be exported abroad, for other's benefit. The price of natural gas internationally is significantly higher than it is here in the United States. As a result one facility recently received a permit to export natural gas and four more U.S. facilities are following suit. [Testimony of Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oil & Natural Gas Mr. Chris Smith, 11/8/11] We can use that natural gas here in the United States to displace oil or we can export it, so other countries can improve their own energy security and clean their air. ###
11.10.2011	11.10.11 Senators Burr, Harkin, Enzi and Casey Introduce Bill to Better Prepare Nation for the Threat of Pandemics or Bioterror Attacks WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) along with Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA), Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act Reauthorization of 2011, a bipartisan effort to ensure that our nation is prepared to respond to a wide range of medical and public health emergencies, whether naturally occurring or the result of a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attack. As a result of the passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA) of 2006, the federal government, in partnership with state and local governments, took significant steps to strengthen our nation's medical and public health preparedness and response capabilities. While we are better prepared today than we were five and ten years ago, the H1N1 pandemic and other emergencies at home and abroad underscore the need to maximize America's resilience to the full range of threats. Based on the lessons learned over the past five years, this reauthorization makes targeted enhancements to existing preparedness and response programs and authorities. "The threats facing our nation are serious and we must address them accordingly. The American people expect us to do all that we can to prevent an attack and, if one should occur, be fully prepared to respond, including having safe and effective medical countermeasures readily available. While key progress has been made since PAHPA was signed into law, more work remains to be done," Senator Burr said. "This legislation redoubles our efforts to protect the American people by strengthening our existing programs and making targeted improvements in areas in which we know we must do better, including ensuring that our nation's medical countermeasure enterprise reflects and is prepared to respond to modern-day threats." "This reauthorization builds on a record of bipartisan cooperation that has strengthened our ability to respond to medical and public health emergencies over the past decade," said Harkin, who is Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. "Applying lessons we've learned during the past few years, this bill enhances existing programs and authorities by ensuring that the needs of at-risk populations, in particular individuals with disabilities, are met when preparing for public health emergencies such as pandemic flu or threats from chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear agents, whether naturally-occurring or man-made." "We have made tremendous progress in strengthening our nation's medical and public health preparedness and response capabilities in recent years, but more needs to be done," said Senator Enzi. "The provisions in this bill address lessons learned and make targeted improvements to strengthen our nation's ability to prepare for and respond to a range of public health emergencies. This legislation helps keep Americans safe by ensuring that we have a clear strategy for medical and public health preparedness and a response for all potential threats." "America faces a complex variety of hazards and threats, but this bill ensures that we continue to build our defenses against and increase our preparation for naturally occurring health emergencies or terrorist attacks," said Senator Casey. "This legislation will ensure our nation's resiliency is as robust as possible, making Pennsylvania's cities and towns safer." This reauthorization strengthens national preparedness for and responses to medical and public health emergencies and disasters, optimizes state and local all-hazards preparedness and response efforts and collaboration, enhances medical countermeasure activities, and reauthorizes key medical and public health programs, including the Strategic National Stockpile and the BioShield Special Reserve Fund. Additional information regarding this bill can be found here. In addition to legislation reauthorizing PAHPA, Senators Burr, Harkin, Enzi, and Casey also introduced the Medical Surge Capacity Act to enable the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to better target and issue waivers under Section 1135 of the Social Security Act. This legislation will help optimize hospitals' responses to emerging medical needs arising from a public health or national emergency. More information on this legislation can be found here. Senators Mikulski (D-MD), Alexander (R-TN), Liebermann (I-CT), Collins (R-ME), Hagan (D-NC), and Roberts (R-KS) are also co-sponsors of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act Reauthorization of 2011. Senators Mikulski, Alexander and Roberts are co-sponsoring the Medical Surge Capacity Act as well.
11.10.2011	11.10.11 Senator Burr's Veterans Day Statement Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today issued the following statement honoring our nation's veterans: "As North Carolinians, we are proud to claim many of our country's servicemen and women, active and retired, as our own. In addition to serving our country and defending the freedoms we hold so dear, they are our neighbors, friends, parents, children, co-workers, and siblings. "This Veterans Day, we thank them for their dedication, we commemorate their service, and we remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice. We also send our thoughts and prayers out to those men and women in uniform currently on duty here at home, on watch at sea, on post in countries across the globe and in harm's way. "Our veterans have endured the pain of being separated from their families and loved ones, the trials of repeated deployments, and the harsh realities of combat. They have done so quietly and professionally for generation after generation. Veterans Day is more than a day to commemorate the service of America's defenders; it also serves as a reminder of all that we owe them as a nation. "Those who have fought and sacrificed return home forever changed by their experience. Some carry the obvious physical wounds of conflict, while others return home without the same sense of belonging in their communities. As time passes and the memories of past and current wars recede in our minds, we must realize that for the men and women who bore the burden of war on the battlefield, invisible scars and stress of service can often be more difficult to treat than physical wounds. We must remind ourselves that their toughest days of rehabilitation and re-integration may often lie ahead and that it is our duty as citizens to provide these men and women and their families with the respect and compassion they deserve."
11.10.2011	11.10.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Burr Announces Events for November 11 - 14, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Davie and Durham counties between November 11 - 14, 2011. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Friday, November 11 8:00 AM Senator Burr to attend Veterans Breakfast & Golf Tournament Main Club House Bermuda Run Country Club 324 Bermuda Run Drive Bermuda Run, NC Monday, November 14 11:00 AM Senator Burr to attend the Medicago, Inc. Opening Ceremony Medicago, Inc. 7 Triangle Durham, NC
10.31.2011	10.31.11 Senator Burr Announces Event for November 1, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Wake county on Tuesday, November 1. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Tuesday, November 1 9:00 AM Senator Burr to deliver keynote address at the Building a Culture of Innovation Through Education Event McKimmon Center North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC
10.25.2011	10.25.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for October 24 – 28, 2011 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Caldwell, McDowell, Henderson, Transylvania, Buncombe, Orange, Wake, Harnett, Cumberland and Forsyth counties, as well as the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York, between October 24 - 28, 2011. Monday, October 24 10:30 AM Senator Burr to speak with students at Hibriten High School Hibriten High School 1350 Panthers Trail Lenoir, NC 1:15 PM Senator Burr to speak with students at McDowell High School McDowell High School 600 McDowell High Drive Marion, NC 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit FIRST at Blue Ridge, Inc. FIRST at Blue Ridge, Inc. 32 Knox Road Ridgecrest, NC 6:30 PM Senator Burr to speak at Buncombe County Farm Bureau Annual Meeting WNC AG Center 1301 Fanning Bridge Road Fletcher, NC Tuesday, October 25 10:00 AM Senator Burr to speak with students at West Henderson High School West Henderson High School 3600 Haywood Road Hendersonville, NC 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at Rotary of Brevard Meeting The Quarry 14 S. Gaston Street Brevard, NC 2:00 PM Senator Burr to speak with students at Brevard High School Brevard High School 609 N. Country Club Road Brevard, NC 4:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Blue Ridge Community Health Building Opening Blue Ridge Community Health Services, Inc. 2579 Chimney Rock Road Hendersonville, NC Wednesday, October 26 10:30 AM Senator Burr to speak with students at Carrboro High School Carrboro High School 201 Rock Haven Road Carrboro, NC 12:00 PM Senator Burr to tour Genetic Medicine Building at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC 2:15 PM Senator Burr to present the Gold and Silver Congressional Award Talley Student Center North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 3:45 PM Senator Burr to tour Saab Barracuda Saab Barracuda LLC 608 East McNeill Street Lillington, NC 5:30 PM Senator Burr will speak to the Fayetteville-Lafayette Rotary Club Cliff's at Highland Country Club Highland Country Club 105 Fairway Drive Fayetteville, NC Thursday, October 27 12:30 PM Senator Burr to attend West Point Military Academy Board of Visitors Meeting United States Military Academy West Point, NY Friday, October 28 10:00 AM Senator Burr to visit RockTenn, Inc. RockTenn, Inc. 5900 Grassy Creek Blvd. Winston-Salem, NC 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to Reynolda Rotary Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum 2825 University Parkway Winston-Salem, NC
10.24.2011	10.24.11 U.S. Senator Richard Burr Delivers Weekly Republican Address ‘Some in, including the President, are suggesting that we simply spend more money. We’ve already tried that - it did not spur job growth then, and it won’t now.’ WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Richard Burr released the following weekly Republican address on Saturday, October 22, 2011. Audio of the address is available here. Video of the addressis available here. You can download the address here. Full transcript of Senator Burr's Address: "Good morning. I'm Senator Richard Burr from North Carolina, and I'm honored to speak with you today. "For 32 straight months now, unemployment in this country has been over 8%. Thirty-two months - that's a national record. It's also a clear indictment of the way we've handled the 23 million Americans looking for full-time employment. "Some in Washington, including the President, are suggesting that we simply spend more money. We've already tried that - it did not spur job growth then, and it won't now. "The American people realize that this is not about how much money Washington can spend. It's about getting government out of the way and creating the climate for growth and jobs. "This means listening to the American people and passing common-sense legislation that makes the rules that govern job-creating investments more predictable. Businesses are not going to hire if they can't anticipate what new tax or federal regulation is going to hit them next. "Congress should lead by example and get the nation's fiscal house in order. It starts with better stewardship of taxpayer dollars. The government of the future has to be smaller and less expensive if we want the prosperity of the American people to win out. "The President has even ignored the suggestions of his own commission. Rather than implement even a single one of the strategic reforms and investments suggested by Simpson-Bowles, we continue to ignore our fiscal problems and focus only on spending more money and expanding the size of the federal government. "This lack of fiscal discipline is unsustainable and cannot continue - you know it, and I know it. The longer we kick the can down the road, the more difficult it will be to address our real problems and spur real job growth. "Fortunately, there is an alternative to the President's approach. While some in Washington are focused on creating more government jobs, Republicans want to drive job creation in the private sector. We have a jobs proposal that would: 1. Simplify and stabilize the tax code 2. Rein in government regulations 3. Cap spending and reduce budget deficits 4. Propose common sense healthcare solutions 5. Encourage domestic energy development 6. Create a competitive workforce, and 7. Increase exports "The American people deserve a debate on these issues. "Our proposal is simple, and it makes it easier for businesses to thrive, grow, and hire. We will simplify the tax code so that businesses can more readily predict their expenses and increase their competitiveness in a global economy. "We'll stop over-regulation at the federal level to ensure stability that businesses will not have to worry about the next burdensome regulation lurking around the corner. We'll lower federal spending and work towards a balanced budget amendment to restore the confidence in our government and our economy. We'll replace Obamacare with common-sense reforms that actually lower the cost of health care for all Americans. We'll increase America's energy independence by promoting increased oil and gas exploration and innovation in the field of renewable energy sources, driving down our reliance on energy imported from around the world. We will provide the tools needed for workers to succeed in the 21st century, and it starts with making sure our education system provides the foundational knowledge needed by tomorrow's workforce. We know that better schools and better workforce training, mean better jobs. "And, we'll promote free and fair trade to provide American businesses with opportunities to expand into new markets and remain competitive in the global marketplace, and hire workers to meet the increased demands of their goods and services. "Despite ideological differences, many of these proposals - such as tax reform, regulatory reform, and increased trade opportunities - have the support of Republicans and Democrats. "There is bipartisan agreement on the need to fundamentally reform our tax code to make it simpler, more fair, and more predictable for all Americans and job creators. "The American people are hurting, and our economy is in grave danger. It's time for Congress to focus on the American people and not how difficult change might be. "It's time stop playing games and to get on with the serious business that the American people expect from us. It's time to fundamentally reform the obstacles to job creation and economic growth. It's time we pursue common-sense solutions that make America more competitive and put our nation back on the right track. "This place that some call America and that we call home is the greatest country in the world. We should never forget the principles that made us great and will keep us great. "Thanks for listening. God bless this great country."
10.20.2011	10.20.11 Burr Joins Bipartisan Effort to Make Medicare Secondary Payer Program More Efficient, Save Taxpayer Dollars Bill Makes Common Sense Reforms to Medicare’s Reimbursement Rules to make it easier for the program to collect from Third Party Payers WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Rob Portman (R-Ohio) are leading a bipartisan effort that includes U.S. Senators Ben Nelson (D- Neb.) and Richard Burr (R-N.C.) to make the Medicare Secondary Payer (MSP) Program more efficient and cost effective to taxpayers. The Strengthening Medicare and Repaying Taxpayers (SMART) Act will speed up the rate by which Medicare and its beneficiaries are reimbursed for costs that should be borne by another party. "Streamlining third party payment fixes some of the bureaucratic requirements that often stand in the way of Medicare being reimbursed for services that they are not supposed to pay for," Wyden said. "By making the process more efficient, Medicare will be repaid more quickly and more accurately than before and the repayment process will work the way it was designed to work. An easier repayment process is not just good for Medicare and taxpayers, but also for the beneficiary who should be able to settle their claim more quickly." "I am pleased to introduce the SMART Act because it will help strengthen and protect Medicare by ensuring greater reliability and efficiency of Medicare reimbursements," said Portman. "With Washington's sky high debt and deficit, we need to do everything we can to ensure that entitlement programs such as Medicare are cost effective and working for the very people they were designed to help." "The current Medicare Secondary Payment Program is a bureaucratic mess that often leaves everyone involved in the settlement process - from Medicare beneficiaries to small businesses - unsatisfied," Sen. Nelson said. "The SMART Act will help the program run more efficiently and reduce unneeded uncertainty for all the parties involved." "The lack of transparency and inefficiencies with the current Medicare Secondary Payer process illustrates how Washington's red-tape and regulatory uncertainty can adversely impact seniors and businesses," Burr said. "In order to get our economy back on track, we simply cannot afford to continue to waste taxpayer dollars by perpetuating the inefficiencies of the current Medicare Secondary Payer system. We can and must do a better job for the seniors and stakeholders depending upon this program to be as transparent and efficient as possible." Under the MSP program, if a Medicare beneficiary is injured by a third party and a settlement is pursued as a result of that injury, the third party is responsible for paying for the individual's medical expenses. If Medicare, now the "secondary payer," pays any of the costs associated with the injury, it is entitled to reimbursement. Several problems exist with the reimbursement process under this scenario. Under current law, Medicare does not have a way to disclose the MSP amount before settlement, creating unnecessary uncertainty that makes it hard to settle cases. Second, there are times when Medicare spends more money pursuing an MSP payment than they actually end up receiving in payment. MSP reporting requirements also require beneficiaries to submit sensitive personal information to the settlement company, causing privacy concerns. Finally, there is no clear statute of limitations on all MSP claims. The SMART Act will address these issues by creating a process that allows CMS to disclose the MSP amount before settlement so it can be factored into the settlement; requiring Medicare to no longer pursue MSP claims that do not cover their own expenses; directing Medicare to establish an alternative method of identifying individuals so that they don't have to provide sensitive personal information; and setting a three-year statute of limitations for most claims.
10.13.2011	10.13.11 Burr, Webb Introduce Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act Legislation would end arbitrary process that strips veterans of rights WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Jim Webb (D-VA), along with 10 other cosponsors, introduced legislation that would end the arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans and other Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) beneficiaries of their Second Amendment rights. Currently, veterans who have a fiduciary appointed to act on their behalf are deemed "mentally defective" and are reported to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), a system which prevents them from being able to purchase firearms in the United States. The Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act would require a judicial authority to determine that VA beneficiaries pose a danger to themselves or others before they can be added to the FBI's NICS. "Taking away a Constitutional right is a serious action, and veterans should be afforded the same due process under the law as all other American citizens," Burr said. "This legislation would protect the rights of veterans and their families by ensuring that only a proper judicial authority is able to determine who is referred to NICS. Our veterans took an oath to uphold the Constitution and they deserve to enjoy the rights they fought so hard to protect." "As a matter of fairness, a veteran should be permitted to purchase a firearm under the same conditions as every other American," said Senator Webb. "This bipartisan bill ensures consistent guidelines are used for reporting citizens to the FBI, and that no veteran is needlessly stripped of their Second Amendment rights." The Federal Gun Control Act prohibits certain individuals who have been deemed a "mental defective" from purchasing a firearm. Currently, around 114,000 people who are receiving VA benefits have been reported to NICS, stripping them of their constitutional rights simply because VA appointed a fiduciary to act on their behalf. A fiduciary is assigned to handle disability compensation, pensions, survivors' compensation, and other VA payments on behalf of a veteran, surviving spouse, dependent child, or dependent parent. VA's review process for assigning a fiduciary is meant to determine one's ability to manage VA-provided cash assistance. The process does not determine whether they are a danger to themselves or others.
10.13.2011	10.13.11 Burr, Klobuchar Bennet Introduce Legislation to Boost Medical Device Innovation Bill would reduce regulatory burdens that unnecessarily delay new medical devices from reaching the market U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today introduced legislation that would help boost medical innovation by reducing regulatory burdens that unnecessarily delay beneficial new medical products from reaching patients. The Medical Device Regulatory Improvement Act would help streamline the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) regulation of medical devices to continue to spur innovation and help get new, lifesaving products to the market quicker without compromising consumer safety. "In order to provide American patients access to the most cutting-edge medical therapies and advances, we need to fix what is broken at the FDA by restoring regulatory certainty and predictability," Senator Burr said. "By streamlining and ensuring the least burdensome approach to FDA's regulation of medical devices, we not only take a key step toward restoring America's leadership in the research and development of life-saving products, but uphold our promise to patients in North Carolina and around our nation to continue innovating on their behalf." Over the past few years the FDA's regulation has become increasingly longer and more difficult, delaying, and in some cases preventing, new and innovative devices from reaching the market. Recent studies showed that the average time to approve a 510(k) application has increased 43% from the 2003-2007 period to 2010, and the average time to approve a premarket approval (PMA) application has increased 75%. A recent survey of venture capitalist life sciences investors showed that almost 40% of investors are more likely to shift their operations and investments overseas because of FDA's regulatory challenges. The senators' legislation would help streamline the FDA's regulation of medical devices by clarifying FDA's current least burdensome requirements. These provisions will ensure that when making regulatory decisions on medical devices, FDA focuses only on the relevant information during the decision-making process, considers appropriate alternatives to reduce the time, effort, and cost of reaching regulatory decisions, and uses all reasonable mechanisms to reduce review times when making these decisions. Because current conflicts of interest restrictions are overly stringent, the FDA is having difficulty finding qualified experts to serve on advisory committees, which can contribute to unnecessary delays for patients. In response to this problem, the legislation would restore the appropriate balance to conflicts of interest requirements by requiring the FDA to be subject to the same conflicts of interest requirements as the rest of the federal government. Finally, the legislation would also direct the FDA to contract with an outside entity to conduct a thorough review of the management and regulatory processes at the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health, including the impact on medical device innovation.
10.03.2011	10.03.11 Senator Burr Statement on EPA Decision and Its Impact on Veterans and Civilians Exposed to Toxic Water at Camp Lejeune Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's decision to classify the trichloroethylene (TCE), a chemical found in solvents to remove grease from metal, as a known human carcinogen. "Yesterday, the EPA made official what we have expected for some time now, that TCE, a chemical that was present in the drinking water at Camp Lejeune for decades, is a known human carcinogen and represents a grave health risk to those exposed to it. This designation, which raises questions about the National Academy of Science's 2009 review of TCE and PCE at Camp Lejeune that the Navy and Marine Corps have cited in their literature to the affected community, is of the utmost significance as it will further inform veterans and their family members, who may have contracted various forms of cancer as a result of exposure to this chemical, of the risk associated with it. I am hopeful additional awareness will spur them to get the medical assessment and treatment they need. "While this is an important step towards providing care for those who suffer adverse health effects resulting from exposure to toxic water at Camp Lejeune, we still have a long way to go. These men and women were poisoned through no fault of their own decades ago, yet many of them are still shouldering the burden of care or waiting too long to get the benefits they are due. Much progress has been made to address this problem, but we must take further steps to ensure that this population of veterans and civilians are aware of these developments so that they can receive the care and benefits they deserve." An estimated 750,000 people may have been exposed to probable and known human carcinogens in the base's water supply between the 1950s and 1980s. This is the largest recorded environmental incident on a domestic Department of Defense installation.
09.16.2011	09.16.11 Senator Burr Introduces Bill to Improve Education by Empowering Local Communities Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) announced that he has introduced the Empowering Local Educational Decision Making Act of 2011, a bill designed to improve America's education system by giving states andlocal communities the flexibility they need to meet the unique and varied educational needs of their students. "Providing our students with a quality education is essential to their future success and to the continued competitiveness of our nation in the global economy," Senator Burr said."However, it has been proven that a one-size-fits-all approach handed down from the federal government does not work.We must empower those most familiar with the needs of a particular community to make these imperative educational decisions, and we must enable them to design and fund locally-determined programs and initiatives that meet their unique needs to provide an education that is in the best interest of their students." State and local school districts, not Washington, D.C., are the best makers of educational decisions. Unfortunately, in the last few decades, the federal government, believing it knew best, has exploded the number of small, categorical education programs in K-12 education. Almost every year, yet another new program has been created in pursuit of the newest educational rave. And with each of these new programs, local school districts have lost flexible federal funding sources that allow them and not the latest fad to determine how best to allocate federal resources to meet the unique and specific needs of the individual students in their schools. The Empowering Local Educational Decision Making Act of 2011 streamlines 59 programs into 2 flexible foundational block grants - the Fund for the Improvement of Teaching and Learning and the Safe and Healthy Students Block Grant. To provide additional funding flexibility to State and local school districts, under the Empowering Local Educational Decision Making Act of 2011 districts will also be able to transfer up to 100% of their allocations under the Fund for the Improvement of Teaching and Learning and the Safe and Healthy Students Block Grant between the two programs or into Title I, Part A. Fund for the Improvement of Teaching and Learning Consolidates 34 programs into ONE flexible, formula-driven Fund for the Improvement of Teaching and Learning to fund locally-determined needs and initiatives related to— Increasing the capacity of local school districts, schools, teachers, and principals to provide a well-rounded and complete education for all students. Increasing the number of teachers and principals who are effective in increasing student academic achievement. Ensuring that low-income students are served by effective teachers and principals and have access to a high-quality instructional program in the core academic subjects . Safe and Healthy Students Block Grant Consolidates 25 programs into ONE flexible, formula-driven Safe and Healthy Students Block Grant to fund locally-determined needs and initiatives for improving students' safety, health, and well-being during and after the school day by— Increasing the capacity of local school districts, schools, and local communities to create safe, healthy, supportive, and drug-free environments. Carrying out programs designed to improve school safety and promote students' physical and mental health well-being, healthy eating and nutrition, and physical fitness. Preventing and reducing substance abuse, school violence, and bullying. Strengthening parent and community engagement to ensure a healthy, safe, and supportive school environment.
09.15.2011	09.15.11 BIPARTISAN GROUP OF 34 SENATORS SUPPORTS & ENCOURAGES Senate coalition includes 17 Republicans, 16 Democrats & 1 Independent WASHINGTON - A bipartisan coalition of 34 U.S. Senators announced today that they will encourage and support the members of the congressional "super committee" in efforts to seek the broadest possible bipartisan agreement to address the nation's deficits and debt. As part of the August compromise on raising the debt ceiling, a bipartisan, bicameral 12-member panel was appointed to identify $1.5 trillion in budget savings over ten years in addition to the nearly $1 trillion in savings included in the debt ceiling legislation. However, the Bipartisan Policy Center's Debt Reduction Task Force ("Domenici-Rivlin"), the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform ("Simpson-Bowles"), and the Senate's own "Gang of Six" independently concluded that any meaningful and comprehensive solution should achieve at least $4 trillion in debt reduction if it is to reassure the financial markets, restore public confidence and create the foundation for long-term economic growth. The bipartisan group of 34 senators, representing more than one-third of the members of the U.S. Senate, agreed to the following statement of principles, which will be shared with members of the Joint Special Committee: "As a bipartisan group of Senators, we will encourage and support the Super Committee in fulfilling its mission.We are here to support a deficit reduction package consistent with the following principles that should: Include enough deficit reduction to stabilize the debt as a share of the economy, and put the debt on a downward path, and provide fiscal certainty. We believe a reasonable target is at least $4 trillion, including previously enacted deficit measures.This will send the right message to the financial markets. Use the established, bipartisan debt and deficit reduction frameworks as a starting point for discussions. Focus on the major parts of the budget and include long-term entitlement reforms and pro-growth tax reform. Be structured to grow the economy in the short, medium and long-term. · Work to include the American public and the business community in a broader discussion about the breadth of the issues, challenges and opportunities facing us." The 34 participants include the following members of the U.S. Senate: Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN)
09.12.2011	09.12.11 Ten Years After: Reflecting On September 11, 2001 This year, like every year that has passed since, our nation reflects back on the horrific attacks that cost the lives of 2,977 men, women, and children in New York, Pennsylvania, and at the Pentagon, and on the brave men and women who have laid their lives down since then in defense of the freedoms and security we so often take for granted. These coordinated attacks on our nation had such a profound impact on our society and our world view that we now look at our recent history in two different phases, pre-9/11 and post-9/11. They made us more aware of the threats that we face as a nation, and they woke us up to the cold reality that the things we hold most dear as Americans are the very things that make us a target for terrorism. However, these attacks and our collective response had a much deeper, more profound impact than that - they brought us together in a way that nothing else has since the Second World War, and they underscored the same spirit that has characterized our nation and its citizens since America's founding. It is this spirit that truly sets America apart and makes us unique. It is a sense of perseverance and determination, a loyalty to our fellow Americans, and the willingness to risk it all for what we believe in. This spirit was forged in the fires of revolution, grew strong in the face of adversity, and has defined the character of our nation since its inception. These attacks were not just directed at buildings and people. They were meant to hit us at our core, to attack our very way of life and everything we stand for. They sought to instill fear and doubt in us, but they failed. They sought to intimidate us and disrupt our communities, but they failed. What they did was bind us together in a unified front to stand up to these injustices and push forward with the same spirit and character that the terrorists sought to destroy. We stood together, and in one collective voice said, "We will not be intimidated, and we will not be held down. We are Americans, and we stand together." Ten years have passed since that fateful September morning, and not an American alive at the time will ever forget the horrors of that day. Those whom we lost will remain in our hearts forever, and images of the aftermath are permanently engrained in our memories. We came together to cope with a national tragedy and were reminded not of those things that divide us, but of those things that unify us. In the wake of tragedy, we found hope. Though a decade has passed since then, I urge all Americans to look back to the days and weeks that followed 9/11 and remember that sense of unity and patriotism that was so prevalent. Though it is our diversity and differences that, in part, make us such a great and unique nation, it is our common bonds that make us Americans. Let us put our differences aside and once again focus on those things that bind us, for we are all Americans, and we will forever be one nation under God.
09.08.2011	09.08.11 Senator Burr Statement on President’s Speech U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement regarding President Obama's address to a joint session of Congress and the nation: "I fully intend to consider all of the suggestions the President laid out in his speech tonight before Congress. Those that achieve the threshold of stability and predictability businesses have insisted they need to invest in job creation will live for a more extensive debate in Congress. Those that are just a repackaged temporary program should be and will be discarded. This is not about how much Washington can spend, but how we create a common-sense partnership with businesses to grow our economy. "The best thing Washington can do for our economy is to cut through the red tape that is hampering innovation and reform the punitive tax code that is stifling job growth."
08.28.2011	08.28.11 Senator Burr Statement on Hurricane Irene While the worst of Hurricane Irene has passed through North Carolina, we are now faced with the challenge of dealing with the destruction and damage the storm left in its wake.My staff and I remain in constant contact with officials at the local, state, and federal levels to assess the damage that was done and find ways to help those who were affected by the storm.I encourage all North Carolinians in need of assistance to contact my offices in Winston-Salem, Wimington, or Rocky Mount to let us know what we can do to help.My staff and I will do all we can to provide aid to the individuals and communities who were impacted by Hurricane Irene.I also encourage anyone needing assistance to register with FEMA once their operations are up and running. Many counties in the eastern part of our state continue to face widespread power outages, flooding, and wind damage.I am confident in the ability of our local, state, and federal responders to address community needs, and I know the strength of our citizens and communities will have everyone back on their feet soon.I urge all North Carolinians to heed the advice and requests of local officials and stay off roads to allow emergency responders to get to affected areas. For more information on disaster relief, visit http://www.nc211.org/ for finding community health and human service resources or dial 2-1-1 or 1-888-892-1162.
08.20.2011	08.20.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 22-24 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Durham, Rockingham, Surry, Yadkin and Guilford counties between August 22 and August 24, 2011. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing David Ward at david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Monday, August 22 12:30 PMSenator Burr to visit ITT Technical Institute 3518 Westgate Drive, Suite 150 Durham, NC 27707 2:00 PM Senator Burr to attend 1st Annual AgDevelopment Forum Sheraton Imperial - Research Triangle Park 4700 Emperor Boulevard Durham, NC 27703 4:00 PM Senator Burr to tour Endacea (Not Open to Press) First Flight Venture Center 2 Davis Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 6:00 PM Senator Burr to attend AgDevelopment Forum Dinner Sheraton Imperial - Research Triangle Park 4700 Emperor Boulevard Durham, NC 27703 Tuesday, August 23 9:30 AMSenator Burr to visit Amcor Tobacco Packaging 124 North Technology Drive Reidsville, NC 27320 12:00 PMSenator Burr to speak to the Mount Airy Rotary Club Cross Creek Country Club 1129 Green Hill Road Mount Airy, NC 27030 2:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Unifi Recycling Plant 1032 Unifi Industrial Road Yadkinville, NC 27055 Wednesday, August 248:00 AMSenator Burr to attend 2011 North Carolina Aerospace Supplier Conference Sheraton Greensboro - Joseph S. Koury Convention CenterI mperial Ballroom 3121 High Point Road Greensboro, NC 274071 12:30 PMSenator Burr to meet with the Greensboro Rotary Club Atrium at the Greensboro Coliseum 1921 West Lee Street Greensboro, NC 27403 2:00 PMSenator Burr to visit United Healthcare 3803 North Elm Street Greensboro, NC
08.18.2011	08.18.11 Senator Burr Announces 2011 North Carolina Aerospace Supplier Conference WASHINGTON, D.C. - On August 24, 2011, Senator Richard Burr will host the 2011 North Carolina Aerospace Supplier Conference along with the North Carolina Military Business Center and the North Carolina Aerospace Association in Greensboro, North Carolina. The purpose of this event is to promote and grow our aerospace industry by bringing together North Carolina users, purchasers, manufacturers, and suppliers through education, networking and growth opportunities as well as sharing "best practices" in order to provide job growth, financial stability, and a stronger industry in our state. To learn more about the Aerospace Supplier Conference including information about participating and what companies will be represented there, click here. WHO Senator Richard Burr WHAT 2011 North Carolina Aerospace Supplier Conference WHEN Wednesday, August 24, 2011 WHERE SHERATON GREENSBORO - JOSEPH S. KOURY CONVENTION CENTER Imperial Ballroom 3121 High Point Road at I-40 Greensboro, NC 27407
08.12.2011	08.12.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for August 16-19, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Forsyth, Moore, McDowell, Mitchell, Jackson, Haywood, and Buncombe counties between August 16 and August 19, 2011. Tuesday, August 16 2:00 PM Senator Burr to present Purple Heart Medal and Distinguished Flying Cross to Frank Hibbs Office of Senator Richard Burr 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC 27104 Wednesday, August 17 9:00 AMSenator Burr to speak at Raleigh Chamber of Commerce's Summer Leadership Conference Pinehurst LLC Carolina Vista Drive Pinehurst, NC 28374 2:00 PMSenator Burr to visit and tour RDM Industrial Electronics, Inc. 850 Harmony Grove Rd Nebo, NC 28761 4:00 PM Senator Burr to visit with veterans participating in Project Healing Waters Rivers Edge Outfitters 280 Oak Avenue Spruce Pine, NC 28777 Thursday, August 18 9:00 AMSenator Burr to visit Jackson Paper 152 West Main Street Sylva, NC 28779-2928 10:30 AMSenator Burr to visit Western Carolina University Western Carolina University 1 University Drive Cullowhee, NC 28723 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to Haywood Chamber of Commerce 28 Walnut Street Waynesville, NC 28786 2:30 PMSenator Burr to visit Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. 275 Aiken Road Asheville, NC 28804 4:30 PMSenator Burr to attend Asheville Chamber of Commerce Metro Economy Outlook Reception Diana Wortham Theatre 2 South Pack Square Asheville, NC 28801 Friday, August 19 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Asheville Buncombe Community Christian Ministries Veterans' Restoration Quarters ABCCM Veterans' Restoration Quarters 1329 Tunnel Road Asheville, NC 28805 10:30 AMSenator Burr to visit Charles George VA Medical Center in Oteen Charles George VA Medical Center 1100 Tunnel Road Asheville, NC 28805
08.08.2011	08.08.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Events for August 8-11 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Cumberland, New Hanover, Pender, Harnett, and Wake counties between August 8 and August 11, 2011.Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-2971 or by emailing David Ward at david_ward@burr.senate.gov. Monday, August 8 7:00 PMSenator Burr to attend Defense Trade Show dinner McKellar's LodgeFort Bragg Fayetteville, NC Tuesday, August 9 8:00 AMSenator Burr to attend 10th annual Defense Trade Show Fayetteville Technical Community College Horace Sisk Gymnasium 2201 Hull Road Fayetteville, NC 28303 2:30 PMSenator Burr to visit and tour Chemtex USA Chemtex USA 1979 Eastwood Road Wilmington, NC 28403 4:30 PMSenator Burr to visit Wilmington Police Department 615 Bess Street Wilmington, NC 28401 Wednesday, August 10 8:00 AMSenator Burr to speak at Wilmington Industrial Development Breakfast 1739 Hewlett Drive Wilmington, NC 28405 10:00 AMSenator Burr to visit and tour GE Aviation 3901 Castle Hayne Road Wilmington, NC 12:00 PMSenator Burr to attend lunch with Four County Electric Membership 1822 Hwy. 53 West Burgaw, NC 28425 3:00 PMSenator Burr to visit and tour American Defense Systems, Inc. 420 McKinney Parkway Lillington, NC 27546 7:00 PMSenator Burr to attend Eagle Scout Ceremony Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints 6528 Johnson Pond Rd. Fuquay-Varina, NC 27526 Thursday, August 11 7:30 AMSenator Burr to Chamber of Commerce breakfast in Knightdale Knightdale Seafood & BBQ 706 Money Court Knightdale, NC 27545 10:00 AMSenator Burr to visit WakeMed WakeMed Center for Innovative Learning Raleigh Campus 3024 New Bern Avenue Raleigh, NC 27610 12:30 PMSenator Burr to speak to Apex Rotary Club Carrabbas 1201 Haddon Hall Drive Apex, NC 27502
08.04.2011	08.04.11 Senator Burr Announces 10th Annual Defense Trade Show On August 9, 2011, Senator Richard Burr will host the 10th annual Defense Trade Show in Fayetteville, North Carolina along with Senator Kay Hagan, Congressman Larry Kissell, the North Carolina Military Business Center, the North Carolina Defense Business Association, the Partnership for Defense Innovation, and the University of North Carolina (UNC) system. The Defense Trade Show connects North Carolina businesses with defense contractors and officials from the Department of Defense and educates them on the federal contracting process. North Carolina has the third largest military presence of any state in the country, and the state's economy has long benefitted from a productive relationship between the military and local businesses. To learn more about the Defense Trade Show including information about participating and what companies will be represented there, click here. WHO Senator Richard Burr WHAT 10th Annual Defense Trade Show WHEN Tuesday, August 9, 2011 WHERE Fayetteville Technical Community College Horace Sisk Gymnasium 2201 Hull Road Fayetteville, NC 28303
06.29.2011	06.29.11 Burr Bill to Care for Lejeune Vets and Family Members Approved by Veterans’ Affairs Committee Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, announced that a bill he introduced, the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act (S. 277), passed out of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs with bipartisan support. This legislation, which Senator Burr also introduced in the 111th Congress, would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care toveterans and their family members who have experienced adverse health effects as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. "We now have another shot at doing the right thing for the thousands of Navy and Marine veterans and their families who were harmed during their service to our country," Senator Burr said. "While we continue to seek more answers, we can minimize further suffering by allowing Lejeune veterans and their families to receive the care they need and deserve. I am pleased that this bill has cleared the committee, and I hope it will quickly move to the Senate floor for a vote." An estimated 750,000 people may have been exposed to probable and known human carcinogens in the base's water supply between the 1950s and 1980s. To date, this is the largest recorded environmental incident on a domestic Department of Defense installation. In addition to the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act, Senator Burr had two other provisions he sponsored that were voted favorably out of committee today as well. One will help VA maximize the use of the limited funding available for construction projects by properly allocating them where they are most needed. The other will allow veterans who file fully-developed disability claims to be compensated for a period up to one year prior to the date the claim was filed, so the veteran will not lose out on any benefits while collecting evidence and can receive a quicker decision from VA.
06.06.2011	06.06.11 Senator Burr Offers Thanks to D-Day Veterans Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, recognized the 67th anniversary of the D-Day invasion when Allied troops landed on the beaches of Normandy. These operations marked a turning point in World War Two and ultimately led to the end of German occupation across much of Europe. Sen. Richard Burr offered the following statement: "On June 6, 1944, tens of thousands of Americans and allied soldiers stormed the beaches of Normandy and fought the battles that liberated France. The sacrifices that those men and women made on D-Day and in the campaign that followed changed the course of history. "Today, we remember those whose lives were lost during that invasion and we honor those who survived. Please take a minute to thank a veteran that you know for his or her service to our country. They willingly and unselfishly put their lives on the line to protect our country and our freedom. "The legacy of the Greatest Generation has inspired and sustained the young men and women currently serving our country abroad.Today we also remember we still have work to do on behalf of all of our veterans who return home from the battlefield. We must remain unwavering in our commitment to provide for those who were fortunate enough to come home and who now face their own challenges as they continue to contributeto the success of this great nation."
05.31.2011	05.31.11 Senator Richard Burr remarks at Mt. Airy Memorial Day service Memorial Day Speech, May 30, 2011 Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am honored to be here with you today as we reflect on the service and sacrifice of our nation's servicemembers and veterans who have so selflessly given of themselves on behalf of our nation and our freedoms. But more than that, I am humbled - humbled by your service, your sacrifice, and your strength of spirit. Two years ago, I spent Memorial Day in Normandy, France. We visited the American Cemetery and walked the same beaches that sixty-seven years ago were the site of the largest and most memorable amphibious invasion in history. But the sand we walked on and the dunes we climbed looked a lot different than they did almost seven decades ago. We did not have to climb over the bodies of our fallen friends to reach dry land. We did not have to run across blood soaked sand or dodge enemy fire as we crossed the beach. We were able to visit the site and pay homage without distraction because of the brave men and women who came before us and paid the ultimate sacrifice for our security. Some of the men who actually participated in the D-Day invasion were present that day in 2009. Being in their company made me feel much like I do here with you today - proud of my country and the men and women who have fought to protect it and humbled by the service of American citizens who served, and some who died, so that we can all be here today. These were members of the Greatest Generation, my father's generation. They returned home from war to a grateful nation and helped build our country into what it is today. And while many walk with a cane or need a wheelchair, they still possess the quiet confidence and strong determination that helped them through the dark days of their youth in Europe and the Pacific. They fought a war that was much different from what today's men and women in uniform contend with, but their spirit of service and sacrifice lives on in their children and grandchildren who are involved in conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other places across the globe. The same sense of devotion that was present in the hearts of the men who stormed the beaches of Normandy exists in the hearts and minds of younger men and women who are serving as we speak. Not only are these most recent wars different, but so are the communities our youngest veterans return to after leaving active duty. Those who have returned from war are forever changed by their experience. Some of them are missing limbs, while others return without a true sense of belonging in their communities. For the ones who have made it back after devastating wounds, their experiences are not only life-altering for them, but also for their families. Memorial Day is an important reminder that much remains to be done on behalf of the most vulnerable warriors who need more than our passing sentiments and our good intentions. We must remind ourselves that their survival and success is not assured, and their toughest days of rehabilitation and re-integration often lie ahead. Today, and every day, let us honor and remember the heroes of all of our nation's wars, particularly those who did not make it home to lead full lives, and let us also renew our commitment to cherish and empower those who were fortunate enough to come home and who face their own challenges as they strive to contributeto the success of this great nation.
05.27.2011	05.27.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for May 30 – June 3 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Surry, Wake, Burke, Buncombe, and Henderson counties between May 30 and June 3. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, May 30 11:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at Mt. Airy Memorial Day Celebration War Memorial South Main Street Mt. Airy, NC Tuesday, May 31 1:15 PM Senator Burr to attend Congressional Award Ceremony at Apex High School Apex High School 1501 Laura Duncan Road Apex, NC 27502 Wednesday, June 1 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to Rotary Club of Morganton Community House 120 N. King St. Morganton, NC 2:00 PMSenator Burr to tour Kearfott Corporation 2858 US Highway 70W Black Mountain, NC 28711 4:00 PMSenator Burr to visit the Business Incubator program at Asheville-Buncombe Technical Community College Asheville-Buncombe Technical Community College Enka Site Small Business Center 1465 Sand Hill Road, Suite 1060 Candler, NC 28715 Thursday, June 2 9:00 AM Senator Burr to tour Meritor 1000 Rockwell Drive Fletcher, NC 28732 12:00 PMSenator Burr to speak to Rotary Club of Asheville Renaissance Hotel 31 Woodfin St. Asheville, NC 3:30 PMSenator Burr to attend investiture for the Honorable Max Cogburn, Jr. 100 Otis Street Asheville, NC
05.26.2011	05.26.11 Burr Cuts Wasteful Spending, Improves Efficiency by Combining Dept. of Labor and Commerce Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced a bill that would consolidate the Department of Labor and the Department of Commerce into a single, new agency called the Department of Commerce and the Workforce (DOCW). The bill would provide cost savings by combining duplicative functions and improve the quality of our country's economic policies by ensuring a consistent, coordinated approach. "The amount of money wasted annually on duplicative programs within the federal government is staggering," Senator Burr said. "In his State of the Union address this year, the president proposed merging and consolidating federal agencies, and this bill advances that proposal. This common-sense approach reduces duplication by combining offices with similar functions within these two agencies and would streamline our approach to comprehensive economic policy." By increasing the coordination of federal offices, the new merged DOCW will be better positioned to promote economic growth and workforce protections. The Department would preserve the independent functions of both agencies and would not make changes to specific policy. In addition to combining Commerce and Labor programs and offices with substantially similar missions, the bill would combine the support and administrative offices of the two agencies and would take the recommendations from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to eliminate ineffective or duplicative programs. The bill will also implement President Obama's bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform's recommendation to place the Small Business Administration (SBA) within the Department of Commerce and will transfer the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) from Commerce to the Department of the Interior. Current co-sponsors of the legislation are Senators Inhofe (R-OK), Wicker (R-MS), Thune (R-SD), Lee (R-UT), McCain (R-AZ), and Coats (R-IN).
05.20.2011	05.20.11 A Message From Senator Richard Burr May 20, 2011 Yesterday, I joined with Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) in introducing a bill that reforms Medicaid to improve care for patients and empower states with the tools they need toinnovate and create a model that best fits their needs. Currently, Medicaid, a program rife with issues of waste and abuse, promises coverage to patients, but this promise does not result in access - 40% of physicians deny access to patients in this program. Additionally, states do not have the flexibility they need to make basic improvements to their programs. Our bill, the Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act, is an important first step in reforming our nation's health care system and fixing our broken entitlement programs.It repeals the new health care law and the maintenance of effort requirement contained in the stimulus and frees states from bureaucratic red tape so they can make reforms that will improve care for patients. States have a proven track record of being able to adopt innovative solutions to improve patient care. By giving them more control over their own Medicaid programs, we are allowing states to innovate and better meet their needs and, most importantly, the health care needs of patients. To read more about this bill, click here. In other news from Washington this week, I attended a hearing of the HELP Committee on Tuesday where we discussed the need to improve America's preparedness and response capabilities for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats. Whether these threats occur naturally, like pandemic flu, or are the result of an intentional attack, we must be prepared to quickly and effectively respond to all threats, including having necessary, life-saving medical countermeasures. To view a video of my opening statement at this hearing, click here. In 2006, the Senate passed the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA), a bill I authored that achieves these goals by allowing, among other things, for the rapid development of drugs and vaccines to protect against threats such as pandemic flu and bioterrorism. This bill will be up for reauthorization soon, and I hope my colleagues will act quickly to ensure that we are as prepared as we can be to protect the American people from these threats. On Wednesday, I had the honor to meet with over one hundred World War II veterans from the Triad who traveled to Washington on a trip put on by the Honor Flight Network. As many of you who have been subscribers of this newsletter for a while know, Honor Flight is a group that flies World War II veterans to Washington, DC free of charge to visit the memorial that honors their service. I am deeply grateful to these men and women for their service, their love of country, and their strength of character. Also on Wednesday, I attended a hearing of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs where I made opening remarks about the importance of improving collaboration between the Department of Defense and VA to help improve the lives of our nation's wounded warriors and their families as they transition from active duty to veteran status and civilian life. While steps have been made to improve coordination between the two agencies, issues still remain. We need to take a serious look at whether these programs, as currently structured, are the best way to meet the needs of wounded servicemembers and their families. I will continue to work with my fellow committee members, veterans, and VA and DoD to ensure that wounded servicemembers get the care, services, and benefits they earned without hassle or delay. A video of my opening remarks can be found here. Finally, I had the opportunity to meet with a remarkable North Carolinian, Karen Caruso, who was in Washington this week to be honored at the 2011 U.S. Small Business Administration's Small Business Week. Karen is the CEO of Mind Your Business, Inc., a company that provides background checks and pre-employment screenings for individual and corporate clients. After starting her business with just one employee in her basement, Mind Your Business, Inc., now has fifteen full-time employees, several hundred sub-contractors, and provides services to over 1,500 clients worldwide. It is entrepreneurs like Karen who, even in difficult economic times, keep our economy afloat. Congratulations, Karen, keep up the good work. Stay tuned to my website, as well as my Facebook and Twitter pages, as the Senatedebates important issues includingbudget reforms in the coming weeks. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Richard Burr Facebook:www.facebook.com/SenatorRichardBurr Twitter:@SenatorBurr
05.19.2011	05.19.11 Senators Burr, Coburn Introduce Bill to Reform and Strengthen Medicaid Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), and Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) introduced the Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act, a bill that will reform the Medicaid program to improve care for patients and empower states with the flexibility and financial predictability that they need to strengthen their programs. "This bill is an important first step in reforming our nation's health care system and fixing our broken entitlement programs," Senator Burr said. "States have a proven track record of being able to adopt innovative solutions to improve patient care. By giving them more control over their own Medicaid programs, we are allowing states to innovate and better meet their needs and, most importantly, the health care needs of their patients." "If entitlement programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security are not reformed they won't be able to provide promised benefits.It is that simple.Seniors and low-income Americans need Washington to produce solutions, not attack ads.Our broken Medicaid program shows that access to a government health care program does not guarantee access to health care.Our bill will help fix a program that denies patients' access to 40 percent of doctors," Dr. Coburn said. "The path to fiscal sustainability begins with the reform of our nation's entitlement programs," said Senator Chambliss. "The Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act will give states such as Georgia the flexibility to design programs specifically tailored to support our most vulnerable beneficiaries and allow them the control to effectively plan for future budgets decisions." Currently, Medicaid, a program rife with issues of waste and abuse, promises coverage to patients, but this promise does not result in access - 40% of physicians deny access to patients in this program. Additionally, states do not have the needed flexibility to make basic improvements to their programs, and are often forced to make drastic cuts to provider reimbursements, which further limit patients' access to care. The Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act frees states from bureaucratic red tape and empowers them to immediately make reforms that will improve care for patients. It repeals the new health care law and the maintenance of effort requirement contained in the stimulus, and transitions from the current FMAP model to a health grants model that provides medical assistance for low-income Americans and long-term care services and supports for low-income elderly and disabled individuals. The bill maintains the current FMAP model for acute care for dual eligible and disabled individuals; however, states are given the flexibility to enroll these patients into managed care.
05.11.2011	05.11.11 Burr Selected to Join Senate Finance Committee Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) released the following statement regarding joining the Senate Finance Committee: "I am honored to be joining the Senate Finance Committee, and I thank Senator McConnell and the Republican Conference for allowing me the opportunity to serve on this important committee. "There is no aspect of our daily lives that is not touched by the laws and regulations that fall under the committee's jurisdiction, from the tax code and our nation's trade laws to health care and retirement security. Regrettably, many of these laws and regulations have become so burdensome and complex that they are choking our nation's economy, hampering job creation, and drowning our country in debt. I look forward to working with my committee colleagues to address these critical challenges which I believe are among the most important of our time. "While taking the seat on Finance requires me to leave my seat on the Energy Committee, this new committee assignment will only serve to complement my current seat on the Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee, particularly on health care and retirement security issues. I have long made these issues a priority, and look forward to bringing my ideas and experience to the table at Finance. "Given the broad scope of Finance's jurisdiction, and the critical importance of these issues to the day-to-day lives of all North Carolinians and all Americans, I look forward to the challenges that this new opportunity brings."
05.10.2011	05.10.11 Burr Bill Holds VA Accountable for Money Saved through Competitive U.S. Senator Richard Burr, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today introduced a bill that holds the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) accountable for funds saved through competitive bidding for major VA medical facilities. The legislation mandates that VA obtain congressional approval to expand the scope of a previously authorized project if it wishes to use funds saved as a result of a favorable bidding environment. "This is common sense and fair legislation that will apply any bid savings toward projects that are already on the waiting list," said Senator Burr. "Congress can help VA maximize the use of the limited funding available for construction projects by properly allocating them where they are most needed." Senator Burr has previously implemented oversight over these unobligated funds. Last year, he offered an amendment to the Veterans Benefits Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-275) that would require VA to use any savings realized by a favorable bid climate to only be obligated for major medical facilities authorized in that fiscal year or the previous fiscal year.
05.06.2011	05.06.11 Senator Burr Recognizes “Military Spouse Appreciation Day” Washington D.C - Senator Burr, Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, honored "Military Spouse Appreciation Day" today by calling on Americans across the country to thank the spouses of our service members for their service. "Many of us will never fully understand the difficulties that military spouses and their families endure on our behalf. Their selflessness and courage demonstrate the power of their patriotism. I hope that today every American takes the opportunity to thank military spouses in their communities. We must acknowledge their contributions and recognize the sacrifices they make so that their loved one can continue to fight to preserve our freedoms," Senator Burr said today. Yesterday, Senator Burr attended a Reserve Officers Association reception honoring Bianca Strzalkowski from Fuquary-Varina, N.C., as the Military Spouse of the Year. The spouses at that event, along with the representatives from the Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard represent the millions of past and present military spouses who continue to show resilience in a wartime environment, dedicating their lives and families to the service of a grateful nation and give back to their communities. The Senate agreed unanimously to the resolution sponsored by Senator Burr to set this day aside to honor military spouses (S. Res.160). For more about Military Spouse Appreciation Day, please click here. Clarification: The 4th Annual Military Spouse of the Year Luncheon was sponsored by Military Spouse Magazine. The event was held at the Reserve Officers Association.
05.05.2011	05.05.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr to Deliver Commencement Address at St. Andrews Presbyterian College U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Laurinburg on Saturday to speak at St. Andrews Presbyterian College's commencement ceremony. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. WHO U.S. Senator Richard Burr WHAT St. Andrews Presbyterian College WHEN 9:00 AM Saturday, May 7, 2011 WHERE 1700 Dogwood Mile Lauringburg, NC 28352
05.05.2011	05.05.11 Burr Bill Cuts Spending, Increases Efficiency by Combining Dept. of Energy and EPA Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced a bill that would consolidate the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency into a single, new agency called the Department of Energy and Environment (DOEE). The bill would provide cost savings by combining duplicative functions while improving the administration of energy and environmental policies by ensuring a coordinated approach. "The amount of money wasted annually on duplicative programs within the federal government is staggering," Senator Burr said. "This common-sense approach will reduce duplicative and wasteful functions across these two agencies and streamline our approach to a comprehensive, coordinated energy and environmental policy." The DOEE would combine support and administrative offices of the two agencies and would take the recommendations from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to eliminate ineffective or duplicative programs. Core functions of each agency would be maintained. By implementing suggestions made by GAO and the President's 2012 budget request, this bill could result in over $3 billion in savings in the next year alone. Current co-sponsors of the legislation are: Jim Demint (R-SC), Mike Enzi (R-WY), John Thune (R-SD), John McCain (R-AZ), Dan Coats (R-IN), Richard Shelby (R-AL), John Barasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), David Vitter (R-LA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Mike Lee (R-UT).
05.04.2011	05.04.11 Burr Resolution Designates “Military Spouse Appreciation Day” Military spouses to be honored on May 6, 2011 Washington D.C. - The Senate yesterday passed a resolution sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, to honor the families of our nation's Armed Forces. The Senate unanimously agreed to declare Friday, May 6, 2011, as "Military Spouse Appreciation Day." "This Friday is an opportunity to make sure that the spouses of the men and women in our military know that their fellow citizens recognize the sacrifices they make and appreciate their valuable contributions. These spouses serve our country in unique ways and do so knowing that their loved ones may be in harm's way. The difficulty that they endure helps make our country stronger. Thank you to the men and women who support our servicemembers," Senator Richard Burr said today. The resolution, which is cosponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), specifically states that the Senate— (1) designates May 6, 2011, as ''Military Spouse Appreciation Day;'' (2) honors and recognizes the contributions made by spouses of members of the Armed Forces; and (3) encourages the people of the United States to observe ''Military Spouse Appreciation Day'' to promote awareness of the contributions of spouses of members of the Armed Forces and the importance of the role of military spouses in the lives of members of the Armed Forces and veterans. Sen. Burr has previously sponsored a similar resolution. As a Co-Chair of the Senate Military Family Caucus, Senator Burr has worked to lessen the hardship that military duty often creates for families. In February, Sen. Burr joined colleagues in introducing legislation that gives military servicemen and women and their families the ability to enroll in flexible spending accounts, which would allow them to set aside a portion of their pre-tax income to cover out-of-pocket child care and health care expenses. Currently, members of the military are not able to enjoy the same tax benefits that their civilian counterparts enjoy.
05.01.2011	05.01.11 Senator Burr Statement on the Death of Osama Bin Laden Tonight, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) released the following statement on the death of Osama Bin Laden: "The death of Osama Bin Laden marks the culmination of the greatest manhunt ever undertaken by American forces. This is a major development in our fight against terrorism and proves our resolve to hold accountable those who harm American citizens, but we must remain vigilant and not lose focus on the overall mission and our goal of eradicating terrorist threats. There still remains a dire threat posed by Bin Laden's followers and the seeds of hate he planted across the globe, and while we are immensely grateful for this victory, our work is far from over."
04.20.2011	04.20.11 Major Disaster Declation For North Carolina As a result of the devastation caused by storms that hit North Carolina recently, the President has issued a major disaster declaration prompting the release of federal aid to help individuals and communities recover from the severe storms, tornadoes and flooding that occurred on Saturday. For more information on this declaration and how to seek federal assistance, follow this link. <iframe width="200" height="300" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" frameborder="0" src="http://www.fema.gov/help/widgets/dagov.html"></iframe>
04.20.2011	04.20.11 FEMA Press Release: Notification of a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina (FEMA-1969-DR) State of North Carolina Federal Disaster Declaration Fact Sheet April 19, 2011 On April 19, 2011, President Obama issued a major disaster declaration for the State of North Carolina, triggering the release of Federal funds to help individuals and communities recover from the severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding that occurred on April 16, 2011.Details of the disaster declaration and assistance programs are as follows: Declaration Number:FEMA-1969-DR Incident:Severe Storms, Tornadoes, and Flooding Incident Period:April 16, 2011 Federal Coordinating Officer:Michael Bolch National FCO ProgramIndividual Assistance:Assistance to individuals and households. Designated Counties:Bertie, Bladen, Cumberland, Halifax, Harnett, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Wake, and Wilson. Public Assistance:Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. Designated Counties:Bertie, Bladen, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Wake, and Wilson Counties for debris removal and emergency protective measures (Categories A and B), including direct Federal assistance, under the Public Assistance program. Hazard Mitigation:Assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Designated Counties:All counties in the State of North Carolina are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. OTHER:Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments. If you have any questions or need additional information on this Federal disaster declaration, please contact FEMA's Legislative Affairs Division at (202) 646-4500, FAX number (202) 646-3600.
04.20.2011	04.20.11 NC Delegation Supports NC Governor’s Request for Expedited Disaster Assistance Delegation today sent letters to President Obama and Secretary of Agriculture Vilsack urging immediate federal assistance for storm victims. U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Kay R. Hagan and Representatives Walter Jones, Sue Myrick, Mike McIntyre, David Price, Brad Miller, G.K. Butterfield, Patrick McHenry, LarryKisselland ReneeEllmerstoday sent letters asking the Administration to support federal disaster assistance requests made by Governor Perdue in the wake of Saturday's devastating storms. The letters to President Obama and Department of Agriculture SecretaryVilsackcan be foundhereandhere. Governor Perdue requested that the President declare an expedited major disaster for 18 counties in North Carolina that were impacted by the tornadoes, high winds, flooding and severe storms that hit North Carolina on Saturday, April 16. If approved, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) would provide low-interest loans or grants to assist with recovery efforts, including home and business repairs. "We respectfully request that you swiftly make the necessary declaration so the affected counties and regions of North Carolina can quickly and fully recover from this devastating storm system," wrote the NC Delegation. In addition, the delegation sent a letter to SecretaryVilsackurging him to declare an expedited Secretarial disaster designation in the same 18 counties so that North Carolina producers can receive USDA assistance, including emergency low-interest loans for farmers who were impacted by the storms. "As farmers were beginning to plant their crops, multiple tornadoes tore through several medium and large metropolitan areas in addition to rural parts of North Carolina. Tragically, 22 North Carolinians were killed and over 100 more people sustained serious injuries. More than 1,000 homes, farms and businesses were destroyed or damaged, which will cost millions of dollars to repair and rebuild," wrote the delegation. "It is critical that North Carolina producers in the affected counties receive immediate assistance from USDA so that they can quickly and fully recover from this devastating storm. We stand ready to help in any way that we can." The 18 counties are: Bertie, Bladen, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford,Hoke, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Pitt, Roberson, Sampson, Wake and Wilson.In addition to these counties, additional counties may need to be added to the declaration as the Farm Service Agency (FSA) continues to assess production and physical losses suffered by producers. The delegation also requested that families affected by this storm be given additional time to complete their federal income tax returns. "Moreover, the Disaster Declaration should include Individual Assistance to Households and Families to ensure that taxpayers impacted by the devastating storms receive filing and payment relief from the IRS while they put their lives back together," they wrote. The Honorable Thomas Vilsack Secretary of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Room 200-A Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack:We are writing in support of Governor Beverly Perdue's request for an expedited Secretarial major disaster designation for counties in the State of North Carolina affected by the tornadoes, high winds, flooding, and severe storms on April 16, 2011. This designation will provide critical disaster assistance resources such as low-interest FSA emergency loans to eligible producers. Additional counties may need to be added to the declaration as the Farm Service Agency (FSA) continues to assess production and physical losses suffered by producers. As many farmers were beginning to plant their crops, multiple tornadoes tore through North Carolina. Tragically, 22 North Carolinians were killed and over 100 more people sustained serious injuries. More than 1,000 homes, farms and businesses were destroyed or damaged, which will cost millions of dollars to repair and rebuild. Many producers have lost equipment barns, silos and other agriculture buildings that are vital to their operations. A large amount of debris has spread across the area, which will make it hard for farmers to access their fields to harvest or plant their crops on time. The harvest of the wheat crop, which is in its final growth stages, may be impacted by the debris in the fields and will require extra labor to remove. The heavy amount of rainfall is likely to delay the upcoming corn and cotton planting. It is critical that North Carolina producers in the affected counties receive immediate assistance from USDA so that they can quickly and fully recover from this devastating storm. We stand ready to help in any way that we can. Thank you in advance for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely, Senator Richard BurrSenator Kay Hagan Representative David PriceRepresentative Walter Jones Representative Mike McIntyreRepresentative Brad Miller Representative G.K. ButterfieldRepresentative Renee Ellmers The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing in support of North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue's request for a major Disaster Declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. The request is in response to the devastating damage and destruction from tornadoes, high winds, flooding, and severe storms in North Carolina on April 16. The storm impacted Bertie, Bladen, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Johnston, Lee, Onslow, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Wake and Wilson counties. There is a possibility that other counties may need to be added later. Multiple tornadoes tore through several medium and large metropolitan areas in addition to rural parts of North Carolina. Tragically, 22 North Carolinians were killed and over 100 more sustained serious injuries. More than 1,000 homes and businesses were destroyed or damaged, which will cost millions of dollars to rebuild and repair. Moreover, the Disaster Declaration should include Individual Assistance to Households and Families to ensure that taxpayers impacted by the devastating storms receive filing and payment relief from the IRS while they put there lives back together. In addition, many of the counties affected by the tornadoes experienced severe flooding last year during Tropical Storm Nicole, and a decade ago during Hurricane Floyd. Consequently, North Carolina desperately needs federal assistance to repair and rebuild the damage and recover from the storms. We respectfully request that you swiftly make the necessary declaration so the affected counties and regions of North Carolina can quickly and fully recover from this devastating storm system. Thank you in advance for your prompt consideration of this critical request. Sincerely, Senator Richard BurrSenator Kay Hagan Representative David PriceRepresentative Walter Jones Representative Mike McIntyreRepresentative Brad Miller Representative G.K. ButterfieldRepresentative Renee Ellmers
04.20.2011	04.20.11 Senator Burr Announces Schedule for April 20 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Johnston, Wake, and Lee counties to speak with residents and small businesses in the area affected by Saturday's storms. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Wednesday, April 20 8:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at the Clayton Chamber Breakfast 307 E Main Street Clayton, NC 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Micro and Kenly 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at the Cary Chamber Lunch 307 North Academy Street Cary, NC 1:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Holly Springs 4:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Sanford
04.15.2011	04.15.11 Senator Burr Announces Schedule for April 19 U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Wake, Johnston, Cumberland, and Sampson counties to speak with residents and small businesses in the area affected by Saturday's storms. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Tuesday, April 19 9:30 AMSenator Burr to visit Shaw University 11:00 AMSenator Burr to speak at the National Federation of Small Businesses (NFIB) Event Wachovia Center 150 Fayetteville St. Raleigh, NC 27601 12:30 PMSenator Burr to speak at Garner Rotary Lunch 2100 Buffaloe Road Garner, NC 2:00 PMSenator Burr to visit Benson 3:00 PMSenator Burr to visit Dunn 4:15 PMSenator Burr to visit Fayetteville 6:00 PMSenator Burr to speak at the Sampson County Friends of Agriculture Banquet Sampson County Agri-Exposition Center 414 Warsaw Rd Clinton NC 28328
04.13.2011	04.13.11 Senator Burr Calls for Common-Sense Solutions to Help Address Veterans Unemployment At a hearing on Capitol Hill today, Burr cites GAO report on overlap and lack of effectiveness among programs U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today attended a hearing focused on unemployment among veterans and cited the duplicative and often ineffective efforts of the federal government to assist them in finding jobs. "Despite the good will and hard work that many people are putting into helping veterans find employment, it is becoming increasingly apparent that many of the programs already in place are not working. We need to figure out which programs are working well, which are not, and how reducing overlap among agencies can make these services more effective and efficient. These common-sense steps could save taxpayers' money and make long-term improvements in services for our nation's veterans. "We must also take immediate steps to bring down the staggering unemployment rate with simple solutions such as providing tax incentives to employers who hire veterans and making sure the skills and qualifications veterans develop during service are easily translatable into the civilian world," Senator Burr said. Senator Burr was an original co-sponsor of the Veterans Employment Transition Act of 2011, which was introduced in January 2011. This bill would provide tax incentives to employers who hire veterans who have recently separated from the military. A recent report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) explained that, in fiscal year 2009, the federal government spent about $18 billion on 47 separate employment and training programs run by nine different agencies. All but three of those programs overlapped with at least one other program. Five programs that specifically targeted veterans provided seven similar types of services. As the GAO noted in its report, this overlap among programs could interfere with individuals seeking services and frustrate employers. Additionally, most of these programs - including those serving veterans - had not completed studies to see whether positive employment outcomes result from their services, rather than from other factors. Three programs, including the Transition Assistance Program that service men and women may complete when transitioning out of the military, did not track any outcome measures. The unemployment rate for young veterans reached over 27% in February 2011. Currently, nine percent of the entire veteran population is unemployed. To read the testimony from the hearing "Veterans' Employment: Improving the Transition from the Battlefield to the Workforce" or to view a list of the witnesses, please click here.
04.12.2011	04.12.11 Senator Burr Welcomes Expanded Veterans Clinic to Wilmington Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today welcomed a new, expanded health clinic designed to serve veterans living in Wilmington, NC, and its surrounding area. Specialty services provided at the new community based outpatient clinic (CBOC) include optometry, audiology, podiatry, and neurology along with primary care and mental health services. "This clinic has been a long time coming. The veterans of Wilmington and the surrounding areas will soon have access to a wide variety of services and higher-quality care. I will continue to keep an eye on this clinic's progress to make sure it comes together in a responsible and timely manner," said Senator Richard Burr. The new clinic will provide almost eight times the clinical space of the previous location, according to information provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Expanded services also include mental health, social work, women's health, and telehealth capabilities, along with ample parking. The new clinic is scheduled to open in 2013.
04.08.2011	04.08.11 Burr Statement on Budget Negotiations WASHINGTON, D.C. - Tonight, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) released the following statement in regards to the budget negotiations to cut government spending and prevent a government shutdown. "I applaud my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to make real spending cuts and prevent a government shutdown. Our national debt has surpassed $14 trillion and we currently borrow 41 cents of every dollar we spend. We cannot continue to ignore the severity of our financial situation and the need to spur private sector job growth in order to get our country back on the right track. "
04.05.2011	04.05.11 Burr Praises Passage of Legislation to Repeal Burdensome Health Care Law Provision on Small Businesses Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) voted to repeal the provision of the new health care law requiring all businesses to submit 1099 tax forms for everybusiness transaction greater than $600 in a given year. The Senate overwhelmingly passed this legislation by a vote of 87-12. "The last thing North Carolina small businesses need right now are even more burdensome provisions that hinder their growth and ability to hire new employees," Burr said. "Unfortunately, the onerous 1099 IRS reporting requirement is but one of many job-killing mandates under the new health care law. While repeal of this mandate is an important step for small businesses across our nation, we must continue to work to fully repeal this law and replace it with commonsense health care reforms." The Senate today passed H.R.4, a bill passed last month by the House of Representatives that does not increase federal spending or add to our nation's debt. Senator Burr is a cosponsor of the Senate version of this legislation, S. 359, the Comprehensive 1099 Taxpayer Protection and Repayment of Exchange Subsidy Overpayments Act of 2011.
03.31.2011	03.31.11 Senator Burr: “Time to Control Spending and Reduce Our Debt” Burr joins fellow Republicans in introducing Balanced Budget Amendment WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) joined Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky) and his Republican colleagues in introducing a consensus Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. This amendment would bring much-needed fiscal discipline back to Washington and would put America on the path to a balanced budget within five years of ratification. "Our national debt has surpassed the $14 trillion mark, and unlike American families across the country who are making tough decisions in order to make ends meet, Washington continues to spend money we do not have to the detriment of future generations," Burr said. "It is time for Congress to change its ways. I am proud to join with my colleagues in taking the necessary steps to control federal spending and reduced our debt." The Balanced Budget Amendment would: Require the President to submit to Congress a balanced budget that limits outlays to 18 percent of GDP. Require Congress to pass a balanced budget and limit federal outlays to 18 percent of GDP. Exceptions include: Both houses by a two-thirds vote can provide for a specific excess Both houses by a majority vote can provide for a specific excess during a declared war; Both houses by a three-fifths vote can provide for a specific excess for a fiscal year during a military conflict declared to be "an imminent and serious military threat to national security" and the excess be limited to "outlays...made necessary by the identified conflict." Require a two-thirds vote from both houses for any bill that raises taxes or otherwise "increases the statutory rate of any tax or the aggregate amount of revenue." Require three-fifths vote from both houses to increase the debt limit; Only a simple majority would be required during a time of declared war against a specific nation state. Become effective the fifth fiscal year after ratification.
03.30.2011	03.30.11 Burr Honors Vietnam Veterans Today Burr resolution designates March 30 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Washington D.C -Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today honored "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" today with the following remarks: "While we cannot right the wrong done to the men and women returning from Vietnam, today we have an opportunity to recognize their service and thank them for entering harm's way. While we remember the sacrifices these veterans made to preserve our freedom, we also honor the ultimate sacrifice made by their fallen comrades. Thank you to all of those who served in Vietnam, and belated welcome home. "American servicemen and women in Vietnam took a strong stand against a very powerful and very real threat of communism. What they accomplished has made an enormous impact on the world today - a world where people are fighting to secure and protect democracy in their own countries. "I encourage Americans across the country to take time today to honor the Vietnam veterans among our friends, family, and communities. What happened during the Vietnam War is a powerful reminder that we must continue to respect and welcome home American troops returning from war today. Never again should the nation disregard and denigrate a generation of veterans." Senator Burr introduced the resolution to designate March 30th as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" for the second consecutive year. To read the resolution, click here. Veterans, veterans' advocacy groups, local and state governments across the country are participating in this day by adopting similar resolutions and hosting events in their communities. American forces officially withdrew from Vietnam on March 30th 1973, according to the terms of the Treaty of Paris. American troops returned to a country divided in its opinions about the war. In total, more than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam.
03.17.2011	03.17.11 Burr Introduces Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), along with Senator Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), introduced the Public-Private Employee Retirement Act of 2011 to address long-term liabilities facing the federal government. The legislation would end the defined benefit pension portion of the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) for new federal government hires starting in 2013, leaving fully in place the Thrift Savings Plan with the current match (up to 5%) for both current and future federal workers. The bill would also apply to Members of Congress. "Right now, federal government workers receive far more generous retirement benefits than private sector employees. The cost to taxpayers of these benefits is unsustainable and we simply cannot afford it," said Burr. "We cannot ask taxpayers to continue to foot the bill for public employee benefits that are far more generous than their own." "The congressional pension plan currently in place only serves to foster political careerism and should have been frozen years ago. In addition to enjoying a better benefits package, federal workers generally earn up to 20 percent more than their private sector counterparts. When American families across the country are being asked to sacrifice in order to meet their basic needs, federal employees and members of Congress should not be the exception. Defined benefit pension plans are going belly-up across the nation because politicians and employers continue to make promises they cannot keep. Existing federal employees will be unaffected, and all federal employees would continue to enjoy a 401(k)-style pension plan with a very generous federal match. But the only responsible thing to do is stop making irresponsible commitments and forcing future generations to pick up the tab," said Dr. Coburn. Currently, federal workers enjoy both a defined benefit pension and a Thrift Savings Plan (equivalent to a 401(k)) with up to a 5% match, paid for by the taxpayers. The average private sector employee gets a 401(k) with a 3% employer match and no pension. Federal workers also continue to enjoy federal health care benefits (FEHBP) after they retire, a benefit that is becoming increasingly rare in the private sector. The FERS system is currently underfunded by nearly a billion dollars. The old federal pension system, the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), is underfunded by $673 billion. In the coming years, as more of the retirement burden falls on the FERS system, the required federal government contributions to FERS will skyrocket, especially in comparison to what federal workers will put into the system. In 2012, the federal government will contribute $22.2 billion to FERS. By 2065, those required contributions will rise to $239.5 billion, with the government paying out $415.3 billion in benefits. Current federal government employees and retirees would not be impacted by the changes in the Burr-Coburn bill.
03.15.2011	03.15.11 Burr Introduces Child Care Protection Act of 2011 Legislation requires comprehensive background checks for all child care providers WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with U.S. Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), introduced the Child Care Protection Act of 2011. This legislation requires comprehensive background checks for child care providers including state and federal fingerprint checks, sex offender registry checks, and a check of child abuse and neglect registries for all licensed, regulated, and registered child care providers. "When working parents enroll their children in child care they shouldn't have to worry that they might be dropping their child off to be cared for by someone who has been convicted of a violent crime," Burr said. "Current requirements for background checks do not meet parents' expectations, and most states fail to ensure that child care providers have undergone a complete and thorough background check. This legislation allows parents to be confident that their children are being taken care of by qualified individuals in a safe environment." Requirements for background checks vary greatly from state to state and only a handful of states require child care providers to complete a comprehensive background check. Although a recent survey found that 95% of parents with children under the age of 5 support background checks for child care providers, only 10 states currently conduct a full criminal background check that includes a fingerprint check of state and federal criminal records, a check of child abuse and neglect registries, and a check of the sex offender registry. The Child Care Protection Act of 2011 would require such comprehensive background checks for child care providers and require those background checks be repeated once every 5 years. More than 11 million children under age 5 are in some type of child care arrangement every week while their parents work. A parent survey conducted by the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies (NACCRRA) found that 85 percent of parents assumed that child care providers must have a background check to work with children.
03.10.2011	03.10.11 Sen. Burr Congratulates Max Cogburn on Confirmation to U.S. District Court Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the confirmation of Max Cogburn to serve as United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina. "Max Cogburn is an excellent choice to serve as District Judge for the Western District of our state, and I am pleased the Senate unanimously supported his confirmation today," Senator Burr said. "His vast experience - including serving as assistant U.S. attorney, chief assistant U.S. attorney, magistrate judge, and in private practice - makes him a well qualified nominee for this position. I appreciate the Senate Judiciary Committee acting swiftly to schedule a vote on this nominee. He will make an excellent addition to the Court."
03.09.2011	03.09.11 Burr Votes for Plan to Reduce Government Spending by $57 Billion WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Senate's failure to pass H.R. 1, the House-passed Continuing Resolution that would have funded the government through the end of the fiscal year and cut $57 billion from current spending levels. "I am disappointed that my Democratic colleagues are not taking our fiscal crisis seriously. I support the House-passed proposal that would cut $57 billion in government spending, and like most Americans I don't think it goes far enough to rein in our national debt. We cannot shy away from the fact that cutting spending is absolutely necessary to put us back on the track to fiscal sanity. We have to stop charging our children and grandchildren for our own excessive spending habits."
03.08.2011	03.08.11 Senate Declares March 30th as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Resolution Introduced by Senator Richard Burr Washington D.C - The U.S. Senate yesterday declared March 30th as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day," agreeing unanimously to a resolution introduced by Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. On March 30, 1973, all U.S. troops withdrew from Vietnam under the terms of the Treaty of Paris. This March 30th, the Senate has encouraged Americans across the country to recognize Vietnam veterans for their sacrifice and demonstrate a warm welcome to these soldiers who returned from war to a politically divided country. "I'm pleased that the Senate has agreed to set aside a day to give our Vietnam veterans a warm, long-overdue welcome home. I strongly encourage communities throughout North Carolina and across the country to observe this day with activities and events that honor these veterans for their service. It's time they receive the recognition they have earned and deserve. This day also provides our nation with an important teaching moment. Never again should our men and women serving in the armed forces receive the same treatment as those returning from Vietnam," said Senator Richard Burr. Senator Burr introduced the resolution for the second consecutive year on February 16, 2011. For Senator Burr's remarks on the introduction of the resolution, click here. The United States became involved in Vietnam because policy-makers believed that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia. The US Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam. On March 30, 1973, after many years of combat, all US troops withdrew. More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam. Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Thad Cochran (R-MS), James Inhofe (R-OK), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Mike Johanns (R-NE) co-sponsored the legislation.
03.03.2011	03.03.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Events for March 4 -5 WASHINGTON, D.C. - In the next two days, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will be speaking at the Ducks Unlimited Event in Raleigh and the opening of the Kernersville Medical Center. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Friday, March 4, 2011 6:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at Ducks Unlimited Event 9401 Glenwood Avenue Raleigh, North Carolina Saturday, March 5, 2011 6:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at the opening of the Kernersville Medical Center Kernersville Medical Center 1750 Kernersville Medical Parkway Kernersville, North Carolina
03.02.2011	03.02.11 Burr Bill Empowers American Families to Meet Daycare Needs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Mike Johanns (R-NE), introduced the Child and Dependent Care FSA Enhancement Act, a bill that strengthens dependent care flexible spending accounts (FSA) for American families by increasing the amount of pre-tax dollars that families can put into these accounts from $5,000 to $7,500. The bill will also index this new cap to inflation so that FSAs no longer erode in value over time as the cost of child care continues to increase. "As any working parent knows, finding affordable day care options can be very difficult under even the best circumstances. This bill is one way to help many American families afford daycare, whether it's for their kids or their elderly parents," Senator Burr said. "The cost of child care is increasing, and by increasing the amount Americans can put into an FSA and indexing it to inflation, we will help ensure that these accounts continue to be a meaningful option for families." "In this difficult economy, parents are having a harder and harder time affording the rising cost of child care. Despite longer hours away from home, families' incomes are just not keeping pace," Senator Gillibrand said. "This legislation will help ease the burden on working families, and help make child care more affordable." "This legislation gives working families greater flexibility and allows them to stretch their hard-earned dollars further as dependent care costs continue to increase," Senator Johanns said. "I'm pleased to support families across Nebraska and our nation by sponsoring this legislation." Dependent care FSAs currently allow employees to exclude $5,000 from their gross-income to help them cover the expenses associated with child care or adult dependent care. This exclusion from gross income allows families to save money on income and FICA taxes. However, since the $5,000 cap is not indexed to inflation, families are falling more and more behind to the rising costs of care. Increasing the amount that can be excluded and indexing it to inflation would allow families to stretch their hard-earned dollars even further and will ensure that this type of care remains an option for families in North Carolina and across the country. Currently, there are 458,857 children in North Carolina under the age of 6 needing child care as a result of working parents, and the average annual fees paid for full-time child care range from approximately $5,700 to over $8,500
02.28.2011	02.28.11 Burr Introduces North Korean Refugee Adoption Act Bill to directs the Secretary of State to develop a strategy for assisting stateless children from North Korea Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced the North Korean Refugee Adoption Act of 2011. The legislation would direct the Secretary of State to develop a comprehensive strategy on adoptions of North Korean orphans living outside of North Korea as refugees in other countries by American adoptive parents. "As a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Caucus, I remain committed to support legislation to improve international cooperation in inter-country adoptions," Burr said. "Many potential adoptive parents in North Carolina would welcome the opportunity to adopt a North Korean child.Developing a plan to help these children connect with loving families in the United States is something members on both sides of the aisle can agree upon." The North Korean government has long been one of the world's most brutal dictatorships with one a deplorable record on human rights. Every year, thousands of North Koreans who have fled the regime seek resettlement in neighboring countries. Oftentimes, legal complexities bar North Korean children from being adequately protected under the host country's laws leaving them with no rights and even vulnerable to child traffickers. This bill would create a plan to facilitate adoptions of eligible North Korean children and join them with American families willing to adopt them. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security should make every effort to facilitate the immediate care, family reunification, and, if necessary and appropriate, the adoption of any eligible North Korean children.
02.24.2011	02.24.11 Senator Burr Statement on the President's Announcement on the Defense of Marriage Act Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the President's announcement that he will not permit the Department of Justice to defend the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act: "Traditional marriage is a core value that has strengthened our nation, and it is a value that is protected by federal law. By ordering the Attorney General to stop defending federal law in court, the President is taking another step towards politicizing the Justice Department. It is the President's job to defend the laws of the land or pursue legislation in Congress to change them. The Administration is charting an irresponsible course with this decision."
02.17.2011	02.17.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Senator Burr Announces Events for February 22-25 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Durham, Wake, Davie, Iredell, Gaston and Mecklenburg counties to speak with students and tour small businesses in the area. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Tuesday, February 22, 2011 9:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in BD and Duke Medicine Forum to Address Growing Cost, Quality Burdens of Infection 3001 Cameron Boulevard Durham, NC 11:00 AM Senator Burr to meet with the Nature Conservancy North Carolina Chapter 4705 University Drive Durham, NC 27707 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at the Durham Chamber of Commerce lunch 12 Davis Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 1:30 PM Senator Burr to receive an award from National Association of Manufacturers at LORD Corporation 111 Lord Drive Cary, NC 27511 *Media wishing to cover this event should contact Dawn Astorino, Manager of Communications for LORD Corporation (919) 468 - 5980 ext. 6330 Wednesday, February 23, 2011 7:30 AM Senator Burr to speak at Holly Springs Rotary breakfast Devils Ridge Golf Club 5107 Linksland Drive Holly Springs, NC 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit The Healing Place 1251 Goode Street Raleigh, NC 11:45 AM Senator Burr to visit The Wilmington Street Center 1420 S. Wilmington Street Raleigh, NC 1:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to students at Apex High School 1501 Laura Duncan Road Apex, NC Thursday, February 24, 2011 10:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to students at Davie High School 1200 Salisbury Road Mocksville, NC 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at the Statesville Rotary lunch 635 Deauville Road Statesville, NC 28625 2:00 PM Senator Burr to visit the Universal Technical Institute NASCAR Training Institute 220 Byers Creek Road Mooresville, NC 28117 Friday, February 25, 2011 9:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to the Gaston Chamber of Commerce 1500 East Garrison Boulevard Gastonia, NC 28054 1:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to students at North Mecklenburg High School 11201 Old Statesville Road Huntersville, NC 28078
02.17.2011	02.17.11 Burr Bill Provides Access to Flexible Spending Accounts to Military Families WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced S. 387, a bill that will allow military servicemembers to participate in the federal Flexible Spending Account (FSA) program. Currently, civilian federal employees, including civilians who work for the Department of Defense, are permitted to enroll in the FSA program, but active duty military personnel are excluded from enrollment. Senator Burr joined his Military Family Caucus co-chair, Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), in introducing this bill. "America's military men and women and their families make great sacrifices on behalf of our nation, and they deserve the best services we can offer them," Senator Burr said. "Flexible spending accounts would be an important tool in empowering our service members and their families to stretch their health care dollars even further and better meet their individual health care needs, and there is no reason military personnel shouldn't have access to the same benefits as their civilian counterparts." Giving military servicemen and women and their families the ability to enroll in flexible spending accounts allows them to set aside a portion of their pre-tax income to cover out-of-pocket child care and health care expenses.Circumstances unique to service members such as deployments and changes in duty station will be accounted for under this legislation.
02.16.2011	02.16.11 Sen. Burr Introduces “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Resolution Legislation honors service members who fought in Vietnam Washington D.C - Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced a resolution to honor veterans who served in Vietnam by designating March 30th as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day." March 30th marks the anniversary of the day that combat and combat support units withdrew completely from South Vietnam. "Our soldiers served honorably and bravely in Vietnam. Unfortunately, they arrived home to a country in political turmoil, and never received the recognition they deserve," Senator Burr said. "By setting March 30th aside as a day to focus on our Vietnam veterans, we can show our unified gratitude for their service and the sacrifices that these veterans made on our behalf." Senator Burr today also encouraged communities throughout the country to take measures to commemorate this day by honoring Vietnam veterans in their area. This is the second consecutive year that Senator Burr has introduced a resolution for the establishment of "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day."Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Thad Cochran (R-MS), James Inhofe (R-OK), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) co-sponsored the legislation. The United States became involved in Vietnam because policy-makers believed that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia. The US Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam. After many years of combat, all US troops were withdrawn from Vietnam on March 30, 1973, under the terms of the Treaty of Paris. More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam.
02.14.2011	02.14.11 Burr Statement on the President's Budget Proposal WASHINGTON - U.S.Senator Richard Burr (R-NC)today made the following statement regarding President Obama's proposed budget for 2012: "The President's budget simply does not go far enough to rein in out-of-control government spending.I am currently reviewing it in its entirety, but from what I've seen so far, this proposal neglects to tackle our nation's biggest budget problems, including entitlement programs. It seems as though the President even ignored the work of his own Debt Commission. We must go further and make the tough decisions necessary to put America back on the path to fiscal sanity."
02.10.2011	02.10.11 Burr Statement on Kyl Announcement WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) made the following statement on Senator Jon Kyl's (R-Arizona) announcement that he will not seek re-election in 2012: "I will miss, and I'm sure all Senate Republicans will miss, Jon's leadership. He is an outstanding Whip, and has helped lead the Republican Conference through some challenging legislative times. I have enjoyed serving as Jon's Chief Deputy Whip, and I look forward to working with him and the rest of his whip team during his remaining time in the Senate."
02.10.2011	02.10.11 ICYMI: SENATOR BURR RECEIVES THE TEACH FOR AMERICA CONGRESSIONAL CHAMPION AWARD Burr Honored for Leadership in the Effort to End Educational Inequity Washington, D.C., February 10, 2011 - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) was presented with the Teach For America Congressional Champion Award today for his ongoing leadership in the effort to expand educational opportunity for America's students. Burr was one of 12 Members of Congress to receive the award from Teach For America founder and CEO Wendy Kopp during a luncheon ceremony in the Kennedy Caucus Room. "The support of our Congressional champions has played such a significant role in growing our impact in our first 20 years. Not only have they been instrumental in providing criticalfunding and policy changes, but their backing has given confidence to thousands of others who have made an investment in our mission," Kopp said. "I am incredibly grateful to Senator Burr for his ongoing leadership in the field of education, and for enabling Teach For America to invest in future generations of leaders committed to working inside and outside of the classroom to provide all children with an excellent education." Teach For America selected Senator Burr for the Congressional Champion Award in recognition of his commitment to educational excellence for all students and to the efforts of Teach For America in North Carolina and across the nation. Several research studies using student data from North Carolina have found that Teach For America corps members have a positive impact on student achievement across subjects and grade levels. "Providing our students with a quality education is the key to their future success and to the continued competitiveness of our nation in the global economy," Burr said "The mission of this outstanding national organization is to eliminate educational inequity in this country by attracting dedicated, talented college graduates to teach and make a lasting impact in underserved communities across the country. I am honored to be recognized by an organization that plays such a critical role in preparing our current generation of students to be the next generation of leaders." Teach For America is the national corps of top recent college graduates who commit to teach for two years in urban and rural public schools and become lifelong leaders in the movement to expand educational opportunity. Teach For America's network includes 8,200 corps members teaching in 39 regions and a national force of 20,000 alumni at the forefront of efforts to end educational inequity. This year in Charlotte and Eastern North Carolina, more than 350 Teach For America corps members are reaching approximately 21,000 students in underserved schools while some 600 alumni are working from every sector to level the playing field for students and families in low-income communities. For more information, visit http://www.teachforamerica.org/.
02.09.2011	02.09.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: Public Employee Pension Transparency Act Press Conference WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will participate in a press conference to discuss the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act at 12:30pm today. The bill provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions and establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. He will be joined at the press conference by Congressmen Devin Nunes (R-CA), Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Darrell Issa (R-CA), and Senator John Thune (R-SD), as well as supporters of the bill. WHAT Public Employee Pension Transparency Act Press Conference WHEN 12:30 PM Eastern (02/09/2011) WHERE HVC 200 WHO Senator Richard Burr (NC) Representative Devin Nunes (CA)Chairman Paul Ryan (WI)Senator John Thune (SD)Chairman Darrell Issa (CA)
02.03.2011	02.03.11 Burr Bill Would Provide Care for Lejeune Vets, Family Members Exposed to Contaminated Water Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced his first bill of the 112th Congress, the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act. This legislation, which he also introduced in the 111th Congress, would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care toveterans and their family members who have experienced adverse health effects as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. "We now have another shot at doing the right thing for the thousands of Navy and Marine veterans and their families who were harmed during their service to our country," Senator Burr said. "While we continue to seek more answers, we can minimize further suffering by allowing Lejeune veterans and their families to receive the care they need and deserve." An estimated 750,000 people may have been exposed to probable and known human carcinogens in the base's water supply between the 1950s and 1980s. To date, this is the largest recorded environmental incident on a domestic Department of Defense installation. Last month, VA took the rare and significant step of consolidating adjudication for all pending and future disability claims from Lejeune veterans at one Regional Office and issued specific guidance to its field staff on the history of the contamination at the base and the health effects from exposure to the chemicals. The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry is conducting scientific studies to further understand the extent of human exposure on Camp Lejeune and planning human health surveys to determine the frequency of certain illnesses among former Camp Lejeune residents. Senator Burr's bill would provide targeted health care at VA facilities for veterans and military family members who were stationed at Camp Lejeune and have a number of illnesses and cancers related to exposure to the chemicals known to have been in the base drinking water.
02.02.2011	02.02.11 Senator Burr to speak at the Tobacco Growers of North Carolina Annual Meeting WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Raleigh on Friday to speak at the Tobacco Growers of North Carolina's annual meeting. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. WHO U.S. Senator Richard Burr WHAT Tobacco Growers of North Carolina Annual Meeting WHEN 11:00 AMFriday, February 4, 2011 WHERE Holshouser BuildingState Fairgrounds1025 Blue Ridge RoadRaleigh, NC 27607
02.01.2011	02.01.11 Senator Burr Re-elected as Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) announced that he has been elected to serve as Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs by his fellow Republican committee members, a vote that was approved and ratified by the Senate Republican Conference. Senator Burr has served as the top Republican on the Committee since 2007. "As the Senator from a state that more than 765,000 veterans call home, I am grateful for the opportunity to continue to serve as the Ranking Member of this committee. We must continue to pursue sound policies that address the evolving needs of our veterans and their families while also making sure that we are getting maximum results from programs already in place. I look forward to working with the new Committee Chairman, Senator Murray, and all the members of this Committee to address these complex, but vital issues," said Senator Burr. Throughout the 111th Congress, Senator Burr worked closely with committee members to pass legislation to strengthen health services, improve education benefits, identify and correct mismanagement at Arlington Cemetery, and protect veterans' due process, among others. Congress also passed unprecedented legislation that allows family members of seriously injured veterans to serve as their primary caregiver. # # #
01.27.2011	01.27.11 Burr Joins GOP Colleagues to Repeal Health Care Law Legislation identical to House-passed repeal WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) cosponsored legislation to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which President Obama signed into law March 23, 2010. "Despite being marketed as a health care reform bill, the legislation that was signed into law expands the size and scope of the federal government while failing to deliver on the promise to lower health care costs," said Burr. "Hard-working Americans who are already struggling in this difficult economy are bearing the brunt of new taxes, fees, and penalties because of this law. With each day that goes by, it becomes clearer that we must repeal this bill and replace it with meaningful health reform that will actually reduce the cost of health care." Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) is the lead sponsor of the bill. Thirty-eight Republicans have already cosponsored this bill, including Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Roy Blunt (R-Missouri), John Boozman (R-Arkansas), Scott Brown (R-Massachusetts), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Dan Coats (R-Indiana), Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), Bob Corker (R-Tennessee), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), John Ensign (R-Nevada), Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), Mike Johanns (R-Nebraska), Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin), Mark Kirk (R-Illinois), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), Mike Lee (R-Utah), John McCain (R-Arizona), Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky), Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), Rand Paul (R-Kentucky), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), James Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kansas), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Richard Shelby (R-Alabama),Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), John Thune (R-South Dakota), Pat Toomey (R-Pennsylvania), David Vitter (R-Louisiana), and Roger Wicker (R-Mississippi). UPDATE: All Republican Senators have signed on as cosponsors of this bill. Facts about the Health Care Law: Increases government spending by trillions. When fully implemented, this new law will increase federal government spending by $2.6 trillion, just over 10 years. To see a chart outlining federal spending as a result of this bill, click here. Increases the costs of health care. This law fails to deliver on the promise to lower health care costs. In fact, the Actuary of the Medicare program has stated in a letter that national health spending will increase by $311 billion over 10 years. For a person who buys a new insurance policy in the nongroup market, this means their average premium would be 10 to 13 percent higher in 2016 than if we had done nothing. This is an average premium increase of $2,100 for a family policy in the individual market. Americans did not want reform that makes their premiums even more expensive. To read a report issued by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the increase in premiums, click here. Massive expansion of government health care. The new law includes a massive expansion in the government's health care program for the low-income (Medicaid). Rather than making health insurance more affordable so that Americans could choose a policy that best meets their health care needs, 16 million more Americans will instead be forced into a government-run health care program in which 40 percent of physicians restrict access to patients. The Wall Street Journal ran an interesting story on this topic that you can read here. About 14 million people will lose the health insurance they get through their job, resulting in more Americans enrolling into Medicaid. In addition, the new law will cut a total of nearly $145 billion from Medicare Advantage plans - popular insurance plans that deliver a range of health care options to millions of seniors. This law also places new restrictions on Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), Medical Savings Accounts, Flexible Spending Arrangements (FSAs), and Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs). The law's new restrictions and tax increases will dramatically change for the worse the coverage and benefits millions of Americans currently enjoy. New penalties and fees. This new law includes an unconstitutional mandate that requires most Americans to obtain health insurance or be charged a fine simply for not being insured. This fine could be the greater of $695 or 2.5% of your household income in the coming years. Taking money from Medicare and seniors' health care to create new government programs. This law cuts more than half a trillion dollars from Medicare beneficiaries in order to pay for the creation of new government programs. This includes cuts to hospitals, Medicare Advantage, home health, nursing homes, and hospice care. According to the Medicare Actuary, about "15 percent of Part A providers would become unprofitable within the 10-year projection period" because of the health care law. The Actuary also found that the new law may result in doctors terminating their participation in Medicare entirely, "possibly jeopardizing access to care for Medicare beneficiaries." New tax on retirees. On top of the Medicare cuts that retirees will face, this law actually increases taxes on employers who offer prescription drug coverage to their retired workers. This $4.5 billion tax increase will result in employers dropping their retiree health coverage, the exact opposite of what we should be doing. Job-stifling tax. This health reform law imposes a new tax on jobs by forcing employers who do not provide "acceptable" coverage to pay a penalty tax of up to $2,000 per worker. The Congressional Budget Office confirmed that such taxes "could reduce the hiring of low-wage workers." In May 2009, before the Democrats unveiled their plans for health care reform, Senator Burr joined with Senator Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma) and Representatives Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin) and Devin Nunes (R-California) to introduce the Patients' Choice Act, a bill that would have delivered on the shared principles of promoting access to quality, affordable health care, and would have done so without adding billions of dollars in new debt or taxes. To read more about the Patients' Choice Act, click here.
01.26.2011	01.26.11 Senator Burr Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's State of the Union Address: "Our nation continues to be confronted with many tough challenges, and President Obama touched on many of these difficult issues tonight. Like the president, I believe that North Carolina and our nation can and will overcome these challenges by working together. In order to turn around our economy we must empower individuals, families, and small business, not expand the size of government and increase taxes. The president took a step in the right direction tonight by suggesting a lower corporate tax rate, but if he intends to couple this with a tax increase on the American people, then it is a non-starter. "I applaud the president's call for fiscal responsibility, and I could not agree more. However, these are mere words until we make the difficult choices necessary to begin paying off our enormous national debt. Calling it an investment does not change the fact it is nothing more than new spending that our nation cannot afford. The American people sent a clear message last November that they want spending to be cut, not frozen at the current, inflated levels like the president suggested tonight. We must stop the out-of-control spending in Washington or our economy will be no better off, and future generations will suffer the consequences. "Lastly, I am proud of our troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have done a tremendous job in difficult circumstances, and they deserve all the support we can give them - both while they are serving on active duty, and when they return home from combat."
01.20.2011	01.20.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for January 21, 2011 On Friday, January 21, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Mecklenburg and Rowan counties to speak with students and tour Freightliner Truck Manufacturing Plant. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Friday, January 21 9:30 AM Senator Burr to speak to students at Kipp Academy of Charlotte 931 Wilann Drive Charlotte, NC 28215 1:15 PM Senator Burr to tour Freightliner Truck Manufacturing Plant 11550 Statesville Boulevard Cleveland, NC 27013
01.19.2011	01.19.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for January 20, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Thursday, January 20, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Forsyth and Mecklenburg counties to speak with students and tour businesses in the area. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact his press office at (202) 228-1616. Thursday, January 20 8:15 AM Senator Burr to speak to students at Forsyth Country Day School 5501 Shallowford Road Lewisville, NC 27023 10:45 AM Senator Burr to speak to students at Lake Norman Christian Academy 7921 Sam Furr Rd Huntersville, NC 12:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Daetwyler Custom Fabrication and Machining 13420 Reese Blvd. West Huntersville, NC 28078 2:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Electrolux USA 10200 David Taylor Drive Charlotte, NC
01.19.2011	01.19.11 Senator Burr Sees Progress in Afghanistan WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement regarding his recent visit to Afghanistan and Pakistan. "So much has changed in Afghanistan since my last visit a year ago. General Petraeus and the actions of our and allied forces on the ground have yielded important security gains in the southern provinces of Afghanistan. The progress was evident as we were able to walk through village bazaars and travel across regions of the country which just last year were major Taliban strongholds. "I am optimistic that we have started to turn the corner and that we will be in a position to hand over regions of the country to Afghan control this spring. There will be setbacks, as there always are, butour brave men and women are making great progress in a difficult environment." Burr was joined on the trip by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Pat Toomey (R-PA). The Congressional Delegation met with U.S. troops, military officials and political leaders to discuss military involvement, as well political and economic issues affecting Afghanistan and Pakistan. Senator Burr met with troops serving from North Carolina, as well as General David Petraeus, Afghan President Hamid Karzai, Foreign Secretary Salman Bashir of Pakistan, and Pakistani General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, Chief of Army Staff of Pakistan Army.
01.10.2011	01.10.11 Senator Burr Announces Events for January 10-12 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) will travel to Wake, Beaufort, Pitt, and Nash counties next week. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, January 10 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to students at Apex High School (CANCELLED DUE TO WEATHER) 1501 Laura Duncan Road Apex, NC 27502 3:30 PM Senator Burr to speak with Bill LuMaye on WPTF Radio Raleigh Tuesday, January 11 10:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at Beaufort County Early College High School Beaufort County Community College Campus Hwy. 264 East Washington, NC 12:00 PMSenator Burr to speak to the Greenville Kiwanis Club (CANCELLED DUE TO WEATHER) Brook Valley Country Club 311Oxford Greenville, NC 1:45 PM Senator Burr to tour Metrics Inc. (CANCELLED DUE TO WEATHER) 1240 Sugg Parkway Greenville, NC Wednesday, January 12 8:30 AM Senator Burr to speak toHenry Hinton on WTIB Radio Greenville 10:00 AM Senator Burr to tour Babington Technology 159 Fabrication Way Rocky Mount, NC 27804 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to the Nash-Rocky Mount Rotary Club 100 SouthernBlvd. Rocky Mount, NC 1:30 PM Senator Burr to speak tostudents at Rocky Mount Academy 1313 Avondale Avenue Rocky Mount, NC 27803
12.28.2010	12.28.10 Burr Statement On Repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell Washington, D.C. - Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on the vote to repeal Don't Ask Don't Tell: "Given the generational transition that has taken place in our nation, I feel that this policy is outdated and repeal is inevitable. However, I remain convinced that the timing of this change is wrong, and making such a shift in policy at a time when we have troops deployed in active combat areas does not take into consideration the seriousness of the situation on the ground. But, the vote this morning to invoke cloture on this bill indicated that the broader Senate was prepared to move forward with a change, and despite my concerns over timing, my conclusion is that repealing Don't Ask Don't Tell is the right thing to do."
12.18.2010	12.18.10 Sen. Burr Congratulates Judge Albert Diaz on Confirmation U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today congratulates Judge Albert Diaz after the Senate confirmed him to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.Senator Burr introduced Judge Diaz at his confirmation hearing and has since advocated for him publicly and privately. "Judge Diaz is a well-qualified nominee and has proven himself already by earning a reputation as a fair and impartial judge, and also for dedicated public service both in the Marines and in his community," Senator Burr said. "I supported his nomination and am extremely pleased that the Senate has finally voted to confirm him. Throughout the difficult confirmation process, Judge Diaz has remained unwavering in his enthusiasm to serve his country. I have full confidence in his ability to protect and enforce the laws of our country and look forward to seeing the excellent judgment that he is sure to exercise in the Fourth Circuit. "The Fourth Circuit has suffered for some time under partisan politics.When President Bush left office, the Fourth Circuit was one-third vacant due to the refusal of Senate Democrats to confirm qualified nominees from across the Fourth Circuit - even when they, like Judge Diaz, were uncontroversial, and had unwavering home state support.After the treatment some of these nominees were subjected to, I am impressed that we still have high caliber nominees like Judge Diaz who step forward to go through the nominations process. It is a proud day that Judge Diaz is getting the vote that so many never did." The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, located in Richmond, Virginia, hears federal appeals from cases filed in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. While North Carolina is the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit, the state can presently claim only two judges on the fifteen judge bench.
12.16.2010	12.16.10 Sen. Burr Congratulates Judge Catherine Eagles on Confirmation Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the confirmation of Judge Catherine Eagles to the Middle District of North Carolina, United States District Court. "Judge Eagles is a well-qualified nominee with an impressive judicial background," Senator Burr said."Her varied experiences and sharp legal mind are sure to serve the people of North Carolina well. Congratulations to her on her confirmation to the Middle District court."
12.16.2010	12.16.10 Senator Burr Floor Speech on New START Treaty Washington, D.C. - This afternoon, Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) spoke on the floor of the United States Senate about his concerns over ratification of the New START Treaty. Excerpts from his floor speech and a link to view video footage of the speech are below: "I remain concerned that by ratifying New START, the United States Senate would be allowing an outdated and narrow agenda to constrain our defensive flexibilities and capabilities at the very point in history where we need a clear-eyed view of the real threats on the horizon.""This treaty represents an old approach, based on Cold War relationships, and, in my estimation, it should be rejected by this body." Following his floor address, Senator Burr spoke on the topic saying, "There are also greater issues at hand here which may be largely unknown to the public, but cause me grave concern as a member of the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees. It is these issues, which I am not at liberty to discuss openly or on the floor of the Senate, that scare me the most." CLICK HERE to watch video of Senator Burr's floor speech.
12.15.2010	12.15.10 Burr Statement on Omnibus Spending Bill Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement on the Majority's attempt to pass a massive omnibus spending bill: "I am opposed to this legislation and the process by which it was developed. Rather than voting on a budget, the Majority threw together a massive, 2,000 page spending bill that they are attempting to rush through without giving Senators, or the American people, the time and ability to read or amend it. What we do know about this bill is that it contains more than 6,500 earmarks and funds the implementation of many elements of the new health care law. The American people have demanded more transparency and an end to this kind of irresponsible spending. They deserve a clean, short-term funding bill, but this is just more of the same."
12.15.2010	12.15.10 Burr Statement On Restoring Predictability To Tax Rates Washington, D.C. - Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on his vote to extend current tax rates: "Senate passage of a bill to extend the current tax rates today will restore the predictability needed for small businesses and individuals to plan for the future and invest in our economy. During these difficult economic times, any tax increase would be devastating, both for our economy and for American families. Although an amendment which I supported to pay for the extension of unemployment benefits failed, voting for this bill and preventing an across-the-board tax hike was my primary concern. Congress could have waited for the perfect bill, but the American people and economy could not afford to."
12.14.2010	12.14.10 Senate Improves Veterans’ Education Benefits Washington, D.C. - Last night, the Senate unanimously approved S. 3447, the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010. This legislation, co-sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), makes critical improvements to the Post-9/11 GI Bill. "I'm pleased that the Senate was able to come together to agree on a bill that makes the Post-9/11 GI Bill work better for military personnel, veterans and their families," Senator Burr said. "This bill will help servicemembers transition to civilian life and excel just as they did while serving in the military." This legislation provides eligibility for Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits to certain Guard members who were inadvertently left out and allows active duty servicemembers to receive a stipend for books and supplies. It also allows soldiers to use Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits for on-the-job and vocational training and those using on-line training may receive a housing stipend. Additionally, it corrects inequities in tuition payments that currently vary from state to state. To learn more about the measures included in this bill, please click here.
12.13.2010	12.13.10 Burr, Hagan Lead Bipartisan Group of Senators in Asking EPA to Develop Fair Standards for Brick Industry WASHINGTON, D.C. - North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Kay R. Hagan are leading a bipartisan group of Senators in asking the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop fair and achievable pollution reduction requirements for the country's brick and clay industries. North Carolina has more brick manufactures than any other state in the nation. The industry employs 1,300 North Carolinians and invests more than $47 million in salaries in the state. "Given our country's fragile economic recovery, this issue is critical for the continued viability of brick manufacturers and distributors in our states and the hundreds of thousands of jobs they generate nationwide," the Senators wrote in a letter today to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and Office of Management and Budget Director Jacob Lew. "A reasonable and achievable standard will ensure that public health and the environment are protected and that this essential industry can continue to create jobs in our states and help our struggling economy rebound." The Senators ask the EPA to consider a range of flexible approaches authorized by the Clean Air Act in developing a new brick emissions standard that fairly balance environmental concerns with the need to preserve jobs across the country. The full text of the letter is available here. Between 2003 and 2006, the brick industry spent an estimated $100 million on pollution control equipment to comply with the original emission control standard. But in 2007, a D.C. Circuit Court overturned this standard, and the EPA is now beginning to consider a new set of rules for the industry. Without fair consideration of the brick industry's previous clean air investments, a new standard could mean manufacturers would have to scrap their recently installed technologies and replace them with more costly controls, potentially leading to closed plants and lost jobs. Since 2007, more than 6,000 brick manufacturer and distributor jobs have been lost nationwide due to the economic downturn. "We appreciate Senator Hagan and Senator Burr asking EPA to consider approaches through which EPA can provide flexibility and set a real world achievable standard that protects the health of the people who work in or live near an operating brick plant," said Fletcher Steele, President of Winston-Salem based Pine Hall Brick Company, Inc., the largest supplier of clay pavers in the United States. "The majority of brick being produced in this country is made in plants that already use air pollution controls that exceed the air quality standards issued by EPA in 2003. Setting a standard that small plants can meet at a reasonable cost while still protecting the health of those that live nearby is crucial to protecting the jobs of those who have made brick-making their passion and their career." Also signing today's letter were the following Senators: Evan Bayh (D-IN), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Robert Casey (D-PA), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), George Voinovich (R-OH), and Mark Warner (D-VA). Contact: David Ward (Sen. Burr) David_Ward@burr.senate.gov 202-228-1616 Stephanie Allen (Sen. Hagan) Stephanie_Allen@hagan.senate.gov 202-224-9980
12.10.2010	12.10.10 Senator Burr Statement New START Treaty Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement on the New START treaty: "After reviewing provisions contained in the New START treaty, I have decided to vote against ratification. I fear it will have a negative impact on our national security, and the United States must be assured that any arms treaty it agrees to does not limit our ability to defend against growing international threats. This New START does not satisfy that criteria, and I look forward to debate on the issue so I can address more specifically the concerns I have with ratifying this agreement."
12.09.2010	12.09.10 President Signs Burr’s “Crush Video” Bill Into Law Washington, D.C. - Today, at a ceremony at the White House, President Obama signed the Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act of 2010, into law. The bill, which was introduced by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) along with Senators Jon Kyl (R-AZ) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR), will criminalize the creation, sale, distribution, advertising, marketing, and exchange of animal crush videos. "Animal crush videos far surpass what most people would think of when they hear the phrase 'animal cruelty' - they are shockingly gruesome, unbelievably cruel, and disturbingly perverse," Senator Burr said. "All 50 states and the District of Columbia already have laws prohibiting animal cruelty, but ever since the April 2010 Supreme Court Decision, those who have committed these acts have been able to tape their illicit conduct and sell and exchange the footage online." In the Supreme Court case U.S. v. Stevens, the Court struck down a previous law regarding crush videos on the grounds that it was overbroad. "Our law was carefully crafted to address the Supreme Court's First Amendment concerns, and to stop this abhorrent practice," Senator Burr explained. Animal crush videos are violent, obscene depictions of animal cruelty - often involving young women torturing small animals to death. The bill passed unanimously through the Senate.
12.07.2010	12.07.10 Sen. Burr Statement on Passing of Elizabeth Edwards Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement on the passing of Elizabeth Edwards: "Brooke and I were saddened to learn this afternoon of the passing of Elizabeth Edwards. She was a passionate advocate for issues she believed in and a caring and loving mother. Her legacy should serve as an inspiration to all of us. Her life was not without tragedy and adversity, yet through it all she fought for her family and faced every challenge with courage, poise, and grace. Our thoughts and prayers are with her entire family, but particularly her children, Cate, Emma Claire, and Jack."
11.30.2010	11.30.10 Senator Burr Statement on S. 510, the Food Safety Modernization Act Today, Senator Burrissued the following statement on S. 510, the Food Safety Modernization Act: "Our nation's food safety system was designed over a century ago and was appropriate for a world in which most of our food was grown and processed domestically. I voted in support of S. 510 today because I believe it is important that we modernize and update our approach to food safety to address issues that stem from our increasingly global food supply.After months of discussion and debate, I am confident the final version will work for North Carolina and will protect small processors and farms." - U.S. Senator Richard Burr
11.19.2010	11.19.10 Senate Passes Bipartisan Resolution Honoring Military Families During Military Family Month Boxer, Burr Lead Senate Military Family Caucus in Sponsoring Resolution Recognizing the Commitment and Sacrifices of Military Families Washington, D.C. - Senate Military Family Caucus Co-Chairs Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Richard Burr (R-NC) today lauded the Senate passage of a concurrent resolution honoring military families during Military Family Month, which is marked each November. Senator Burr said, "During the month of November, Americans gather together to give thanksgiving for our families and our country, so it is both fitting and necessary to set aside time to honor our military families as well. At great personal sacrifice, they provide the support that our servicemen and women rely upon as they serve in the finest armed forces in the world. This will be the tenth consecutive year in which thousands of our service members and their military families will be separated during the holidays. I am personally very grateful for the selflessness and patriotism of our military families, and I hope that others will have them in their thoughts and join me in honoring them this November." Senator Boxer said, "The strength of our military is grounded in the strength of our military families. As we celebrate Military Family Month, I am inspired by the selflessness and courage of our troops and their families, and grateful for the sacrifices they make every day in service to our nation. I am proud to join my Senate colleagues in honoring these incredible families." The Senate Military Family Caucus works closely with the House Military Family Caucus to improve programs and services for military families, and to focus on the unique and growing challenges they face. The Caucus aims to substantively address the challenges faced by military families including childcare, education, employment, health care and the effects of multiple deployments on the mental health and well-being of spouses, caregivers and children. Along with Boxer and Burr, additional cosponsors of the resolution are Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Mark Begich (D-AK), Michael F. Bennet (D-CO), Scott Brown (R-MA), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Kay R. Hagan (D-NC), Mike Johanns (R-NE), John F. Kerry (D-MA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Patty Murray (D-WA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). The full text of the Senators' resolution is below: CONCURRENT RESOLUTION To Recognize and Honor the Commitment and Sacrifices of Military Families of the United States. Whereas the month of November marks Military Family Month; Whereas the freedom and security the citizens of the United States enjoy today are a result of the continued dedication and vigilance of the Armed Forces throughout the history of the United States; Whereas the security of the United States depends on the readiness and retention of the men and women of the Armed Forces, a force comprised of active, National Guard, and Reserve personnel; Whereas military families are an integral source of strength for the Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, Airmen, and Coastguardsmen of the United States, and have continually proven their dedication, service, and willingness to make great sacrifices in support of service members of the United States; Whereas military families often endure unique circumstances that are central to military life, including long separations from their loved ones, the uncertainty and demands of multiple deployments, school and job transfers, and frequent moves from communities where they have established roots and relationships; Whereas military family members have become the central support system for each other as they reinforce units through family readiness efforts and initiatives, support service members within the units, and reach out to the families whose loved ones have been deployed; and Whereas it is important to recognize the sacrifices, support, and dedication of the families of the men and women who serve in the Armed Forces; Now, therefore be it Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That Congress— (1) recognizes the commitment and ever-increasing sacrifices military families make every day during the current era of protracted conflict; (2) honors the families of the Armed Forces and thanks the families for their dedication and service to the United States; and (3) encourages the citizens of the United States to recognize, commemorate, and honor the role and contribution of the military family, including selfless service that ensures freedom and preserves the quality of life in the United States.
11.11.2010	11.11.10 Senator Burr Offers Veterans Day Remarks Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today celebrated the service of our nation's veterans with the following statement: "As North Carolinians, we are proud to claim many of our country's finest servicemen and women, active and retired, as our own.This Veterans Day, we join together to thank them for their service and remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice.With our nation at war, we send our thoughts and prayers out to those men and women in uniform currently on duty here at home, on watch at sea, on post in countries across the globe and in harms' way in Iraq and Afghanistan. "America's veterans - our co-workers, our neighbors, our friends and family members - have endured the pain of separation from loved ones, the trials of repeated deployments, and the harsh realities of combat. They have done so quietly and professionally for generation after generation. We must realize that the mental wounds from the trauma of war and stress of service are often more difficult to treat than the physical wounds, yet finding ways to do so is essential for the rehabilitation of our returning warriors.It's the responsibility of government to watch over the programs designed for veterans' care and ensure their funds are being spent wisely. It's our duty as citizens to provide these men and women and their families with the respect and compassion they deserve."
10.14.2010	10.14.10 Veterans’ Benefits Bill Signed into Law Package Contains Provisions Offered by Sen. Burr Washington, D.C. - President Obama yesterday signed the Veterans' Benefits Act of 2010 into law. This new law contains several provisions authored by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC). Sen. Burr welcomed the bill's passage into law with the following statement: "This new law helps address the needs of veterans who sustained injuries while serving our nation, including wounds suffered as a result of the ever-changing nature of modern warfare. Veterans with severe traumatic brain injuries and those who have suffered from a loss of limb may now receive greater benefits that can help them live more independently in their own homes and communities and help give them a better quality of life," said Sen. Burr. "It is our duty to ensure that severely-wounded veterans are given every opportunity to live full and productive lives. There is always more we can do for our country's injured heroes, but this new law is a step in the right direction." Portions of the new law that were sponsored by Sen. Burr include one that provides the highest level of "aid and attendance" benefits for veterans with severe traumatic brain injuries; a second that will reduce the delay severely-injured servicemembers may face in receiving VA benefits as they transition from military to civilian life; and a provision to enhance disability compensation for certain disabled veterans with difficulties using prostheses. The Veterans' Benefits Act of 2010 also improves life insurance benefits for veterans, enhances veterans' burial benefits, increases severely disabled veterans' access to automobiles or other transportation that can accommodate their disabilities, and strengthens protections under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
09.30.2010	09.30.10 Omnibus Veterans Bill Passes House, Senate Includes Provisions Introduced by Senator Burr to Enhance Benefits Washington DC - Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded House passage of the Veterans' Benefits Act of 2010 (H.R. 3219), a package of veterans bills that passed the Senate on Tuesday. The bill contains several provisions authored by Sen. Burr, including one that provides the highest level of "aid and attendance" benefits for veterans with severe traumatic brain injuries; a second that will reduce the delay severely-injured servicemembers may face in receiving VA benefits as they transition from military to civilian life; and a provision to enhance disability compensation for certain disabled veterans with difficulties using prostheses. "These veterans want to return to civilian life as healthy, contributing members of society, and it's our responsibility to help make that happen," Senator Burr said. "Now that veterans with severe traumatic brain injuries can qualify for the highest levels of 'aid and attendance' benefits provided by VA, they will have access to financial resources that will give them flexibility to make their own choices about how their needs will be met. This bill recognizes the unique challenges that our veterans face - whether it's difficulty with a new prosthetic limb or the difficulty of coping with a severe injury in the civilian world - and it increases resources so that severely-injured veterans can live their lives to the fullest." The Veterans' Benefits Act of 2010 also improves life insurance benefits for veterans, enhances veterans' burial benefits, increases severely disabled veterans' access to automobiles or other transportation that can accommodate their disabilities and strengthens protections under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. This bill will now head to the President's desk to be signed into law.
09.29.2010	09.29.10 Senator Burr Votes to Reduce Government Spending Washington, D.C. -U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) today issued the following statement on his vote against the Continuing Resolution (H.R. 3081) which, when scored on a full-year basis, would cost $1.25 trillion: "Government spending has exploded the last two years, posing a grave threat to future generations of Americans who will be forced to foot the bill. We must make tough decisions, and we should start by cutting federal spending to 2008 levels now. Unfortunately, this continuing resolution is just continuing the reckless spending policies of the last two years." During consideration of this bill, Senator Burr supported amendments to make it more fiscally responsible. One was an amendment offered by Senator DeMint (R-SC) that would allow this bill to continue funding the government until February 4, 2011. This would prevent retiring and defeated Senators from voting on spending bills during a lame-duck session of Congress. Another amendment, offered by Senator Thune (R-SD), would reduce by 5% spending on all items except defense, national security, veterans funding, and programs specified to receive altered levels of funding through the bill, such as the 2010 census. This amendment would have reduced government spending by over $22 billion. Both of these amendments were defeated.
09.29.2010	09.29.10 Senators Introduce Legislation to Help Remedy Problems at Arlington National Cemetery Legislation follows hearing in July that revealed thousands of graves may be mismarked WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following a July hearing in the Senate Subcommittee on Contracting Oversight which revealed the possibility of thousands of unmarked or improperly marked gravesites, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Scott Brown (R-MA), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), and Susan Collins (R-ME) have introduced legislation to help the new leadership at the cemetery structure a plan to identify and remedy errors. Following the July hearing, the Senators pledged to follow up on the results and ensure that the Army investigates and systematically fixes any identified problems. This legislation directs the Secretary of the Army to review and report to Congress on the progress being made at Arlington to fix errors in burial records and improve contracts oversight at the cemetery. "My heart goes out to the families affected by the problems at Arlington Cemetery. They have already lost a loved one and should not have to face any more heartache or uncertainty," Senator Burr said. "We must ensure that the families of veterans have no doubts about the final resting place of their loved ones who courageously served our country." "After our July hearing, I made a promise to the American public and to the families of those brave men and women buried at Arlington that the hearing would not be the end of Congress's oversight of this problem," Senator McCaskill said. "I'm confident that the Army and the Cemetery are both taking this very seriously, but this legislation will help hold the folks at Arlington accountable for their progress in identifying and fixing any errors in the burial records, changing the way they manage contracts, and for their efforts to reach out to families who are suffering from this unnecessary heartbreak." "The problems uncovered at Arlington National Cemetery have made national headlines and have tarnished a sacred trust with military families. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bill to ensure that those responsible for managing Arlington National Cemetery are being held accountable and meeting the highest standards when it comes to ensuring the proper burials of America's fallen men and women. This bill is an important step toward ensuring that the families of Service members families never again will be forced to endure such devastating and emotional turmoil," Senator Brown said. "The more we investigate the gross negligence at Arlington National Cemetery, the more we understand the extent of the mismanagement," said Senator Collins, Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. "The U.S. Army's careless oversight of Arlington National Cemetery led to missing burial records, hundreds of mismarked, unmarked or mislabeled graves and dumped burial urns. It has also resulted in a serious breach of trust between the Army and the families of those interned there, many of whom gave their lives in service to this nation. I will continue to fight for a complete overhaul of Arlington National Cemetery's management, which must be held accountable. We must help ensure that Arlington National Cemetery never again fails to provide our nation's heroes and their families with the highest levels of dignity and respect, worthy of their sacrifices." Many of the problems at Arlington National Cemetery resulted from a failed effort to automate how the Cemetery tracks burial records and manages burial operations. Despite spending between $5and $8 million on multiple IT contracts over seven years, the cemetery's complex records remain in paper form and prone to human errors. The documents and information that were presented at the July hearing suggest that thousands of graves may be unmarked, improperly marked, or mislabeled on the cemetery's maps. Following a June 2010 U.S. Army Inspector General (IG) report that found many of the problems at Arlington National Cemetery, the Secretary of the Army established a new organizational structure at the cemetery and created a new leadership position that reports directly to the secretary. A senior official from the Department of Veterans Affairs, which successfully manages over 130 veterans cemeteries nationwide, has also been stationed at Arlington National Cemetery, to help sort out the problems and reorganize the oversight and management systems. Today's legislation will codify the new organizational structure and ensure that the management at Arlington is accountable to Congress. Specifically, the legislation will: · Require the Secretary of the Army to report to Congress on the Cemetery's ability to verify the identity, location and burial records for every gravesite at Arlington National Cemetery and the plans to remedy any errors found. · Require the Secretary of the Army to report to Congress on the progress at Arlington on changing the management and oversight structure at Arlington National Cemetery, including contract management and practices for providing information and outreach to families of individuals buried at Arlington. · Require the Government Accountability Office to oversee and report to Congress on the management and oversight of contracts at Arlington National Cemetery, including oversight of: o All contracts for the automation of burial operationso Cemetery contract management and coordination with Army contracting agencies o Any corrective action taken to address the IG report's findings o The Cemetery's compliance with directives from the Secretary of the Army and recommendations from the Army National Cemeteries Advisory Commission o Cemetery practices for providing information and outreach to families of individuals buried at Arlington o Feasibility and advisability of transferring the control of Arlington National Cemetery and the Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National Cemetery to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
09.29.2010	09.29.10 Senator Burr Marks “Gold Star Wives Day” Washington, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today celebrated passage of legislation marking December 18, 2010 as "Gold Star Wives Day."This day provides an opportunity to honor the members of Gold Star Wives of America, a volunteer organization that has assisted widows and survivors of fallen military members since it was founded in 1945, and thank them for their untiring efforts and support. "The qualities of Gold Star Wives - their strength, selflessness and kindness towards others - reflect those of one of the organization's founders, First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt." Burr said."Out of love and duty to their country, members of Gold Star Wives have volunteered to take on responsibilities that consume significant amounts of time and energy. By marking this day, we can offer a small token of appreciation for their patriotism and sacrifice." To learn more about the Gold Star Wives of America, please visit their website here.
09.28.2010	09.28.10 Bipartisan Legislation Promoting Life-Saving Medical Advances Clears Senate WASHINGTON - Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), John Ensign (R-Nev.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), and Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) praised passage of legislation today reauthorizing a law that has brought hope and the promise of life-saving cures to patients suffering from diseases requiring bone marrow and cord blood transplants. The Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Reauthorization Act of 2010 (S. 3751), unanimously approved by the Senate today, reauthorizes the original 2005 act and extends the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation and National Cord Blood Inventory (NCBI) programs through Fiscal Year 2015. "This bill ensures that medical advances involving bone marrow and cord blood transplants will continue," said Sen. Hatch. "It will literally bring hope and healing to thousands of Americans suffering from disease such as leukemia, sickle cell anemia and Hodgkin's Disease, just to name a few. Patients in need of these transplants deserve nothing less, and this legislation will bring more access to these life-saving treatments." "Cord blood stem cells and bone marrow are powerful tools that can help save the lives and ease the suffering of thousands of individuals battling debilitating diseases," said Sen. Dodd. "Physicians will now have expanded access to life-saving therapies that can treat and, in some instances, cure these all too prevalent diseases - improving the lives of tens of thousands of patients and their families." "I am proud to support this life-saving legislation to renew and strengthen our commitment to the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program and the National Cord Blood Inventory and the patients and families it serves," said Sen. Burr. "Although we have made important strides in collecting cord blood for transplantation in recent years, thanks in large part to the groundbreaking work in North Carolina, we must build on these efforts. These programs are saving lives and bringing new hope to families in our state and across the nation. I am hopeful that the House of Representatives will quickly take up this important legislation so we can send it to the President for his signature." "I am pleased the Senate passed this bill, which builds upon the highly successful National Marrow Donor Program that has been a lifeline for thousands of transplant patients over the last several decades," said Sen. Reed. "Today, we are taking a critical step forward in expanding access to lifesaving therapies to millions of patients with conditions that can be treated and even cured with bone marrow or cord blood." "We need to continue researching and developing new methods that utilize adult stem cells for the treatment of diseases," said Sen. Ensign. "Cord blood stem cells have already proven to be a successful treatment, and this bill will extend federal funding and allow for more cord blood and bone marrow donations and collections. The passing of this legislation in the Senate shows that our fellow colleagues recognize its importance and the great impact it will have on the lives of many." "Thousands of Minnesotans and Americans suffer from devastating diseases like leukemia and lymphoma, among others," said Sen. Franken. "Procedures like cord blood stem cell and bone marrow transplants help save lives. Since its inception, the National Bone Marrow Donor Program has provided more than 35,000 transplants to these patients and I'm proud that it is based in Minnesota. This bill will ensure that the program remains strong so kids and adults can access these lifesaving therapies when they need them the most." "As a physician who has delivered thousands of babies, I am pleased to support the reauthorization of these important programs--particularly the National Cord Blood Inventory which gives mothers the opportunity to donate cord blood to increase the supply of publicly-available cord blood units, " said Sen. Coburn, MD. "I am mindful, however, that the cord blood program has fallen woefully short of its collection goals over the last five years. I am satisfied that the committee has done the proper oversight and implemented needed changes to significantly increase available cord blood units without authorizing any new spending." The legislation requires: Qualified cord blood banks to develop an annual plan and demonstrate ongoing progress toward achieving self-sufficiency. Cord blood banks to provide a plan on how to increase cord blood collection through novel approaches such as remote collection and help establish or contract with new collection sites. The collection and maintenance of at least 150,000 of high-quality and diverse cord blood units for transplantation through the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program. Further studies and demonstration projects to explore increasing cord blood donation and collection from a genetically diverse population. The General Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study on cord blood donation and collection within one year after enactment of S. 3751. ###
09.28.2010	09.28.10 Senator Burr Votes to Protect American Jobs, Businesses Washington, D.C. -U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) today voted against a cloture motion for S. 3816, the Reid-Durbin legislation to implement a new international tax regime and punish American companies with punitive tax increases. The motion was rejected on a bipartisan basis. "Once again, the Majority Leader denied Republicans the ability to offer any amendments and improve this bill," Sen. Burr said. "I cannot support legislation that will place American jobs at risk. This bill would hurt the ability of American companies to compete in a global marketplace, costing us jobs right here at home." S. 3816 would have raised tax burdens on imports from U.S.-owned corporations with no change in the treatment of imports from foreign-owned corporations. This would force consumers to pay more for American products, leading to potential job losses in the United States.
09.27.2010	09.27.10 Senators Introduce Animal Crush Video Prohibition WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and Richard Burr (R-N.C.) today introduced the Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act of 2010. The bipartisan bill would criminalize the creation, sale, distribution, advertising, marketing, and exchange of animal crush videos. The penalty for violations of the measure would be up to seven years in prison. Animal "crush" videos are violent, obscene depictions of animal cruelty - often involving young women torturing small animals to death. Such videos serve to fulfill the sexual fetish of a small segment of society. These videos were the target of a 1999 federal statute that the Supreme Court struck down earlier this year in U.S. v. Stevens on the basis that it was unconstitutionally overbroad. The Stevens case did not specifically involve crush videos and the Court stated that it was not deciding whether a statute limited to crush videos would be constitutional. Instead it left the door open for Congress to enact a narrowly tailored ban on animal crush videos. "Our legislation would ban animal crush videos that fit squarely within the obscenity doctrine -- a well-established exception to the First Amendment. It also takes the important step of banning non-commercial distribution of animal crush videos, which is necessary given the nature of the Internet and the propagation of file-sharing and peer-to-peer networks that exist today," said Senator Kyl. "Videos depicting extreme animal cruelty have no place in our society," Senator Merkley said. "I've worked closely with Senators Kyl and Burr to ensure that this bill protects free speech while ending depictions of the torture and abuse of helpless animals for financial gain." "Animal crush videos are far beyond what most people would think of when they hear the phrase 'animal cruelty' - they are shockingly gruesome, unbelievably cruel, and disturbingly perverse. While all 50 states and the District of Columbia already have laws prohibiting animal cruelty, those who commit these acts are currently able to tape their illicit conduct and sell and exchange the footage online. Our legislation is narrowly tailored to address the creation of these videos for interstate commerce, and will give law enforcement the tools they need to stop this abhorrent practice," said Senator Burr. Earlier this month, Senator Kyl chaired a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing entitled "Prohibiting Obscene Animal Crush Videos in the Wake of United States v. Stevens," that featured the testimony of Nancy Perry, Vice President for Government Affairs at the Human Society of the United States, and Dr. Kevin Volkan, Chair & Professor of the Psychology Program at California State University. Representatives Elton Gallegly (R-CA) and Gary Peters (D-MI) have sponsored a House companion bill, the Prevention of Interstate Commerce in Animal Crush Videos Act (H.R. 5566). ###
09.23.2010	09.23.10 Sen. Burr Receives Award from National Guard Washington, D.C. -Today, U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) accepted the Charles Dick Medal of Merit from the National Guard Association of the United States for his distinguished support of the National Guard. "I am humbled and honored by this recognition from the men and women of the National Guard," Senator Burr said. "From the earliest days of our country, the National Guard has been a symbol of American freedom, security and generosity. Their duties are dangerous and thankless, yet because of the sacrifices they make every day on our behalf, Americans are able to enjoy living in a free, democratic society." The medal is named in honor of Major General Charles Dick, President of the National Guard Association of the United States from 1902 to 1909, a major general in the Ohio National Guard, a Congressman and later a Senator. Dick was responsible for the passage of the Dick Acts of 1903 and 1908 that established the foundation of the modern National Guard.
09.23.2010	09.23.10 Senator Burr Statement on Veterans Affairs’ Committee Hearing and His Meeting with Secretary Shinseki WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement regarding this morning's hearing of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and his meeting with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki regarding the care for American veterans exposed to Agent Orange: "Yesterday I had the opportunity to sit down with Secretary Shinseki to talk about VA's implementation of coverage for veterans exposed to Agent Orange. I let him know that I asked Senator Isakson to serve as Acting Ranking Member for today's Veterans Affairs Committee hearing, but we did speak for close to an hour about VA policy concerning the expansion of coverage for Vietnam veterans. I expressed my concerns to him regarding VA's ability to implement the upcoming changes and process these claims. The Secretary addressed my concerns and answered all of my questions satisfactorily. At the end of our discussion I was convinced that he and his agency are prepared to handle these needed changes."
09.16.2010	09.16.10 Sen. Burr: Small Business Lending Act a “Misnomer” Washington, D.C. - The U.S. Senate today passed the Small Business Lending Act, a bill that Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) opposed on the grounds that it uses taxpayer dollars to increase government regulation, and expand government intervention in the private sector without providing the help America's small businesses need. "This would have been a pretty good bill if we had just kept it simple by extending and expanding the loan programs currently available through the Small Business Administration, and enhancing loan fee reductions," Senator Burr said. "However, the version we voted on today merely creates the appearance of doing something by establishing a new $30 billion lending facility, the effectiveness of which has been questioned by even the Congressional Oversight Panel. The result of this new lending facility is more government involvement in the private sector and a return to the same politicized bank lending that played a large role in the irresponsible loans that contributed to our current economic woes. This bill fundamentally ignores the lessons we have learned from the economic bust two years ago." "The title of this bill is a misnomer as it and fails to address the real needs of small businesses. If we want to really do something to help small businesses, we need to stop increasing taxes and imposing endless regulations on them," he continued.
09.01.2010	09.01.10 Sen. Burr Pleased by Progress, Pushes for EPA Action on Asheville Hazardous Waste Site Washington, D.C. - The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today announced plans to propose the CTS of Asheville, Inc./Mills Gap Road Groundwater Contamination site to the National Priorities List (NPL) list of hazardous waste sites. "The residents of this area have petitioned their government to address this issue, and they expect the EPA to do the right thing. Proposing to add this site the National Priorities List is a step in the right direction," Senator Burr said today. "There is still more the EPA must do in order to properly address the contamination in this area, and I will push for progress until this agency completely fulfills its duty to the people of North Carolina." In May 2009, Sen. Burr sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency's acting inspector general requesting an investigation of the work performed by EPA Region 4 on the former CTS of Asheville site. Additionally, Sen. Burr has facilitated community meetings between concerned citizens and the government agencies responsible for the contamination's containment and clean-up. The EPA may make a formal decision to propose the site to the NPL as early as March 2011. However, the decision to propose this site for the NPL does not guarantee its inclusion on the final list. Today's decision comes after the EPA conducted a series of studies on groundwater contamination over the past three years. For more information about these tests and the formal listing process, please click here.
08.18.2010	08.18.10 Burr, Boxer Announce Formation of Senate Military Family Caucus Bipartisan Group Will Work to Support Military Families Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), along with 18 colleagues, today announced the formation of the Senate Military Family Caucus - a bipartisan group that will focus on issues facing the families of active and veteran service men and women. "The families of America's men and women in uniform are the backbone of our military," Senator Burr said."They often sacrifice of themselves to offer the support and motivation our servicemembers need to accomplish their mission, all while living with the reality that their loved one may be in harm's way.There is a lot we can do for these families to ease their burden.The Senate Military Family caucus signifies that we, as a group of Senators, recognize a need to support military families and provides an avenue to push for legislation that will benefit these families." "We recognize that when a service member puts on a uniform, the entire family sacrifices for our country," said Senator Boxer. "The Senate Military Family Caucus will put a spotlight on issues affecting our men and women in uniform and their spouses and children. Working together, we will continue to address the unique challenges military families face with childcare, education, multiple deployments, spousal employment and more." The Senate Military Family Caucus will work closely with the recently formed House Congressional Military Family Caucus to improve programs and services for military families, and to focus on the unique and growing challenges they face. The Caucus aims to substantively address issues including childcare, education, employment, health care and the effects of multiple deployments on the mental health and well-being of spouses, caregivers and children. Along with Co-Chairs Burr and Boxer, the founding members of the Senate Military Family Caucus are Senators Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Max Baucus (D-MT), Mark Begich (D-AK), Michael F. Bennet (D-CO), Scott Brown (R-MA), Roland W. Burris (D-IL), Robert P. Casey Jr. (D-PA), Kay R. Hagan (D-NC), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John F. Kerry (D-MA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH).
08.17.2010	08.17.10 Burr Reacts to Delayed and Insufficient Response from VA on Misspent TBI Funds Washington, D.C. - On July 16, 2010, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, and Congressman Brad Miller (D-NC), Chairman of the Investigations Subcommittee of the House Science and Technology Committee, sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki requesting information on the misuse of over $6 million in funds that were appropriated by Congress to VA for research on Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). In their letter, Burr and Miller asked Secretary Shinseki to provide a detailed account of how the money was spent. The response from VA was due on July 30, and after requesting two deadline extensions, John Gingrich, Chief of Staff to the Secretary, issued a response that failed to fully address Senator Burr's and Congressman Miller's concerns by not providing a complete accounting of the expenditures and specific reasons why the VA failed to conduct any research on TBI using the original funds appropriated by Congress. "I am deeply troubled that even after giving VA officials two extensions on the deadline, they were still unable to account for the misuse of taxpayer dollars or explain why so much money went to administrative expenses and shutting down the project rather than critically needed research for our veterans," Senator Burr said. "In his confirmation hearing, Secretary Shinseki said he supported funding research and treatment of TBI, so he owes it to our nation's veterans to fully account for the misuse of this money as soon as possible." To read the letter Senator Burr and Congressman Miller sent to Secretary Shinseki, click here. To read the response from VA, click here. For more information, you can read an article from the Pittsburgh Tribune Review or Fox News.
08.10.2010	08.10.10 Sen. Burr Statement on Passing of Former Senator Ted Stevens Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement regarding the passing of former United States Senator Ted Stevens: "Brooke and I were very saddened to learn of the death of former Senator Ted Stevens. Our thoughts and prayers are with Catherine, the Stevens family, and the families of the other victims of the crash."
08.06.2010	08.06.10 Senator Burr Congratulates Judge James Wynn on Fourth Circuit Court Confirmation Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) last night congratulated Judge James A. Wynn of Raleigh, NC after the Senate confirmed him to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit late Thursday evening. Senator Burr introduced Judge Wynn at his confirmation hearing, and has advocated both publically and privately for his confirmation since he was first nominated by the President. "I am extremely pleased that the Senate has confirmed Judge James Wynn to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals," said Senator Burr. "I was happy to support this highly qualified nominee, and to work to finally fill this seat. I was disappointed that when President Bush left office, the Fourth Circuit was one-third vacant, due to the refusal of Senate Democrats to confirm qualified nominees from across the Fourth Circuit. It has been disheartening in my time in the Senate to watch incredibly qualified nominees, with home-state support, languish in the Senate: Judge Terry Boyle and Judge Bob Conrad, of North Carolina, Rod Rosenstein, of Maryland, and Judge Glen Conrad, of Virginia. After the treatment some of these nominees were subjected to, it is a wonder that others are still willing to step forward to put themselves through the nominations process. I look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan fashion to fill these vacancies with qualified nominees like Judge Al Diaz." In addition to his support for Judge Wynn, Senator Burr has strongly supported the confirmation of Judge Al Diaz since his nomination in November 2009. "I am disappointed that the Senate has not had the opportunity to vote on Judge Diaz yet," Burr said. "Like Judge Wynn, he is a qualified nominee with an impressive judicial and military background. I hope the Majority Leader will put political gamesmanship aside and make the confirmation of Judge Diaz a priority." The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, located in Richmond, Virginia, hears federal appeals from cases filed in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. While North Carolina is the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit, the state can presently claim only two judges on the fifteen judge bench. ###
08.05.2010	08.05.10 Amendments Offered by Sen. Burr Accepted in Veterans Affairs Committee Mark-up U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, offered several amendments in today's mark-up session that were accepted by the full committee. In addition to the amendments, Senator Burr's legislation to provide $43 million for additional transitional housing units for homeless veterans was approved. Senator Burr's amendments addressed issues vital to veterans in North Carolina and nationwide. Information on the amendments that were accepted is below: 1. Commission an action plan to improve correlation between employee pay and performance [Burr Amendment #1] 2. Provide for automatic cost-of-living-adjustments to veterans' disability compensation without the need for Congress to act each year [Burr Amendment #2] 3. Address the backlog of veterans' benefits claims by authorizing retroactive effective date for awards of disability compensation in connection with applications that are fully-developed at submittal [Burr amendment #3] 4. Require that bid savings on major medical facility projects of Department of Veterans Affairs be used for other major medical facility construction projects of the Department [Burr amendment #4] 5. Help ensure veterans' Second Amendment due process rights are respected [Burr amendment #6] 6. Establish a pathway to help America's servicemembers transfer their military skills into jobs that will protect our borders and other law enforcement positions [Burr Amendment #8] Additionally, the Veterans Affairs committee approved legislation that addressed much needed improvements to the new Post-9/11 GI Bill (S. 3447, Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010). "Today, the Committee acted on legislation that would help make the GI education program fair and generous, no matter where a veteran lives or chooses to go to school.By taking steps such as covering vocational training, the bill would allow more veterans and their families to pursue the educational programs that best meet their needs," Sen. Burr said regarding this bill. Senator Burr also offered an amendment that would provide health care through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to veterans and their family members exposed to contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune. This amendment was not accepted by the committee. "I am, once again, deeply disappointed that my colleagues have failed to approve an amendment providing care for the veterans and families who suffer illness due to exposure to contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune. These veterans and their families were harmed in the service of our country. They deserve better," said Sen. Richard Burr.
07.30.2010	07.30.10 Senator Burr Sponsors “National Child Awareness Month” WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today announced that the United States Senate unanimously passed Senate Resolution 598, designating September 2010 as "National Child Awareness Month." The month of September is expressly marked to promote awareness of charities and children and youth-serving organizations throughout the United States, and to honor their contributions to the health and well-being of our country's children. September is traditionally back-to-school month, a time when families focus on preparing children for the coming school year. It is also fitting that we take time during this month to reflect on the needs of children and youth. "Children and youth-serving charities and organizations provide invaluable services that enrich the lives of the children they serve, their families, and the nation as a whole. I am pleased the Senate passed this resolution to honor the hundreds of charitable organizations throughout the United States that work every day in the interest of our nation's children," said Senator Richard Burr. "Our country was built by people striving to create a better and brighter future for their children. The hundreds of charitable organizations for children and youth operating throughout the United States continue that tradition." The House counterpart, H.R. 1219, was passed by unanimous vote on July 19, 2010.
07.26.2010	07.26.10 Burr Statement on Nomination of Elena Kagan to Serve on the U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr today issued the following statement on his opposition to President Obama's nomination of Elena Kagan to serve on the United States Supreme Court: "I opposed Ms. Kagan's nomination to be Solicitor General, and the little additional information provided through the confirmation hearing process has given me no reason to change my mind in support of her to serve on the Supreme Court. With no judicial record, I am left with reviewing her decisions in academic life and the policies for which she actively advocated in prior political appointments. "I am concerned by her actions with regard to military recruiters - fighting to keep military recruiters off campuses in a time of war - and believe it extends to her views on the rest of the military. I am also concerned about her views on Second Amendment rights and her lack of sympathy for law-abiding gun owners. She has consistently substituted her personal beliefs for the law, giving poor advice on the constitutionality of options she disagreed with, and even skewing a medical statement on partial birth abortion in order to advocate for her position."
07.07.2010	07.07.10 Senator Burr Statement on Berwick Nomination Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the recess appointment of Dr. Donald Berwick to be the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: "It is an insult to the American people that the Administration chose to make an appointment of this scale during a congressional recess. So much for their promises of transparency and openness. "Dr. Berwick, an advocate of government rationed health care, was nominated by the President to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on April 19, but Democratic leaders in the Senate have not even scheduled a hearing on his nomination. The public deserves to know how Dr. Berwick will handle an agency that spends over $800 billion in taxpayer money, but it is clear the President wants to keep his views and agenda hidden from the American people. "The President is right that 'Washington games' are being played with this nomination—but he's misidentified the players."
06.30.2010	06.30.10 Burr Bill Encourages Use of Clean and Domestic Energy Sources U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) have introduced a bill to expand America's use of cleaner, domestic energy resources. The Next Generation Energy Security Act, S. 3535, utilizes natural gas vehicles, expands nuclear power generation, and includes measures to encourage spent-fuel recycling, vehicle electrification and use of renewable energy sources. "Reducing our country's dependence on foreign oil is important for the health of our economy and the safety of our citizens. This bill combines innovative approaches with commonsense policies to encourage the development and use of cleaner energy sources available here at home.A tight federal budget, a troubled economy and the situation in the Gulf of Mexico are all-too-obvious reminders that we need to focus on ensuring a predictable energy future.This plan will help move us forward in using cleaner, domestic energy, but without making energy more expensive," Burr said today. "Our nation needs an alternative energy plan that moves us away from importing foreign oil and toward our domestic energy resources," said Chambliss. "By incorporating ideas from several areas, our plan would put many Americans back to work while ensuring steady supplies of clean, reliable and predictable energy sources. We have the resources here to reduce emissions without making energy more costly. It's up to us to utilize them." While nuclear power only provides some 20 percent of our nation's electricity, it supplies 70 percent of our carbon-free, emission-free electricity. Additionally, oil accounts for 95 percent of U.S. transportation fuels. Addressing America's dependence on petroleum means addressing our transportation sector. The Next Generation Energy Security Act was introduced and referred to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The bill specifies the use of a variety of energy sources, including: Natural Gas · Extends the income tax credit for the purchase of vehicles that run on alternative fuels · Extends the alternative fuel tax credit for compressed natural gas and liquid natural gas · Creates a Natural Gas Vehicle Bond Program - allows state and local governments to issue tax-exempt bonds in order to finance natural gas vehicle and infrastructure projects · Requires federal agencies to purchase alternative fuel vehicles unless the agency can show that alternative fuel is unavailable Nuclear Energy · Authorizes funding to develop the next-generation nuclear workforce · Makes the regulatory process more transparent · Maintains safety requirements · Increases loan-guarantee funding · Provides a 15-year accelerated depreciation period for new nuclear plants, provides a 10 percent investment tax credit and a nuclear-job-creation tax credit · Creates policy to recycle nuclear fuel to harness energy and reduce volume and radioactivity of existing spent nuclear fuel Electric Vehicles Expands the current tax credit for purchasing electric vehicles Extends the current tax credit for charging infrastructure Directs the DOE, EPA and DOT to conduct a study analyzing the barriers to electric-vehicle market penetration Establishes a program to support deployment and integration of electric vehicles in the marketplace Renewable Energy · Extends solar, fuel-cell, microturbine, combined heat-and-power and small-wind investment tax credits through 2019 · Extends production tax credit for wind, refined-coal and marine renewable energy facilities through 2019
06.18.2010	06.18.10 Sens. Burr and Murkowski Urge Administration to Commit All Available Resources to Gulf Spill Cleanup WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) today sent a letter asking the Obama administration what steps it was taking to ensure that all offers by foreign oil-spill response vessels to help clean up the spill in the Gulf of Mexico were accepted. Burr and Murkowski said they are concerned with reports that foreign vessels, including oil skimmers and specialized dredging ships, are being turned away from the Gulf because they lack a waiver to the Jones Act, which restricts the operation of foreign vessels in U.S. waters. U.S. Coast Guard Adm. Thad Allen has requested that Jones Act waivers be granted to foreign ships offering to help clean up the spill - a request Burr and Murkowski fully support. "We need to ensure that everything possible is being done to plug this well and clean up the Gulf," Burr said. "I'm deeply troubled by reports that legitimate offers of help are being turned away by our own government. Waiving the Jones Act is a common-sense step that the president can take to allow us to use every effective tool to contain and clean up the oil." "The urgency and seriousness of the circumstances demand swift and unequivocal responses from our leaders," Murkowski said. "We must have all hands on deck and should not be turning away legitimate offers of help." In their letter, Burr and Murkowski asked the administration for three clarifications: · Has there been any foreign vessel or service that has been made available for response efforts that have been denied such a role for any reason other than its particular function being unnecessary? · Will the administration immediately commit to an expedited waiver system in which all potentially useful foreign vessels are presumed compliant and granted? · Is the administration taking any steps to not only advise but to solicit aid from international asset holders for purposes of this response, including publicizing the expedited waiver guidance documents in relevant seafaring nations and major port cities? Presidential waiving of the Jones Act is not unprecedented. President George W. Bush waived the Jones Act in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita so that foreign countries could send assistance to the region. "If the president is serious about fighting this disaster 'with everything we've got,' then he will allow those who have offered aid to come in and help us," Burr said. "With a massive environmental and economic crisis that is continuing to spread, we don't have the luxury of saying no to honest offers of help."
06.17.2010	06.17.10 Sen. Burr Honors 60th Anniversary of Korean War WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr recognized the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean War and honored veterans with a joint resolution that passed the Senate unanimously last night. The resolution marks the 60th anniversary of June 25, 1950, when communist troops from North Korea crossed the 38th parallel to invade South Korea, killing thousands of civilians and forcing others to seek refuge elsewhere. Over the course of the next three years, almost 1.8 million Americans were deployed to the Pacific and more than 54,000 American servicemen and servicewomen gave their lives. "Despite being called the 'Forgotten War,' the Korean War holds deep historical and strategic significance to our country and to many families," Senator Burr said today. "I am pleased the Senate has approved this Joint Resolution, to not only commemorate the 60th anniversary of the beginning of the Korean War and properly honor those Americans who served proudly in that conflict, but also to recognize the continued resilience and vibrancy of the alliance between our two nations." The resolution declares that Congress: (1) recognizes the historical importance of the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean War, which began on June 25, 1950; (2) honors the noble service and sacrifice of the United States Armed Forces and the armed forces of allied countries that served in Korea since 1950 to the present; (3) encourages all Americans to participate in commemorative activities to pay solemn tribute to, and to never forget, the veterans of the Korean War; (4) and reaffirms the commitment of the United States to its alliance with the Republic of Korea for the betterment of peace and prosperity on the Korean Peninsula. Senator Burr sponsored the resolution. Senators Mark Begich (D-AL), Scott Brown (R-MA), Richard Lugar (R-IN) and John Kerry (D-MA) join him as co-sponsors.
06.10.2010	06.10.10 Atlantic Senators Seek Preparedness in Case BP Oil Spill Hits East Coast ATLANTIC SENATORS SEEK PREPAREDNESS IN CASE BP OIL SPILL HITS EAST COAST Menendez and bipartisan group of 21 colleagues send letter requesting communication between federal response agencies and states, as well as development of long-term prediction models June 10, 2010 WASHINGTON - With some communities along the eastern seaboard concerned that the BP oil spill could reach their waters, a bipartisan group of Atlantic Coast U.S. Senators wants to coordinate preparedness between their states and federal response agencies. In a letter to the heads of the relevant federal departments, Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and 21 of his East Coast colleagues asked specifically for: · Immediate communication with all Atlantic Coast state emergency preparedness agencies to ensure that they can be fully prepared and equipped for the worst case scenario, and · New science-based, long-term projection models that can help determine the statistical probabilities of oil affecting various parts of the Atlantic Coast. Menendez was joined on the letter by Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Jim Webb (D-VA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Ted Kaufman (D-DE), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Scott Brown (R-MA), Mark Warner (D-VA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), John Kerry (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Tom Carper (D-DE), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kay Hagan (D-NC), Jack Reed (D-RI), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD). "Our states' beaches are fully open for the summer season, and at this time, the oil spill does not pose an imminent threat to them," wrote the senators. "However, the health of our shores is too important to be left to chance - not only are they natural treasures, but they are also how many families in our coastal communities earn a living. They add billions of dollars to our states' economies, support millions of jobs and bring enjoyment to millions more families from nearby and across the nation. If there is any real risk to these communities from a spill that right now remains thousands of miles away, we need to know as soon as possible. Furthermore, our state agencies that will partner with federal agencies to protect our shores need to be fully prepared with the information and equipment needed to combat the worst case scenario. Such an effort should begin immediately. Thank you for your hard work to protect the Gulf Coast, and we look forward to collaborating with you." PDF: http://menendez.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/20100610ltr_Atlantic.pdf Text of letter: June 10, 2010 Admiral Thad W. Allen Commandant United States Coast Guard 2100 Second Street, SW Washington, DC 20593 The Honorable Janet Napolitano Secretary United States Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary United States Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Admiral Allen, Secretary Napolitano, and Secretary Locke: As United States Senators representing coastal states along the Atlantic seaboard, we are keeping close watch on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, not only so we can help the residents of that region, but also to assess whether the oil and chemical dispersants might affect the beaches and fisheries in our home states. Some widely-viewed but unofficial projections indicate that parts of the spill could get caught in the Loop Current, which would bring the oil up along the East Coast. This outcome is less than a certainty - it may even be highly unlikely. Nevertheless, we have spoken with residents in our coastal communities who are concerned about the oil and chemical dispersants, and these communities should at the very least be fully prepared for the worst case scenario. To this end, we want the federal government to proactively work to ensure coastal states along the Atlantic seaboard are prepared and to ensure that the public and local governments are given the best science-based information about where the spill might be headed. Specifically, we have two requests: We ask that the Department of Homeland Security immediately begin coordinating with all state emergency preparedness agencies along the Atlantic Coast, providing full information about how best to prepare for managing an oil spill and ensuring that these states are properly equipped for the worst-case scenario. We ask that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration begin developing and disseminating official, science-based predictions about the long-term direction of the oil spill and chemical dispersants, that NOAA make frequent updates to these projections and that they be publicly available. We appreciate the current projections NOAA develops and posts on its website, but these estimates are limited to a 72-hour period. We fully understand that projecting the spill's direction weeks or months in advance is extremely difficult, but it would be helpful to know the statistical probabilities of oil hitting various Atlantic Coast locations. Our states' beaches are fully open for the summer season, and at this time, the oil spill does not pose an imminent threat to them. However, the health of our shores is too important to be left to chance - not only are they natural treasures, but they are also how many families in our coastal communities earn a living. They add billions of dollars to our states' economies, support millions of jobs and bring enjoyment to millions more families from nearby and across the nation. If there is any real risk to these communities from a spill that right now remains thousands of miles away, we need to know as soon as possible. Furthermore, our state agencies that will partner with federal agencies to protect our shores need to be fully prepared with the information and equipment needed to combat the worst case scenario. Such an effort should begin immediately. Thank you for your hard work to protect the Gulf Coast, and we look forward to collaborating with you. Sincerely, ROBERT MENENDEZ BARBARA MIKULSKI KIRSTEN E. GILLIBRAND JIM WEBB RICHARD BURR CHARLES SCHUMER TED KAUFMAN SAXBY CHAMBLISS SCOTT BROWN MARK WARNER JOHNNY ISAKSON JEANNE SHAHEEN JOHN F. KERRY SHELDON WHITEHOUSE TOM CARPER FRANK LAUTENBERG CHRISTOPHER J. DODD SUSAN COLLINS KAY HAGAN JACK REED OLYMPIA SNOWE BENJAMIN CARDIN MEDIA CONTACTS: Menendez Press Office 202-224-4744 Rachel MacKnight (Mikulski) 202-228-1122 Bethany Lesser (Gillibrand) 202-224-3873 Will Jenkins (Webb) 202-228-5258 David Ward (Burr) 202-228-1616 Brian Fallon (Schumer) 202-224-7433 Amy Dudley (Kaufman) 202-224-5042 Bronwyn Lance Chester (Chambliss) 202-224-3423 Colin Reed (Scott Brown) 202-228-4823 Kevin Hall (Warner) 202-224-2425 Colleen Murray (Shaheen) 202-224-5553 Whitney Smith (Kerry) 202-224-4159 Matt Thornton (Whitehouse) 202-228-6293 Emily Spain (Carper) 202-224-2441 Lautenberg Press Office 202-224-3224 Bryan DeAngelis (Dodd) 202-224-5372 Kevin Kelley (Collins) 202-224-2523 Sadie Weiner (Hagan) 202-224-9954 Chip Unruh (Reed) 202-224-4642J ulia Lawless (Snowe) 202-224-5344 Sue Walitsky (Cardin) 202-224-4524
05.10.2010	05.10.10 Sen. Burr Introduces Bill to Relieve Tax Burden for Families of Fallen Servicemembers Senator Burr today introduced the Children of Fallen Warriors AMT Relief Act, legislation that protects children from paying disproportionate taxes on the benefits they receive after the death of a parent who has served in the military. "Our nation's servicemembers and their families have sacrificed enough on our behalf without then being subjected to the alternative minimum tax on their survivor's benefits. That is why I am proud to introduce the Children of Fallen Warriors AMT Relief Act, which will remove the punitive burden that is currently imposed on the children of our fallen heroes by the Alternative Minimum Tax," Sen. Burr said. When it was created, the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was designed to target a few hundred wealthy Americans whose tax benefits resulted in their paying little or no federal income tax. However, since it has not been adjusted to the rate of inflation, it has now expanded to include millions of Americans it was never intended to affect. As a result, Congress is frequently required to pass relief bills. Under the current system, some children who receive an annuity from the Uniformed Services Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) could be subject to a punitive AMT. This unintended consequence can cost the children as much as 26% of their benefit. The bill introduced today corrects the problem by re-classifying the payout for children from the SBP as earned income, and therefore subject to normal taxation rules for wages rather than the higher taxation rate for the AMT.
04.27.2010	04.27.10 Senator Burr Statement on Financial Regulatory Reform Vote Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on S. 3217, financial regulatory reform legislation: "As the current financial crisis has made abundantly clear, we must modernize and strengthen our regulatory framework in a way that ensures accountability, enforcement, and transparency. Unfortunately, the bill we voted on this afternoon falls far short of the commonsense financial regulatory reform that we need. "This bill would constrict the availability of credit to deserving Americans and businesses, which rely on that credit and the formation of capital to create jobs; does nothing to address the risk posed by the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and does not address loopholes allowing regulators to spend unlimited taxpayer-provided funds to prop up firms on the brink of collapse. "While we must improve our financial regulatory system, our goal in Washington should be to pass legislation that encourages job creation and helps Main Street, not stifles it."
04.22.2010	04.22.10 Senate Passes Family Caregiver Bill to Help Wounded Veterans and Their Families Today, the Senate unanimously approved the Caregiver and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010. The legislation, which passed the House of Representatives with unanimous support earlier this week, includes critical provisions offered by Senator Richard Burr, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, that will strengthen support for family caregivers of seriously disabled veterans. It also includes a provision authored by Senator Burr to establish a program of basic dental insurance coverage for veterans. "I'm pleased this important legislation is headed to the President for his signature. The assistance for caregivers will hopefully alleviate some of the challenges families face in caring for a seriously injured veteran at home," Senator Burr said. "I'd like to personally recognize the efforts of two North Carolina families in shaping this legislation: Sarah, wife and caregiver of Ted Wade, as well as Ed Edmundson who, along with other family members, quit his job to take care of his son Eric. Ted and Eric would be in nursing homes without their families' support. Their personal experiences and advocacy for family caregivers nationwide have made this day possible." The centerpiece of the bill establishes new assistance for the family caregivers of seriously disabled veterans, including training and certification required to meet the veteran's needs, access to ongoing support services, counseling and mental health services, respite care, medical care, and a monthly personal caregiver allowance. The bill would also direct VA to establish a pilot dental insurance program for veterans. The Burr provision is modeled after the successful dental insurance program that exists for retired TRICARE beneficiaries. "Healthy teeth are an important part of overall health, and our veterans should have access to affordable dental care," Burr said. "This program will open up options for coverage to many veterans who may now have none." The bill would also enhance health care for women veterans, delivery of health care for veterans living in rural areas, access to mental health care for veterans and certain servicemembers, and would make improvements in homeless programs.
04.21.2010	04.21.10 Military Officers Association of America Honors Sen. Burr MOAA awards Senator Burr for work to relieve burden of relocations Last night, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) received the 2010 Colonel Arthur T. Marix Congressional Leadership Award for his work in support of America's men and women in uniform, their military families, and for his work in championing the Military Spouse Residency Relief Act. The award was sponsored by the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), an organization of active duty, National Guard, Reserve, former and retired military officers and surviving spouses with over 370,000 members nationwide. "The strength of our nation's military force depends on the strength of military families," Senator Burr said. "Military families provide the support our men and women in uniform need to do their job, and it is incumbent on us to make their lives easier as they undergo frequent relocations and deployments. Allowing military spouses to have equal residency rights and to help them advance their careers and find employment opportunities despite frequent relocations are just small ways that we can make their lives just a little bit easier. I'm deeply appreciative of this award and humbled to be a part of creating policy that benefits families who sacrifice every day for our nation's well-being." "The top award that MOAA presented to Senator Burr recognizes the highest caliber of leadership, dedication, and love of country," said Retired U.S. Marine Corps Gen. Richard I. Neal, Chairman of MOAA's Board of Directors. "It also recognizes the desire for a strong national defense, and—most importantly—steadfast support for the uniformed men and women who make that strong defense a reality." Last year, Senator Burr introduced the Military Spouse Residency Relief Act, which was signed into law on Veterans Day in 2009. This bill allows military spouses to maintain or change residency when their family relocates due to military orders. Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE), Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and Representative John Carter (R-TX) were honored alongside Senator Burr as co-recipients for their work on behalf of the veteran community.
04.20.2010	04.20.10 Sen. Burr Introduces Bill to Increase Employment of Military Spouses Tax incentive encourages greater opportunity for employers, employees Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced the Military Spouse Employment Act, legislation that will encourage employers to hire qualified military spouses by expanding the Workforce Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) to include military families. "Military spouses are among our nation's most valuable assets," Senator Burr said. "These men and women are already sacrificing for our country, and we can't let the hard facts of military life like relocations get in the way of their career and financial support for their families. By encouraging employers to hire military spouses, this tax incentive results in big returns with just a small investment." The Senator introduced this bill in light of recent studies that show that military spouses traditionally earn less income and have higher unemployment rates than their civilian counterparts due to frequent relocations. Using the WOTC would allow an employer to claim a tax credit of 40% of the first $6,000 in wages paid during the worker's first year of employment. This legislation has the support of the Military Coalition, an alliance representing 5.5 million members in 35 organizations including AMVETS, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Military Officers Association of America. Representative John Carter (R-TX) introduced the House version of the bill (H.R. 4764) in March 2010.
04.07.2010	04.07.10 Burr Announces Events for April 8-11 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Buncombe, McDowell, Yadkin, and Guilford, Mecklenburg, and Wake counties between April 8 and April 11. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Thursday, April 8 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Unison Engine Components 401 Sweeten Creek Industrial Park Asheville, NC 28803 *Donna Dailey (828) 274-4540 x2226 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to Marion Rotary Club Marion Community Building 191 N. Main Street Marion, NC 28752 3:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Reynolda Manufactoring 1200 Flint Hill Road East Bend, NC 27018 Friday, April 9 9:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at Rotary Shadow Day lunch Koury Convention Center 3121 High Point Road Greensboro, NC 27407 Saturday, April 10 10:15 AM Senator Burr to speak at North American YMCA Development Conference Main Ballroom of Westin Hotel 601 South College Street Charlotte, NC 28202 Sunday, April 11 2:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at National Guard Welcome Home ceremony RBC Center 1400 Edwards Mill Road Raleigh, NC
04.05.2010	04.05.10 Burr Announces Events for April 6-9 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Transylvania, Macon, Clay, Cherokee, Graham, Swain, Buncombe, McDowell, Yadkin, and Guilford counties between April 6 and April 9. The events will focus on veterans' affairs and economic development. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Tuesday, April 6 9:00 AM Senator Burr to attend Transylvania Chamber of Commerce breakfast The Porter Center at Brevard College 1 Brevard College Drive Brevard, NC 28712 12:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Franklin VA Clinic Franklin Community Based Outpatient Clinic 647 Wayah Street Franklin, NC 28734 2:00 PM Senator Burr to visit TekTone 277 Industrial Park Road Franklin, NC 28734 *Brad Hyder (828) 524-9967 4:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Drug Free Clay Event Coalition for a Safe and Drug Free Clay 964 NC 69, Suite 4 Hayesville, NC 28904 Wednesday, April 7 8:30 AM Senator Burr to attend Cherokee County Chamber breakfast Center For Applied Technology, 2415 Airport Road, in Marble 11:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Stanley Furniture 68 Snowbird Road Robbinsville, NC 28771 *Randy Everhart (828) 479-1145 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Consolidated Metco 1821 Highway 19 S. Bryson City, NC 28713 *Greg McCoy (828) 488-3888 Thursday, April 8 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Unison Engine Components 401 Sweeten Creek Industrial Park Asheville, NC 28803 *Donna Dailey (828) 274-4540 x2226 3:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Reynolda Manufactoring 1200 Flint Hill Road East Bend, NC 27018 Friday, April 9 9:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at Rotary Shadow Day lunch Koury Convention Center 3121 High Point Road Greensboro, NC 27407
03.31.2010	03.31.10 Burr Statement on President’s Offshore Exploration Announcement Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the president's energy announcement: "The President's announcement is a step, albeit a small one, towards addressing America's energy needs. I am hopeful it will be followed by administration action to address delayed lease sales and denied permits. All of our nation's resources need to be on the table, including alternative energy sources, nuclear power, and onshore and offshore production of natural gas. If resources off the coast of North Carolina can be produced responsibly, they should be part of the solution."
03.26.2010	03.26.10 Burr Announces Events for March 29 – April 2 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will travel to Guilford, Chatham, Lee, New Hanover, Wake, Durham, and Moore counties between March 29 and April 2.The events will focus on veterans' affairs and economic development.Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, March 29 9:00 AMSenator Burr to visit and tour General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems 5440 Millstream Road McLeansville, NC27301 *Rob Doolittle 703-876-3199 12:00 PMSenator Burr to speak to Siler City Rotary Club West Chatham Senior Center 112 Village Lake Road Siler City, NC 27344 2:30 PMSenator Burr to visit Static Control Components Corporation 3010 Lee Ave. Sanford, NC 27332 *Rhonda Coggins (800) 356-2728 Tuesday, March 30 1:00 PMSenator Burr to attend DAV townhall meeting in Wilmington Elks Lodge 5102 Oleander Drive Wilmington, NC 28403 * Ron Holtberg (910) 313-2190 3:00 PMSenator Burr to attend ribbon cutting at TranS1 301 Government Center Drive Wilmington, NC Wednesday, March 31 9:30 AMSenator Burr to attend Wal-Mart/NC Heroes Fund Check Presentation VFW Post 7383 522 Reedy Creek Road Cary, NC 27513 1:00 PMSenator Burr to visit GE Aviation 3701 S. Miami Blvd Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 *Shannon Thompson (513) 243 2915 3:30 PMSenator Burr to visit Eisai 900 Davis Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 *Lynn Kenney (201) 746-2294 Thursday, April 1 9:00 AMSenator Burr to visit LORD Corporation 111 Lord Drive Cary, NC 27511 *Lucy Lambert (919) 468-5979 10:30 AMSenator Burr to visit US Food Services, Inc. 1500 NC Highway 39 Zebulon, NC 27597 *Christina Koliopoulos (847) 720-8304 12:30 PMSenator Burr to speak to Fuquay-Varina Rotary Club Golden Corral 1420 East Broad Street Fuquay-Varina, NC 27526
03.26.2010	03.26.10 Burr Proposal to Protect Healthcare for Veterans and Military Families Clears Senate Today, the United States Senate passed legislation cosponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to correct serious technical errors in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that put veterans, widows and widowers, and certain dependents at risk. "Our nation's veterans and their families have sacrificed of themselves on behalf of our security, and we owe them the best health care available," Burr said. "I was proud to cosponsor this legislation that will protect the health care that these individuals have earned through their service to our nation."Under the Democrats' health reform bill, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, "minimum essential coverage" requirements for health insurance did not clearly include TRICARE; the VA Spina Bifida Program for children of Agent Orange veterans; and CHAMPVA, a health care program for spouses and dependent children of veterans who died, or are profoundly disabled, as a result of military service. Senator Burr was concerned that without a change in the language of President Obama's broad sweeping healthcare reform provisions, these beneficiaries could have been required to pay for additional insurance. With the support of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, and Disabled American Veterans, Senator Burr offered an amendment to the health care reconciliation bill to maintain the integrity of the health care systems of the VA and the DOD and ensure that the authority of the Secretary of the Department of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs would not be obstructed by any provision in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Senator Burr's amendment also ensured that nothing in the Democrats' health bill would affect benefits provided under TRICARE or VA health care programs and that "minimum essential coverage" under the Democrats' health reform bill would include coverage under TRICARE and all VA health care programs. Burr's raising of the issue spurred a bi-partisan effort to advance legislation to the President for signature. Senator Burr and Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI) worked closely to resolve differences between the original Burr proposal and the language ultimately agreed to by the Senate.
03.21.2010	03.21.10 Burr Statement on House Passage of Health Care Bill Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on House passage of the health care bill that passed the Senate in December: "Despite being marketed as a health care reform bill, the legislation that passed today amounts to nothing more than a massive expansion of the federal government. It fails to deliver on the promise to lower health care costs, and will instead actually increase costs for many Americans. It also imposes new taxes, fees, and penalties, which will fall on the backs of hard-working Americans who are already struggling in this difficult economy. "The American people spoke, but unfortunately, Washington didn't listen. The only winner in this deal is the federal government."
03.18.2010	03.18.10 Burr Resolution Recognizing Day to Honor Vietnam Vets Passes Senate Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, announced that a resolution he introduced encouraging communities across the nation to establish "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" was passed unanimously by the United States Senate. The resolution designates March 30, 2010, as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day," to honor the return home of our armed service members after serving in Vietnam. "There's no question that our troops served our country bravely and faithfully during the Vietnam War, and these veterans deserve our recognition and gratitude," Burr said. "Tragically, when these service members returned home, they were caught in the crossfire of public debate about our nation's involvement in the Vietnam War. As a result, these brave men and women never received the welcome home and gratitude they fully deserved." The United States became involved in Vietnam because policy-makers believed that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia. The US Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam. After many years of combat, all US troops were withdrawn from Vietnam on March 30, 1973, under the terms of the Treaty of Paris. Therefore, March 30, 2010, is an appropriate day to establish "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day." More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam.
03.11.2010	03.11.10 Burr Statement on Nomination of Catherine Eagles to U.S. District Court Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the nomination of Judge Catherine Eagles to the United States District Court, Middle District of North Carolina. "The President has nominated a well-qualified candidate for the Middle District in Judge Eagles, and I look forward to working with her as she goes through the confirmation process." Currently, Judge Eagles sits as Senior Resident Superior Court Judge of the North Carolina Superior Court, 18th Judicial District.
03.11.2010	03.11.10 Burr Introduces “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Resolution Legislation to honor service members who fought in Vietnam Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced a resolution in support of the establishment of "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day." Designating March 30, 2010, as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" honors the return home of our armed service members after serving in Vietnam. "There's no question that our troops served our country bravely and faithfully during the Vietnam War, and these veterans deserve our recognition and gratitude," Burr said. "Unfortunately, when these service members returned home, they were caught in the crossfire of public debate about our nation's involvement in the Vietnam War. As a result, these brave men and women never received the welcome reception and recognition they deserved." "We owe all of our Veterans a debt of gratitude for their service to this nation," Senator Inhofe said. "That is why I am so committed to fighting for veteran issues, and that includes honoring those who have worn our nation's uniform. I am pleased to join my colleagues in support of this resolution honoring those who served in the Vietnam War. Sadly, many of them were greeted with jeers instead of cheers when they returned home. It is my hope that our military members are never again treated this way, and this resolution takes a step in that direction by correcting the past." The United States became involved in Vietnam because policy-makers believed that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia.The US Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam.After many years of combat, all US troops were withdrawn from Vietnam on March 30, 1973, under the terms of the Treaty of Paris. Therefore, March 30, 2010, is an appropriate day to establish "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day." More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam. The establishment of a "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" would serve as a small way to honor these men and women who served our country in Vietnam throughout the war.
03.11.2010	03.11.10 Burr Statement on Re-Opening of MyCAA Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Department of Defense's decision to reinstate the Military Spouse Career Advancement Accounts (MyCAA) program which provided educational benefits to military spouses: "I am pleased to hear that the Department of Defense has announced it will reinstate MyCAA for spouses who are currently in the program after abruptly halting the program almost a month ago. I remain concerned, however, that the Defense Department has not indicated when it will allow new spouses to participate in the program. I intend to work with DOD officials to see that they enable all military spouses the opportunity to participate in this program so that they can further their education. These spouses support our men and women in the Armed Forces, and at a time when we are demanding so much from our military families, the My Career Advancement Accounts program is a small token of our appreciation and support for their sacrifices." At the time of its termination on February 16, 2010, MyCAA was providing educational assistance to over 50,000 military spouses. A copy of the letter Senator Burr sent to Secretary Gates is attached.
03.10.2010	03.10.10 Burr Thanked for Leadership on Alzheimer’s Legislation Presented Chairman’s Award on behalf of the Alzheimer’s Association Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) received the Chairman's Award from the Alzheimer's Association at their National Gala for his leadership and support of the Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act, of which he is a co-sponsor. Also honored at the event were Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), ABC's Terry Moran, actress Soleil Moon Frye, and Alzheimer's researcher and Director of the Center for Aging and Diversity at the University of North Carolina's Institute on Aging, Peggye Dilworth-Anderson. "It is truly an honor to accept this award, but I am even more honored to be surrounded by so many people who have committed themselves to working tirelessly to improve the care and treatments for those stricken with this disease, and ultimately find a cure," Senator Burr said. "We all dream of a world where Alzheimer's no longer poses a threat to us and our loved ones." S. 1492, the Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act, would authorize a comprehensive research effort on Alzheimer's disease at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), including research focusing on early diagnosis methods, therapies to prevent, detect and treat Alzheimer's, and better ways to help caregivers of those suffering from the disease. To better support Alzheimer's patients and their families, the bill would also establish a toll-free Alzheimer Call Center to provide advice, consultation, information, and referrals for caregivers. The bill would also extend the Alzheimer Care State Matching Grant Program, a joint federal-state effort to provide care to Alzheimer's patients, including improving access to home-and community-based long-term care services.Currently over 5 million Americans, including 200,000 North Carolinians, suffer from Alzheimer's disease.
03.04.2010	03.04.10 Burr Introduces Bill to Stop Automatic Pay Raise for Congress Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced a bill that would stop Congress from receiving a pay increase in 2011. Senators Vitter (R-LA), Coburn (R-OK), Isakson (R-GA), and Thune (R-SD) are original cosponsors. "Nearly every year, with little discussion or recorded vote, members of the House and Senate get a pay increase," Senator Burr said. "It is not right for Congress to automatically receive a pay raise when the American people are struggling. Seniors on Social Security and veterans did not get a cost-of-living increase this year. With Americans across the nation tightening their belts in these tough economic times, Congress needs to follow suit." Under current law, Congress automatically gets a pay increase every year unless it votes to disapprove of the raise. Congress blocked its pay raise for 2010, but members will receive an increase in 2011 unless action is taken. A bill to repeal automatic pay raises altogether has passed the Senate and was sent to the House of Representatives, but no further action has been taken. "If the Congressional Majority leadership refuses to give the bill ending automatic pay increases any real legislative attention, at the very least they should commit to not giving themselves raises this year," Senator Burr added.
03.02.2010	03.02.10 Burr Thanked for ‘Going to Bat’ for Disabled Vets DAV awards Burr for his work improving veterans health care Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, met with a group of 16 Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Chapter Commanders and representatives from North Carolina in his Washington office. The group presented Senator Burr with an award on behalf of DAV in appreciation of his leadership in ensuring that sufficient and predictable funding be provided for the health care services for America's veterans. The award, a DAV baseball bat, is inscribed with the Senator's name, title, and a brief message of appreciation concluding with "Thank you for going to bat for veterans." "DAV is a great champion for the many issues facing our nation's veterans today, and I am honored to accept this award," Senator Burr said. "As Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, I will continue to work with DAV and other veterans service organizations to provide the services and access to health care that America's veterans earned through their service and sacrifice." DAV is a 1.2 million-member charity dedicated to improving the lives of America's disabled veterans and their families. The group was founded in 1920 by disabled World War I veterans. In 1932, DAV was congressionally chartered as the official voice of America's wartime disabled veterans.
02.01.2010	02.01.10 Burr Statement on Fiscal Year 2011 Budget U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement on the President's proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2011: "The $3.8 trillion federal budget released by the White House today is not only historic in size, but ignores our growing debt obligation that will suffocate the next generation. It contains billions of dollars in new spending and higher taxes for American families and businesses. The American people are rightfully very upset with the level of spending and growing debt coming out of Washington. It is time we stop passing the responsibility to future generations and make the tough decisions necessary to get our spending habits under control."
01.08.2010	01.08.10 Burr Signs Letter Calling for Transparency in Health Care Negotiations U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) yesterday signed a letter sent to Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) urging him to make the health care negotiations transparent moving forward.The letter addresses the lack of openness in health care discussions thus far and encourages the Majority Leader to make good on promises to allow the American people a seat at the table in the upcoming negotiations between the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives. "Despite promises of openness made by both the President and the Majority Leader, this process has been characterized by a lack of transparency from the start," Senator Burr said."Meetings have not been taking place in committee rooms or other open forums aired on C-SPAN. Instead, they have taken place behind closed doors, keeping most of Congress and the American people in the dark. "Health care reform will affect every single American, and it is time we let the sunshine in and have an open debate about the contents of whatever deals are being made." The letter was signed by all 40 Republicans in the Senate.Its text is below. Dear Majority Leader Reid: As you know, the American public has been paying close attention to the health care debates in both chambers of Congress. This important issue affects one-sixth of the American economy, and the changes made by Congress will affect every American family, individual, and business for years to come. Previous rhetoric about transparency has thus far amounted to broken promises to the American people. In the coming weeks, we ask for increased transparency in the process of merging the House-passed bill and the Senate-passed bill. Closed door negotiations and unprecedented special provisions in exchange for votes do not meet the expectations of the American people. Numerous Senators have reiterated the need for transparency and the President himself noted in August of 2008 that: "I'm going to have all the negotiations around a big table. We'll have doctors and nurses and hospital administrators. Insurance companies, drug companies -- they'll get a seat at the table, they just won't be able to buy every chair. But what we will do is, we'll have the negotiations televised on C-SPAN, so that people can see who is making arguments on behalf of their constituents, and who are making arguments on behalf of the drug companies or the insurance companies. And so, that approach, I think is what is going to allow people to stay involved in this process." To ensure that the American people have the ability to witness the on-going negotiations between the House and Senate, we ask that any negotiations regarding a final health care reform bill be conducted in the light of day. The Chairman of C-SPAN, the network responsible for broadcasting the deliberations of Congress, has offered resources to cover all negotiation sessions live. We urge you to take him up on this offer. We look forward to your response and the commitment that the American people can expect full transparency as you work with Speaker Pelosi and White House officials to merge the House and Senate-passed health care bills.
12.24.2009	12.24.09 Burr Statement on Senate Passage of Democrats’ Health Care Bill U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) made the following statement regarding today's passage of Majority Leader Reid's health care bill: "Despite being marketed as a health care reform bill, the legislation we voted on today is nothing more than a massive expansion of the federal government. We have already learned about some of the budget gimmicks employed to deceive the American public about the true cost of this bill, and I fear that in the months and years to come, we will learn more and more about its destructive and irreversible consequences. The only winner in this deal is the federal government."
12.19.2009	12.19.09 Burr Statement on the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) made the following statement regarding Department of Defense funding bill: "I have always been proud to vote for the funding of our troops and our national defense. However, I am disappointed that this year, the defense funding bill is filled with spending that is unrelated and not offset through savings elsewhere in the government. I cannot support a funding bill that spends $18 billion on unrelated spending that is not paid for. "Additionally, this bill shortchanges our troops, including thousands from North Carolina, by not providing any funding for the surge into Afghanistan. I support the President's strategy, but we must provide our troops with the resources they need to complete their mission. In a time of war, for Congress to ignore this funding shows a disregard for the servicemen and women who are away from their families this holiday season fighting on our behalf. I am also disappointed that Congress decided to devote resources to buying planes for junkets rather than fund our troops in the surge. "I remain supportive of fixing the physician reimbursements, and appreciate that it is paid for, but physicians need the issue fixed permanently and not just extended for several months at a time."
12.17.2009	12.17.09 Burr Introduces Child Care Protection Act of 2009 Legislation will require comprehensive background checks for child care providers Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with U.S. Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), introduced the Child Care Protection Act of 2009. This legislation requires comprehensive background checks for child care providers including state and federal fingerprint checks, sex offender registry checks, and a check of child abuse and neglect registries for all licensed, regulated, and registered child care providers. "When parents leave their children in the care of someone else, they want to know their children are in a safe place," Burr said. "Current requirements for background checks do not meet parents' expectations, and most states fail to ensure that child care providers have undergone a complete and thorough background check. This bill will reassure parents that their children are being taken care of by qualified individuals in a safe environment." Requirments for background checks vary greatly from state to state, and only a handful of states require child care providers to complete a comprehensive background check. As of December 2008, only 25 states conduct a federal and state fingerprint check and only 15 states require a check of sex offender registry. Under this legislation all states will be required to complete comprehensive background checks for child care providers and to repeat those background checks every 5 years. More than 11 million children under age 5 are in some type of child care arrangement every week while their parents work. A parent survey conducted by the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies (NACCRRA) found that 80 percent of parents assumed that child care providers must have a background check to work with children. "When working parents enroll their children in child care they shouldn't have to worry that they might be dropping their child off to be cared for by someone who has been convicted of a violent crime," Burr added. "Parents should be able to rest easy knowing that their child care provider does not have a criminal record with a history of violent offenses."
12.10.2009	12.10.09 Burr Statement on the Nomination for U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) made the following statement regarding the nomination for U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. "It has always been my policy not to release or publically discuss judicial recommendations made to the White House. I believe the nominees deserve fair consideration with as little outside influence as possible where decisions can be made on their qualifications and merit. The recent decision to replace US Attorney George Holding at a pivotal time in ongoing investigations demands that I make an exception to that policy in this case. "In July, I wrote to the President with my recommendations for judicial positions in North Carolina. Included in those recommendations was Thomas Walker. Regarding the US Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina, I told the President that the current US Attorney, George Holding, should be permitted to remain in his position pending the completion of an ongoing law enforcement investigation and legal action involving political corruption in North Carolina. "I believe Thomas Walker, who was nominated by the President to be Mr. Holding's successor, is well-qualified to serve as US Attorney, and I support his nomination. It is clear, though, that political contributions made by Mr. Walker to the former North Carolina elected officials currently under investigation represent a conflict of interest, and would potentially require his recusal from those very investigations. Given the importance of these investigations to the people of North Carolina, and in the interest of good governance and transparency, I believe the investigations must be directed by and have the full attention of the US Attorney, and the US Attorney himself must have the full faith of the people of North Carolina. I have concluded that other options in this case are not feasible, nor would they be acceptable to the people of North Carolina. "As such, I have informed the President through the White House Counsel that I intend to withhold Thomas Walker's blue slip, until the current investigations and subsequent legal actions are concluded. Upon conclusion of those investigations by Mr. Holding, I will sign Mr. Walker's blue slip. Delaying this nomination will ensure that the investigations and potential prosecutions will proceed with impartiality, and in turn provide the public with full confidence that justice is served in an even-handed manner. At the same time, it will allow Mr. Walker to start his tenure as U.S. Attorney free from any unfair specter of speculation and cynicism."
12.08.2009	12.08.09 Burr Statement on the President’s Plan to Reassign TARP Money U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) made the following statement regarding the President's plan to use bailout money for more wasteful spending. "The President's announcement today that he would like to use up to $200 billion in TARP funds for more stimulus projects shows just how out of touch this Administration really is. The American people were promised that repaid TARP money would be used to reduce the national debt. Furthermore, the 10% unemployment rate is proof that the promises made about the $800 billion stimulus did not pan out. It is clear the American people do not want the federal government to break even more promises by spending more money on more government waste. Rather than continuing the reckless spending spree and adding to the national debt, Congress and this Administration need to prioritize spending and start making the same difficult decisions that American families are making across the country."
12.02.2009	12.02.09 Burr Statement on President Obama’s Announcement on Afghanistan Strategy U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) made the following statement regarding President Obama's announcement on his strategy for the war in Afghanistan. "I am encouraged that President Obama supports an increase in American troop levels in Afghanistan, in accordance with the requests of our highest-ranking military officials on the ground there. What is even more important than the overall number committed, however, is that they be the right blend of troops with the appropriate training and skills to accomplish our mission so that we can place the future of Afghanistan back into the hands of the Afghan people. On a trip to Afghanistan last month, I had the opportunity to meet with our military commanders, as well as the troops in the field, and heard firsthand their desire to win and come home quickly. The President's decision is a step in the right direction."
11.19.2009	11.19.09 Burr Statement on the Reid Health Care Reform Bill U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, made the following statement on the health care bill released yesterday by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. "Last night, Senate Democrats unveiled the latest version of the health care bill. While I have not yet had time to review this 2,074 page bill in its entirety, what I have read so far makes clear this bill is yet another attempt by Washington Democrats to take over our nation's health care system. The bill cuts Medicare benefits for seniors, increases taxes on small businesses, dramatically increases federal spending, and puts government bureaucrats between patients and their doctors. "Even after months of promises that a health care bill would reduce health care costs, the Congressional Budget Office acknowledges this bill will actually increase costs. We were also promised a health care bill would not include any deficit spending, but it is abundantly clear that the real ten-year cost of the bill - $2.5 trillion - poses a significant threat to our nation's fiscal situation. "This is not the kind of health reform I can support. It is certainly not the kind of health reform that the American people want. I oppose the bill, and I will work to see it does not become law. I agree we need health care reform, but this bill is not the answer." To read through the bill, please clickhere.
11.18.2009	11.18.09 Burr Food Safety Bill Approved by HELP Committee Today, S. 510, the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), passed out of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. This bill strengthens and modernizes FDA's tools to better protect our nation's food supply, improving the abilities of the FDA to quickly and effectively respond to food-borne health threats. "Americans are all too familiar with the nationwide outbreaks and recalls in recent years that have resulted in illnesses across the country." Senator Burr said. "In addition to the health concerns, these incidents also had a significant economic impact on American growers and producers across our nation. I applaud the hard work of my colleagues on the HELP committee in addressing this issue and making food safety legislation a priority. This piece of legislation is essential to protect our nation's food supply and keep Americans safe and healthy." Specifically, the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act would improve the ability of the FDA to detect and respond to food-borne illnesses by evaluating safety threats at food facilities, increase scrutiny of imported foods, and explore ways to track fruits and vegetables in the case of an outbreak. It would also give the FDA the authority to issue a mandatory recall of an article of food if it determines that there is a reasonable probability that it is adulterated and will cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. This bill also includes a bipartisan amendment by Senator Burr, cosponsored by Senator Bennet (D-CO), that would address concerns expressed by farmers and small businesses by ensuring consultation, education, and outreach on behalf of the FDA with farms, businesses, and farmers who sell directly to consumers to help them understand and comply with produce safety requirements. This amendment, which would require the FDA to hold public meetings in various locations across the country, has been endorsed by the American Farm Bureau Federation. "It is imperative that we utilize the established relationships that our Cooperative Extension Service, State Departments of Agriculture, and Land Grant Universities have with small, medium, and large growers to communicate the goals of this legislation and to help smaller growers understand the new regulations," Senator Burr added."Additionally, having FDA provide national training standards for States will ensure that the folks on the ground are adequately prepared to carry out the national food safety mission."
11.17.2009	11.17.09 Burr Amendment to Combat Veterans Homelessness Passes Unanimously Last night, the United States Senate passed an amendment sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, to provide an additional $750,000 for services for homeless veterans. This amendment, which was agreed to unanimously, will provide funding for housing assistance and supportive services for veterans suffering from homelessness. "Our veterans served our country with honor and they should not be forgotten when they return home," Burr said. "Helping homeless veterans get off the street and back on their feet is our obligation, and this funding is an important step in that direction. Also, since the funding is offset, it will not add to our federal deficit." The funding allocated by this amendment will benefit the Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) Homeless Provider Grant and Per Diem program and VA's Supportive Services Grants program. This money will go to help more than 131,000 veterans who are homeless on any given night including the estimated 1,659 homeless veterans in North Carolina. Last year, Senator Burr authored the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act, a bill that authorized grants to address the issue of preventing veteran homelessness. This legislation was signed into law last year as part of the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008. Under the Burr legislation, VA can make grants to provide supportive services that will keep low-income veterans, who are at risk of becoming homeless, in permanent housing.
11.13.2009	11.13.09 Burr Statement on the President’s Decision to Bring 9/11 Terrorists to the U.S. Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement in response to the Administration's announcement that Khalid Sheik Mohammed and four of his 9/11 co-conspirators will be tried in a civilian Federal court in New York. "I am disappointed to learn of the President's decision to bring Khalid Sheik Mohammed and four of his co-defendants to New York to be tried in federal court. These are some of the most dangerous terrorists in the world; I find it shocking that the Administration would choose to bring the self-proclaimed mastermind of the September 11 attacks to our shores. "Military Commissions were designed in a bipartisan effort specifically to provide terrorists a fair trial in a secure facility - without bringing them to our neighborhoods - and without undermining national security with exposure of sensitive information in civilian courts. Release of that information, including the possible disclosure of the sources and methods used to gather intelligence, puts American lives - civilian and military - at risk."
11.11.2009	11.11.09 President Signs Burr Bill to Grant Residency Rights to Military Spouses Today, S. 475, the Military Spouse Residency Relief Act, a bill introduced by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), was signed into law. This bill will allow military spouses to maintain or change residency when their family relocates due to military orders. Rep. John Carter (R-TX) sponsored the bill in the House. "I am pleased to see this important legislation signed into law. Military families are often asked to move, and it is only fair that we give the same residency benefits to spouses as we give to active duty personnel," Senator Burr said. "This bill represents one small way we can help ease the burden of military families, who make sacrifices everyday to support our men and women in uniform." Military men and women have the ability to claim a state of residence and maintain that residency regardless of where military orders may send them. Unfortunately, military spouses are not granted this same benefit. In addition to the stress of frequent relocations, this inequality means that military spouses are less likely to have their names on deeds and titles of family property, leaving many feeling like second class citizens. The Military Spouses Residency Relief Act gives a military spouse who moves out of state because of military orders the option to claim one state of domicile, regardless of where they move. This bill makes the move from station to station easier, removing the need to file tax returns for multiple states and change vehicle and voter registrations with each move. "Today's signing of this bill is a victory for our military spouses and their families," Burr added. "At a time when we are demanding so much from our military families, this bill will make their lives and constant transitions a little easier."
11.10.2009	11.10.09 VETERANS DAY 2009 This past May, I visited the Normandy American Cemetery, and stood on the emerald green bluffs overlooking what is still called "Omaha Beach". For over six decades, the cold water of the English Channel has ebbed and flowed over the stretch of sand that once bore the weight of young American soldiers. Many of those courageous men never made it off the beach, and many more did not survive the bloody skirmishes and grueling battles in the weeks and months that laid ahead. Their buddies, the lucky ones, came home to a grateful nation, weary of war, but steeled by certain victory. Although those lucky ones had been forever changed by what they had seen and experienced, they simply wanted to move forward, like the nation that received them, with modesty and no regrets. They married, had children, went back to school on the G.I. Bill, and became the indispensable backbone of our communities, businesses, and government. Recently, I met some of those indispensable men when over a hundred World War Two veterans from North Carolina visited Washington D.C. to be recognized at the national memorial built in their honor. Now in their eighties and nineties, they possess the grace and quiet reserve of men and women who have nothing left to prove to one another and to the nation that treasures their fleeting presence. Walking beside them with a steady arm or nudging their wheel chairs from behind were uniformed men and women of today's Armed Forces, many of them veterans of recent conflicts. The older veterans had come of age when every able bodied man and woman was expected to serve, when war demanded a mobilization the likes of which we may never see again. The younger ones of today's wars are all volunteers, representing and defending a diverse and often distracted nation of over three hundred million people. For over six decades, the American people and our government have honored our solemn obligation to the Greatest Generation, but we have much work remaining to honor our compact with their sons and daughters and their grandsons and granddaughters who serve our nation in uniform today. This Veterans Day, we remind ourselves that the enduring fabric of this republic was protected by the men and women in the World War against fascism, preserved by those who served during the Cold War to stem communism, and it is kept strong and vibrant today by the deeds of a new generation confronting tyranny and terrorism. This current generation knows the heartache of watching children wave goodbye for the third or fourth time in as many years, the frustration and anger of losing friends in an instant, and the painstaking, bittersweet taste of small victories that will never make the nightly news. They are coming back quietly to a grateful, but unfamiliar nation that many of them do not recognize. Their return home from war and the delicate and complex process of healing and returning to society is occurring at the same time this nation is distracted by economic anxiety. In this uncertain time, those of us who have not served and who are removed from the military culture must remember that these men and women are a resilient bunch, but they risk falling through the cracks without effective outreach and cooperation. Working on behalf of veterans can be tough, unglamorous, and unappreciated, but it is essential that we keep our promise to those who are living out their years in a nursing home or hospital, recuperating from wounds, or trying to cope with the lingering stress of combat. The boundless energy, dogged determination, and innovative ideas that come from our veteran organizations, local communities, charities, and within government must be encouraged and allowed to flourish. Our mission as citizens is to do what we can to ensure veterans are treated with respect, receive the care and support they deserve, and are again inspired to accomplish great things for the nation in the years to come. President Calvin Coolidge once said that the nation that forgets its defenders will itself be forgotten. I, for one, promise never to forget the sacrifices our veterans have made on our behalf. God bless America, and God bless her defenders.
11.06.2009	11.06.09 Burr Announces Events for November 9 - 12 U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Forsyth, Mecklenburg, and Buncombe counties from November 9 - 12, 2009. The events will focus on education, economic development, and veterans issues. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, November 9th 10:30 AMSenator Burr to present Medals to the Family of Lester Thomas 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC 27104 4:00 PMSenator Burr to visit TIAA-CREF Southern Service Center *For any questions regarding this event please contact Chad Peterson, Director of MediaRelations (704) 988-6811 8500 Andrew Carnegie Blvd. Charlotte, NC 28262 Wednesday, November 11th 2:00 PM Senator Burr to attend the Western North Carolina Veterans' Memorial Dedication Downtown Asheville Thursday, November 12th 9:30 AM Senator Burr to speak to students at Erwin High School 60 Lees Creek Rd. Asheville, NC 28806 12:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Asheville Rotary Club Renaissance Hotel 31 Woodfin Street Asheville, NC
11.02.2009	11.02.09 House Passes Burr Bill to Grant Residency Rights to Military Spouses Bill would ease the burden on military families when they are transferred Today, the House of Representatives passed S. 475, the Military Spouse Residency Relief Act, a bill introduced by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to allow military spouses to maintain or change residency when their family relocates due to military orders. Rep. John Carter (R-TX) sponsored the bill in the House. The bill is now headed to the President's desk. "Our military families are often called on to make frequent relocations, and it is only fair that we give the same residency benefits to spouses as we do to servicemembers," Senator Burr said. "This legislation is one small way we can help ease the burden of military families, who make sacrifices everyday to support our men and women in uniform and to keep our country safe." Military men and women have the ability to claim a state of residence and maintain that residency regardless of where military orders may send them. Unfortunately, military spouses are not granted this same benefit. In addition to the stress of frequently relocating, this inequality means that military spouses are less likely to have their names on deeds and titles of family property, leaving many feeling like second class citizens. The Military Spouses Residency Relief Act would give a military spouse who moves out of state because of military orders the option to claim one state of domicile, regardless of where they move. This bill makes the move from station to station easier, removing the need to update drivers' licenses, filing tax returns for multiple states, and changing vehicle and voter registrations with each move. "The passage of this bill today is a victory for our military spouses and their families," Burr added. "At a time when we are demanding so much from our military families, this bill will make their lives and constant transitions a little easier."
10.20.2009	10.20.09 Senate Passes Extension of Life-Saving HIV/AIDS Act Legislation ensures funding goes to those with the greatest need Yesterday, the Senate unanimously passed the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act. The bill will provide for more equitable distribution of Ryan White funding to the areas that are seeing an increase in their HIV/AIDS cases and will better ensure Ryan White funding follows the patients. In addition, new provisions to strengthen HIV testing to help improve early diagnosis are included in the bill. "Thousands of North Carolinians living with HIV/AIDS receive treatment and care through the Ryan White program, and this extension ensures that they will continue to get the care they need," Senator Burr said. "I am pleased that my colleagues were able to work together to reach a bipartisan agreement to extend this life-saving program for another four years." The Ryan White program was initiated in 1990 to provide treatment and care for individuals living with HIV/AIDS who are in the greatest need of assistance. The reauthorization legislation extends important policies enacted in the last Ryan White reauthorization that will ensure Ryan White funding is distributed more fairly and is accurately based on our nation's current HIV/AIDS epidemic. These policies were critical in North Carolina's ability to serve more patients in recent years. Currently, North Carolina has approximately 33,000 individuals living with HIV/AIDS. This bill will guarantee North Carolinians living with HIV or AIDS will receive the treatment and care they need. "It is my hope the House will act quickly to pass this important bill," Burr added. "Quick action will ensure that the North Carolinians served by this important program will have the peace of mind that services will continue."
10.14.2009	10.14.09 Bill to Authorize Advanced Appropriations Heading to President’s Desk Burr co-sponsored legislation to authorize advanced appropriations for VA medical care Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, applauded the full Senate's passage of the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009. The bill calls for the advanced funding of critical services to veterans, which have recently been subjected to delays by Congress. "I am pleased the full Senate acted yesterday to pass advanced appropriations for VA medical care, and I hope that the President will sign this important bill soon," Senator Burr said. "Too often, critical funding for veterans' health care is held hostage to political gamesmanship, which is unacceptable. In a time of war and an aging veteran population, we have an obligation to ensure that veterans can get the health care they need when they need it." The Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act funds the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) in two-year cycles through advance appropriations. This would give the agency the ability to plan its budget one-year ahead of the regular federal funding process. Currently, VHA's budget is subject to delay, which hinders its ability to plan its budgets and provide quality care to our veterans. "Yet again this year, VA does not have an on-time budget," Burr added. "Passing this bill is a step towards rectifying this problem. Our veterans made us a priority when they wore the uniform, now is the time to make them our priority."
10.09.2009	10.09.09 Burr, Hagan Introduce Bills To Improve Land Use in Western North Carolina Legislation would expand Pisgah National Forest and give Blowing Rock, NC ownership of water supply Yesterday, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Kay Hagan (D-NC) introduced two pieces of legislation related to lands in Western North Carolina. The Pisgah National Forest Boundary Adjustment Act would authorize the U.S. Forest Service to acquire twenty-three acres of land near Catawba Falls and the Pisgah National Forest and allow the Forest Service to open a public trail to Catawba Falls. The second bill, The Blue Ridge Parkway and Town of Blowing Rock Land Exchange Act, would allow the town of Blowing Rock to acquire permanent ownership of its water supply reservoir and give the Parkway a 192-acre buffer tract from the town. Both bills have companion legislation in the House, H.R. 1002 (Pisgah) and H.R. 1121 (Blowing Rock), and both enjoy strong bipartisan support in the House."North Carolina's public lands are some of our state's greatest assets," Burr said. "The Pisgah National Forest provides tremendous environmental and economic benefits to McDowell County, and providing trail access to Catawba Falls will drive more tourists to the area." "Ensuring the town of Blowing Rock will continue to have access to their water supply is important and gives a boost to the overall economy," Burr added. "Both of these pieces of legislation will allow North Carolinians to enjoy the beauty of their state." "Our forests and public lands are natural treasures in our state," said Hagan. "These bills will support the economy in the region and ensure these areas are accessible and enjoyable to North Carolinians now and into the future. Senator Burr and I are working together to advance this legislation in the Senate." The Pisgah National Forest, established in 1916, contains over 519,000 acres of North Carolina land. Catawba Falls, located within Pisgah National Forest, was previously inaccessible because access to the falls was blocked by private land. The Town of Blowing Rock, the Blue Ridge Parkway and the National Park Service have agreed to a land exchange that would allow the Town to acquire permanent ownership of its water supply reservoir by expanding it by 20-acres, and the Parkway would gain a 192-acre buffer tract from the Town to ensure the integrity of its existing park holdings.
10.08.2009	10.08.09 Veterans’ Committee Addresses Water Contamination at Camp Lejeune Committee hears from veterans as part of hearing on exposure to toxic substances Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a hearing about veterans and families who have been exposed to toxic substances, such as the water contamination at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. "Over the years thousands of military personnel and their families have been exposed to dangerous chemicals where they were living and working while serving our country," Senator Burr said. "Because of its location in my home state, the exposure to water contamination at Camp Lejeune is very personal for me." Burr's office has heard from many veterans who have had heart-breaking personal experiences with exposure issues, including Jerry Ensminger, a retired Marine master sergeant whose daughter was born on Camp Lejeune in 1975, diagnosed with leukemia at the age of six and, tragically, died three years later. "Unfortunately, Jerry's case is not unique for veterans who served on Camp Lejeune between 1957 and 1987," Burr added. "A number of studies have suggested a link between the water at Camp Lejeune and various forms of cancer and other diseases, and we owe it to those exposed to complete these studies and give them concrete answers." Senator Burr has introduced the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act of 2009, which would allow veterans and their family members stationed at Camp Lejeune while the water was contaminated to get medical care from the VA. "Camp Lejeune veterans and their families deserve closure on this tragic situation and today's hearing is a step towards meeting our moral obligation. For veterans and their families put at risk by exposures - whether in Japan, Afghanistan, Iraq, North Carolina, or elsewhere - we have a solemn duty to take care of those who were put in harm's way while serving our nation," Burr concluded.
10.07.2009	10.07.09 Burr Applauds VA Homeless Grant Money Heading to North Carolina First at Blue Ridge, Inc. selected by VA for funding Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, applauded the decision by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to award First at Blue Ridge, Inc. in Ridgecrest, North Carolina, more than $125,000 to establish housing and support services for homeless veterans. The VA estimates that last year, the grants helped reduce the number of veterans who are homeless on a typical night by 15 percent. "Helping homeless veterans get off the street and back on their feet is our obligation, and these grants are an important step in that direction," Burr said. "I congratulate First at Blue Ridge on being chosen for this funding, and I appreciate their contributions to the community." The National Coalition for Homeless Veterans estimates there are 1,659 homeless veterans living in North Carolina. The grant to North Carolina is part of the more than $17 million in grants to community groups to create 1,155 beds for homeless veterans this year throughout 19 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Last year, Burr authored the bill that authorized grants to address the issue of preventing veteran homelessness. Burr's legislation was signed into law last year as part of the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008. Under the Burr legislation, VA can make grants to provide supportive services that will keep low-income veterans, who are at risk of becoming homeless, in permanent housing.
10.01.2009	10.01.09 Burr, Hagan Introduce Lumbee Recognition Bill Bill would provide full federal recognition to Lumbee Tribe Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Kay Hagan (D-NC) introduced the Lumbee Recognition Act, a bill which would provide federal recognition to the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina. "I am proud to introduce this legislation because the Lumbee Tribe should receive the federal recognition they deserve," Senator Burr said. "Currently, this can only happen through an act of Congress. I hope that the Senate will fulfill its commitment to achieve fairness and justice for the Lumbees." North Carolina formally recognized the Lumbee Tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe, but it included a terribly unfair caveat - the Lumbees were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. The Lumbee Recognition Act would provide the Lumbees with complete recognition and make the tribe eligible for all federal benefits and programs.
09.17.2009	09.17.09 Veterans’ Committee Holds Hearing on Disability Compensation in the 21st Century “I sincerely hope this is the last hearing we have to hold on this issue.” Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a hearing to discuss how to adapt veterans' disability compensation to better meet the needs of our nation's wounded warriors. "Veterans deserve a disability system that addresses their needs, and more importantly, helps them achieve full and productive lives," Senator Burr said. "Unfortunately, our current disability system does not meet those tests." The Committee addressed yet another recent study requested by VA which details how changes suggested by the Dole-Shalala Commission and the Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission could be implemented. Among other recommendations, the commissions stressed the need to emphasize treatment and rehabilitation of injured veterans and to compensate them for loss of quality of life caused by their disabilities. "Although VA has spent millions of dollars on numerous studies to determine how to make changes to the disability compensation system, they have yet to actually take any action," Burr added. "I sincerely hope this is the last hearing we have to hold on this issue. If the wounded warriors returning from the current conflicts with life altering injuries are not enough motivation to make common sense changes in this system now, I'm not sure what will be."
09.17.2009	09.17.09 Burr Congratulates AeroDyn on Employer Support Freedom Award Secretary of Defense award recognizes support of Reserve and Guard employees Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) congratulated AeroDyn Wind Tunnel LLC of Mooresville, North Carolina, on their selection as one of 15 recipients of the 2009 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award. This award is the highest recognition given by the U.S. government to employers who go above and beyond in support of their National Guard and Reserve employees. "I am proud to congratulate AeroDyn Wind Tunnel on receiving the Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award. By actively recruiting members of the Guard and Reserve and providing benefits such as differential pay and continued medical and life insurance benefits for active duty employees and their families, AeroDyn Wind Tunnel goes above and beyond in support of our nation's military," Senator Burr said. Of the 21 individuals AeroDyn Wind Tunnel employs, five have served or are serving in the military. The company, which specializes in wind tunnel testing for automotive racing, was nominated by wind tunnel technician Sgt. Michael L. Scaglione, who is currently deployed.
09.16.2009	09.16.09 Burr Statement on the Baucus Proposal Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement regarding the Baucus health care proposal. "The need for health care reform is clear, but it is even more important that we get this right so that our children and grandchildren do not have to spend a lifetime correcting our mistakes. "I appreciate the Finance Committee chairman's commitment to working across the aisle on this important issue. Unfortunately, the proposal put forth today fails several crucial tests. In addition to increasing spending and raising taxes, it also cuts Medicare by nearly half a trillion dollars. It makes no sense to jeopardize health coverage for seniors to pay for health care reform. Further, this plan is not financially sustainable over the long-term. It is imperative that Congress listen to the concerns of their constituents and get it right, rather than focus on arbitrary timelines and rushed solutions."
09.09.2009	09.09.09 Statement on President Obama’s Address to Congress Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's address to a joint session of Congress. "I applaud the president's call for action on health care reform, and agree that we must do something. Whatever we do, however, we must get it right. Any plan we consider must promote wellness, prevention, and chronic disease management while expanding access to quality care for all Americans. Further, any health care reform legislation must be financially sustainable over the long term. "Recently, I have heard from many North Carolinians who are adamant that health care reform not be rushed through Congress. I am hopeful that my colleagues will realize the need to pass responsible health care reform on a bipartisan basis, not just push legislation through without proper debate and consideration of the consequences for all Americans."
08.28.2009	08.28.09 Burr Announces Events for Week of August 31st U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Swain, Buncombe, Cleveland, Mecklenburg and Forsyth counties between August 31 - September 2, 2009. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, August 31 9:00 AM Senator Burr to attend Sequoyah National Ribbon Cutting Sequoyah National Golf Club 79 Cahons Road Cherokee, NC 12:00 PM Senator Burr to attend the NC Association of Resource Conservation and Development Conference Grove Park Inn Asheville, NC 3:30 PM Senator Burr to attend Hurst Jaws of Life Donation of Rescue Tools Event 711 N. Post Road Shelby, NC *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Britt Hawkins, Marketing Communications Specialist, (800) 537 - 2659 extension 2029 Tuesday, September 1 8:30 AM Senator Burr to attend Health Care Forum *Details to follow Wednesday, September 2 11:00 AM Senator Burr to attend Great Smoky Mountains National Park 75th Anniversary Re-Dedication Newfound Gap, TN *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Nancy Gray, public information officer, (865) 436 - 1208 6:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Forsyth Medical Society, Greater Greensboro Academy of Medicine and High Point Medical Society Meeting 4001 Piedmont Parkway High Point, NC *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact James Robinson, (336) 297 - 1278
08.26.2009	08.26.09 Senator Burr Statement on the Passing of Senator Edward Kennedy Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on the passing of Senator Edward Kennedy: "I was deeply saddened to hear the news of Senator Ted Kennedy's passing. While we did not always see eye to eye on the issues of the day, he was a devoted and ardent champion of the causes he believed in. I enjoyed the opportunities I had to work with him on issues that we shared a passion for, particularly our ongoing efforts to strengthen our nation's public health system. Brooke and I extend our thoughts and prayers to Vicki and the Kennedy family."
08.21.2009	08.21.09 Burr Announces Events for Week of August 24th U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Wake, Mecklenburg, Montgomery, Moore, and Lenoir counties between August 24 - 28, 2009. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, August 24 12:00 PM Senator Burr interview with WGHP Fox 8 4:00 PM Senator Burr in-studio interview with Bill Lumaye on WPTF-AM 5:30 PM Senator Burr to attend North Carolina Agribusiness Banquet North Raleigh Hilton 3415 Wake Forest Road Raleigh, NC Tuesday, August 25 4:30 PM Senator Burr interview with WCNC News 36 9:00 PM Senator Burr to participate in UNC-TV's Public Forum on Health Care Reform Broadcasted live on UNC-TV Wednesday, August 26 8:30 AM Senator Burr to speak at the Montgomery County Chamber of Commerce Breakfast Montgomery Country Club, 1235 Highway 134 N, Troy, NC 27371 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit American Growler in Robbins 121 N Green St. Robbins, NC 12:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Moore County Chamber Lunch Moore County Chamber 10677 Hwy 15-501 Southern Pines, NC 28387 3:00 PMSenator Burr interview with the Fayetteville Observer Thursday, August 27 9:45 AM Senator Burr interview with WNCN NBC 17 12:30 PM Senator Burr to speak at Crabtree Rotary Lunch Crabtree Marriott 4500 Marriott Drive Raleigh, NC 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Spirit Aerospace 2812 Rouse Road Ext Kinston, NC 28504 4:00 PMSenator Burr to visit Spatial Integrated Systems Inc. 2815 Rouse Road Extension Kinston, NC 28504 Friday, August 28 8:40 AM Senator Burr in-studio interview with Scott Fitzgerald on WPTF-AM 10:00 AM Time Held for Possible Debate on Health Care 3:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Food Lion Customer Support Center 2085 Harrison Rd. Salisbury, NC
08.18.2009	08.18.09 Burr Statement on Health Care Co-ops and the Public Option Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on the Administration considering health care co-ops instead of a public option: "Over the past several days, Administration officials have indicated that they might be willing to settle for health care co-ops instead of a public option plan in their health care reform proposal. While I haven't seen any specific details about these co-ops, I am willing to entertain any good idea as long as it covers all Americans, stresses wellness and prevention, and does not increase taxes or add to our national debt. However, if these co-ops are financed or run by the federal government, then they are no better than the public option and are just federally run health care under a different name."
08.14.2009	08.14.09 Burr Announces Events for Week of August 17th WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Mecklenburg, Richmond, Cumberland, Union, Buncombe, Transylvania, Mitchell, Yancey, Henderson and Forsyth counties between August 17 - 21, 2009. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, August 17 9:00 AM Burr to speak to Charlotte Area Realtors Marriott Charlotte Executive Park 5700 West Park Drive Charlotte, NC 28217 1:00 PM Burr to attend event with Secretaries of Agriculture and Education at Richmond Community College Cole Auditorium and Conference Center Rockingham, Burlington and Hamlet Ballrooms 1042 W Hamlet Avenue Hamlet, NC 28345 Tuesday, August 18 8:00 AM Burr to attend Union County Chamber Breakfast 903 Skyway Drive Monroe, NC 28110 10:00 AM Burr to tour Tyco Safety Products * Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Kelly Philson at (609) 213-0736 or Dan McKinney at (704) 291-8418 4320 Goldmine Rd Monroe, NC 28110 Wednesday, August 19 9:00 AM Burr to speak at the North Carolina Veterans Affairs Summer Conference Renaissance of Asheville Windsor Room 31 Woodfin Street Asheville, NC 28801 12:00 PM Burr to attend Fletcher Rotary Meeting Fletcher Park Inn 150 Tulip Trl Hendersonville, NC 28792 2:00 PM Burr to tour the Technology Education and Development Building at Blue Ridge Community College 180 West Campus Drive Flat Rock, NC 28731 4:00 PM Burr to stop by Transylvania Vocational Services 11 Mountain Industrial Drive Brevard, NC 28712 Thursday, August 20 7:30 AM Burr to attend Arden Rotary Club Breakfast The Orchard at Broadmoor 101 French Broad Lane Fletcher, NC 28732 10:00 AM Burr to visit Yancey EnergyXchange *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Heather Dawes (828) 675-5541 66 EnergyXchange Drive Fletcher, NC 28732 12:00 PMBurr to attend Mitchell County Chamber of Commerce Lunch 2360 Swiss Pine Lake Dr. Spruce Pine, NC 28777 3:00 PMBurr to visit Frye Regional Medical Center *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Eddie Salyards at (828) 315-5852 420 N. Center Street Hickory, NC 28601 Friday, August 21 12:00 PMBurr to speak at Reynolda Rotary LJVM Coliseum in the Winston Room 2825 University Parkway Winston-Salem, NC 27105
08.07.2009	08.07.09 Burr Announces Events for Week of August 10th U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Cumberland, Robeson, Lee, Wake, Edgecombe, Chowan, Hertford, Currituck, Beaufort, Perquimans, Pasquotank, and Pitt counties between August 10 - 14, 2009. Media wishing to schedule separate interviews with Senator Burr should contact Senator Burr's press office at (202) 228-1616. Monday, August 10 8:00 AM Burr to attend Eighth Annual Defense and Economic Development Trade Show and Government Workshops Fayetteville Technical Community College Fayetteville, NC 12:00 PMBurr to visit Nature Conservancy Project at Fort Bragg *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Debbie Crane (919) 619-8613 Fayetteville, NC 2:00 PM Burr to tour Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. Plant *This event is currently closed to the press Fayetteville, NC Tuesday, August 11 8:30 AM Burr to attend National Association of Manufacturers Event *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Laura Brown Narvaiz (202) 637-3104 Moen-Sanford Operations 2609 Cox Mill Road Sanford, NC 3:00 PMBurr to visit HC Composites 1090 W. Saint James Street Tarboro, NC 27886 6:00 PMBurr to attend National Community Health Center Week Banquet Ahoskie Inn 343 NC Highway 561 W Ahoskie, NC Wednesday, August 12 8:00 AM Burr to attend Chowan County Chamber of Commerce Breakfast Shepard-Pruden Memorial Library 106 W. Water Street Edenton, NC 9:30 AM Burr to visit the Edenton National Fish Hatchery 1102 West Queen Street Edenton, NC 10:30 AM Burr to attend FedEx Building Ribbon Cutting Ceremony Perquimans County Commerce Center 204 South Granby Street Hertford, NC 12:00 PMBurr to attend Albermarle Economic Development Commission Luncheon Maguire Theater 516 East Main Street Elizabeth City, NC 3:00 PMBurr to attend Currituck County Mainland Water Plant Ribbon Cutting Maple Road Currituck, NC Thursday, August 13 8:00 AM Burr to attend Beaufort County Chamber of Commerce Breakfast Beaufort County Community College Building 13 5337 Hwy. 264 East Washington, NC 12:00 PMBurr to attend PCS Phosphate Luncheon PCS Employee Center 1530 NC Highway 306 S. Aurora, NC 4:00 PMEast Carolina Heart Institute at Pitt County Memorial Hospital East Carolina Heart Institute 526 Moye Boulevard Greenville, NC Friday, August 14 10:00 AMBurr to visit Automation Federation *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Bernard Penney (919) 990-9291 67 Alexander Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 11:30 AM Burr to visit Talecris Biotherapeutics, Inc. *Anyone wishing to cover this event should contact Becky Levine (919) 795-4965 79 T.W. Alexander Drive Research Triangle Park, NC 27709
08.05.2009	08.05.09 Burr Bill Would Allow Off-Road Vehicle Use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore Senator Richard Burr today introduced the "Preserving Public Access to Cape Hatteras Beaches Act" in the U.S. Senate that would reinstate the Interim Management Strategy governing off-road vehicle use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore (CHNS). The reinstatement of the original Interim Management Strategy, issued by the National Park Service (NPS) on June 13, 2007, would set aside current mandates and requirements which were put in place in the wake of a consent decree filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, that prevent off-road vehicle and citizen access to a significant portion of this National Seashore. "As a Senator from North Carolina and Ranking Member on the National Parks Subcommittee, I always try to make sure that our state's residents have access to North Carolina's scenic treasures," Senator Burr said. "It is regrettable that people are prevented from accessing Cape Hatteras at times because of ORV restrictions. I believe we can come to a compromise that allows people to have access while at the same time addressing any potential environmental concerns." If enacted, the National Park Service's Interim Management Strategy will go into effect immediately and end upon the National Park Service establishing a long-term off-road vehicle management plan for the use of CHNS by the public. Background In 1972, President Richard Nixon issued an Executive Order that required all federal parks, refuges and public lands that allow off-road vehicles access to develop and implement a detailed management plan to regulate and assess environmental impacts. CHNS never developed a management plan, and as a result, Cape Hatteras has been out of compliance for over three decades. In December 2005, the NPS developed a three-phase plan to begin the negotiation process and create regulations that would allow CHNS to meet compliance standards; however, on July 17, 2007 an injunction was filed by the Defenders of Wildlife and the National Audubon Society to prevent off-road vehicle use until a management plan is established and approved. A settlement negotiation process ensued, and on April 30, 2008, a federal judge approved a consent decree, proposed by the plaintiffs and agreed to by the parties involved in the case - the National Park Service, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Superintendent of Cape Hatteras National Seashore and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The settlement, which went into effect on May 1, 2008, requires that all seashore ramps be closed to ORVs from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m. through November 15, 2008, that buffers for nests and chicks are clearly defined and in some cases more restrictive, and that deliberate violations of the buffers will result in an expanded restricted area.
07.29.2009	07.29.09 Burr Statement on Nomination of Judge Sotomayor Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement regarding the nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court of the United States: "On July 23, with Senate Judiciary hearings behind us, I had the opportunity to meet privately with Judge Sotomayor.Without question, she has impressive academic credentials, a lengthy judicial record, and a personal story that is inspiring to many Americans.These qualities are certainly admirable; however, I am concerned with Judge Sotomayor's ability to adhere to long-standing case precedent and apply the law according to a strict interpretation of the Constitution.I am troubled by her decisions in cases where she appears to have relied on something other than well-settled law to come to a decision.My fear is that she has been unable to separate her personal belief system from that of the letter of the law. "In 2005, when then-Senator Obama voted against current Chief Justice John Roberts, he conceded that Roberts had a 'passion for the law' and that he was a legal advocate with an 'excellent record.'I would say the same thing about Judge Sotomayor.However, it was the uncertainty that then-Senator Obama had about Roberts' impartiality that resulted in his vote against him.Any concern about uncertainty with our current Chief Justice would pale in comparison to the uncertainty I believe Judge Sotomayor currently presents to the highest court in the land.While she stated in her testimony that she would adhere to legal precedent, her judicial record suggests otherwise.In several cases she has clearly ignored precedent or cited precedent that did not apply to the facts at hand, and I believe let her personal beliefs cloud her judgment. "The decisions made by the Supreme Court affect the lives of every American.After taking into consideration Judge Sotomayor's answers to my questions and reviewing her decisions that appear to have departed from the normal principles of jurisprudence, I find little predictability in her decisions and the implications they may have.I am concerned by the several examples where I believe Judge Sotomayor strayed from the rules of strict statutory construction and legal precedence and went with her own deeply held beliefs while providing little explanation.Therefore, I am unable to support her nomination to the Supreme Court."
07.28.2009	07.28.09 Burr Introduces Bill to End Long-Term Homelessness Bipartisan legislation establishes grant program to help end chronic homelessness Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr introduced the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act, legislation that would strengthen permanent supportive housing programs by combining housing with support services, such as mental health, substance use disorder treatment and recovery, and employment opportunities for chronically homelessness individuals and families. This bill establishes a grant program through the Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to help end chronic homelessness. Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) is the lead co-sponsor of the legislation. "We have the opportunity to help solve the issue of chronic homelessness by providing permanent supportive housing and supportive services," Burr said. "These services can help reduce the number of visits to emergency rooms, shelters, and hospitals, which reduces costs and, more importantly, provide a road to recovery and self-sufficiency for these members of our community." Over a half a million Americans do not have a place to call home each night, and two to three million people find themselves homeless at some point during the year. The latest estimates indicate that there are 150,000 chronically homeless individuals nationwide. Chronically homeless individuals use a disproportionate amount of emergency resources compared to the rest of the population. However, studies show that supportive housing and supportive services for mental health, substance abuse treatment, and employment opportunities can curb the need for emergency assistance. Burr first introduced the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act when he served in the U.S. House of Representatives. In the Senate, he also championed the Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act to provide services to help keep low-income veterans, who are at-risk of becoming homeless, in permanent housing. This legislation was signed into law last year.
07.28.2009	07.28.09 Burr Bill Would Provide Care for Lejeune Vets Exposed to Water Contaminants Bill gives VA health care to servicemembers, veterans, and family adversely affected by contamination Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, introduced the Caring for Camp Lejeune Veterans Act of 2009, legislation that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care toveterans and their family members who have experienced adverse health effects as a result of exposure to well water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. "Thousands of Navy and Marine veterans and their families who lived on Camp Lejeune have fallen ill with a variety of cancers and diseases believed to be attributable to their service at the base before it was designated a Superfund site in 1988," Senator Burr said. "We owe those who are sick the benefit of the doubt and the health care they need." A recent National Research Council report on the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune assessed that there are numerous adverse health effects associated with human exposure to the chemicals known to have been in water at Lejeune. The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry is conducting scientific studies to further understand the extent of human exposure on Camp Lejeune and planning human health surveys to determine the frequency of certain illnesses among former Camp Lejeune residents. Senator Burr's bill would allow a veteran or military family member who was stationed at Camp Lejeune during the time the water was contaminated to receive needed health care at a VA facility. "Camp Lejeune veterans and their families deserve closure on this tragic situation," Senator Burr added. "While we continue to seek more answers, this bill is a step towards providing the Lejeune veterans and their families the respect and care they deserve."
07.23.2009	07.23.09 Burr’s Military Spouse Amendment Agreed to by Senate “This amendment sends a clear message of support to our military spouses.” Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) offered the Military Spouse Residency Relief Act as an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill currently under consideration in the Senate. The amendment, which was approved by voice vote on the Senate floor, would allow military spouses to maintain residency in their home state regardless of military placement of their families. "Military spouses play a very important role in the success of our Armed Forces," Senator Burr said. "But, even though military spouses frequently move in support of servicemembers and the military, the law currently does not grant them the same residency rights as their servicemembers. This means that every time they move in response to military orders, they must change their license plates, voter registration and even file taxes in a different state than their spouse. This just isn't right." Currently, servicemembers have the ability to claim and maintain one state of residence, regardless of where military orders may send them. The Military Spouses Residency Relief Act would extend similar rights to military spouses, easing the burden and headaches they now face. "The approval of this amendment sends a clear message to military spouses that we, as a nation, appreciate their sacrifices and are grateful for the contributions they make to the success of our Armed Forces," Senator Burr added."It is one small way we can not only ease the burden they currently bear in caring for children and supporting our troops through frequent deployments, but I also hope this legislation will keep more of our military families together."
07.14.2009	07.14.09 Burr Offers Amendment on OLF to Defense Bill Amendment Prohibits an Outlying Landing Field in Sandbanks or Hale’s Lake, NC Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) offered an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill currently under consideration in the Senate. The amendment would prohibit the establishment of an outlying landing field (OLF) in Sandbanks or Hale's Lake, North Carolina for Oceana Naval Air Station. "It has always been my hope that the Navy and the State of North Carolina would find a location for an OLF that was acceptable to both the military and the local community," said Senator Burr. "However, it is clear that North Carolinians are opposed to the proposed sites, and I am disappointed with the Navy's efforts to work with the communities involved." The outlying landing field sites being considered in Sandbanks and Hale's Lake would support field carrier landing practice for naval aircraft operating out of Oceana Naval Air Station in Virginia. The jet-training field would have a negative impact on the surrounding communities' economy, farmlands, and local wetlands and wildlife in the area. "This lengthy process has been difficult on many North Carolinians. It is crucial the Navy listen to the local community when considering these sites," Senator Burr added.
07.14.2009	07.14.09 Committee Holds Hearing on Women Veterans Health Care "We need to know where improvements need to be made.” Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs held a hearing on the adequacy of health care services VA provides to a growing number of individuals who have proudly worn the nation's uniform -- women veterans. According to the VA, in 2007 just over 146,000 women veterans used gender-specific health care services at VA. In 2008, despite the growing number of women veterans, there were close to 141,000 users of the system - a decline of 3 percent from one year to the next. "In order to provide the quality health care our women veterans have earned, we need to know where improvements need to be made," Senator Burr added. "It is important to ensure that the VA health care system is providing the unique services required by women veterans. I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve the accessibility and quality of care they deserve."
07.07.2009	07.07.09 Sen. Burr Floor Speech Honoring Master Sergeant Brendan O'Connor, Recipient of the Distinguished Service Cross Madam President, one of the privileges of being a Senator is that we have the opportunity to meet extraordinary people every day. Whether you are the Senator from Illinois or the Senator from Nebraska, extraordinary people walk through your door every day of the week. But sometimes we get to meet amazing individuals whom we can honestly call heroes, who lay their lives on the line for their country and sacrifice themselves for our freedom. MSG Brendan O'Connor, a medic in the 7th Special Forces Group, is one of those very special people. In June of 2006, Master Sergeant O'Connor was deployed to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. His group was stationed near Kandahar and charged with a variety of things, including security, training of the Afghan Army, and counterterrorism operations against a ruthless enemy. We have all heard news reports and heard of suicide bombers driving cars loaded with explosives into markets and crowded areas killing innocent men, women, and children. We have all heard accounts of suicide bombers strapping explosives to their waists and walking through a market, intentionally killing individuals. All of these individuals have been branded as religious zealots willing to die for their cause. However, that is not always the case. Oftentimes, these Taliban warlords recruit suicide bombers in other ways. They go into small villages and they hold whole families hostage. They instruct the young men in the family that if they do not carry out a suicide mission, they are going to kill the rest of the family, or if they do, they will let them live. Brendan's team was tracking one of these Taliban warlords, one of these thugs, outside of Kandahar, who was notorious for this type of ``recruitment.'' They tracked the terrorist to a small farming village surrounded by vineyards and orchards. Once in the area, Brendan's team set up a perimeter and defensive position to root out these warlords. They arrived late one evening and, working under the cloak of darkness, proceeded to sweep the village, hoping to surprise the local Taliban leader. However, their arrival was tipped off to the Taliban, and they had fled just minutes before U.S. soldiers arrived. Having found evidence of the Taliban's existence, the soldiers knew it was only a matter of time before they engaged the enemy. That first skirmish started the next day at dusk. Brendan's team, about 70 soldiers comprised of 8 U.S. special ops and 60 Afghan soldiers, took some small arms and rocket propelled grenade fire, but it didn't last long. The Taliban attacked the U.S.-led forces several more times over the next day and night but never amounting to much. U.S.-led forces didn't even sustain a single injury during those firefights. After having arrived on Wednesday evening and sporadically fighting the Taliban for 2 days, Brendan's team decided it was time to take the fight to the enemy. On that Saturday, MSG Tom Maholluck led a small recon group to a Taliban stronghold, which was just outside the village in a cluster of farm buildings. The team was comprised of four special forces operators and a dozen Afghan Army. Sergeant Maholluck was able to get in close enough to the compound without being detected. Once he assessed the situation, Sergeant Maholluck thought he could take the compound with a simple recon team. He ordered two of his soldiers--SSG Matt Binnie and SSG Joe Feurst--to take a fire suppression position and cover Sergeant Maholluck and the remaining Afghan Army contingency while they stormed the compound. When the U.S.-led recon team launched its first attack on the Taliban compound, they were quickly greeted with heavy machine gunfire. The first fire expression team returned fire; however, the machine gun nest had a tactical advantage over the fire team--they had the higher ground. Matt was struck first by a bullet that grazed his neck and stunned him for a moment. Matt regained his senses, and he and Joe returned fire, as much as they could, but the Taliban had them pinned down. Then an RPG round came and struck Staff Sergeant Feurst directly in the leg. It didn't explode, thankfully, but badly wounded SSG Joe Feurst. As Staff Sergeant Binnie was tending to Joe's leg, he was shot through the shoulder. The only thing left of the fire suppression team was a young Afghan interpreter who had stayed with them. Master Sergeant Maholluck was cut off from Staff Sergeant Binnie and Staff Sergeant Feurst, so he radioed for help. Back at the main perimeter, Brendan O'Connor got the call and put a team together to go get his wounded soldiers. When Brendan's team got to the area, the Taliban had taken positions along the route to the wounded soldiers, leaving Brendan only one path--an exposed field. Brendan instructed his team to take up positions to support the wounded and started on his mission to save the lives of these soldiers. At first, Brendan started crawling through an open field with his gear on. He quickly realized this wasn't going to work. So under a hail of small arms, RPG, and machine gun fire, Brendan removed all his armor and crawled through an open field to get to the two wounded. Brendan couldn't locate the two soldiers by sight, only by calling out. And as he heard them, he would get closer and closer. When he arrived at the two wounded, he had to make a quick decision about Joe's injuries, which were life threatening. Brendan quickly got Staff Sergeant Binnie taken care of and instructed him to crawl through a culvert to get to safety. Staff Sergeant Feurst wasn't so easy. He was unconscious and unable to move. Brendan pulled him down as far as he could into the culvert. He started to drag him, but he realized he couldn't drag him the entire way. As if the actions of Brendan and his team weren't heroic enough at this point, the next part of this account will send chills down your spine. At this time during the fight, it was estimated that nearly 300 Taliban fighters had engaged the approximately 15-member U.S. force. I say approximately because several Afghan Army members who originally accompanied Brendan's team had fled by this point. As Brendan's natural cover was coming to an end, he pulled Joe on to his shoulder, and he ran across an area while 300 Taliban fighters were shooting at him. God was watching Brendan that day. God saw one man risk his life to save another, and he saw fit to keep Brendan from harm as he carried a wounded U.S. soldier to safety. Unfortunately, Joe Feurst died soon after Brendan got him back due to massive blood loss. SSG Matt Binnie survived because of Brendan's leadership and courage under fire. The battle that had gone on for nearly 3 days was coming to an end at this point. U.S. forces had air support, which escorted them out of the area. All told, the U.S.-led force killed 125 Taliban fighters and only lost 2 of their own, with 1 wounded. They weren't able to capture or kill the warlord that time; however, due to the losses to the Taliban that day in that strike, U.S. forces got him several weeks later. For their heroics in combat, MSG Tom Maholluck and SSG Matt Binnie were awarded the Silver Star. SSG Joe Feurst was awarded the Bronze Star. Brendan O'Connor was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for his valor. It was the first time a member of the 7th Special Forces Group had been awarded the medal since 1964. It is an honor to have Brendan and his family in Washington today. He is joined by his beautiful wife Meg and their children, Ryan, Colin, Darby, and Dillon. It is this type of story that we rarely hear about on the nightly news, but this story was so amazing that ``60 Minutes'' felt compelled to do a piece on it after the soldiers arrived back home. MSG Brendan O'Connor is a person held in the highest regard by other warriors who have proudly served this country. He is a soldier who truly understands the price of freedom. The Senate salutes MSG Brendan O'Connor today. I thank the Chair, and I yield the floor.
06.24.2009	06.24.09 Committee Holds Oversight Hearing; Focuses on Use of Contaminated Endoscopy Equipment Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs held an oversight hearing on VA quality management focusing largely on the use of contaminated endoscopy equipment at VA facilities. In the wake of what appears to be extreme negligence after repeated directives, VA officials testified and answered questions before the Committee. "When veterans have lost confidence in VA, we have all failed in our mission to deliver world class health care to those who fought for us," Senator Burr said. "Despite numerous and multiple warning signs, directives, and patient safety alerts, VA apparently chose not to learn from their mistakes and take steps to ensure they didn't happen again." Last week, VA's Inspector General released their report on the endoscopy failures, finding that more than half of VA facilities visited by investigators are currently not in compliance with the Standard Operating Procedures and competency guidelines for the reprocessing of endoscopy equipment. "After eleven patient safety alerts on the topic of medical device and equipment reprocessing, enough is enough," Senator Burr said. "VA must improve quality management for the sake of all veterans. They depend on the VA system, and we owe them nothing less than the highest quality care," Senator Burr added.
06.24.2009	06.24.09 Burr Appointed to the Board of Visitors at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) accepted an appointment to the Board of Visitors (BOV) at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Created by the Federal Advisory Act of 1972, the BOV consists of presidential appointees and Members of Congress. "I am incredibly honored to have been selected and look forward to serving as a Member of the U.S. Military Academy Board of Visitors," Senator Burr said. "In conjunction with my work on the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue to do all I can in support of our nation's armed forces and West Point." The BOV meets quarterly to review and receive updates on the academic, physical and military programs at the Academy. Specifically, the BOV has oversight of the Academy's morale and discipline, curriculum, instructions, physical equipment, fiscal affairs and academic methods. Founded in 1802, the Academy has a student body of 4,400 cadets.
06.17.2009	06.17.09 Burr Presses on Camp Lejeune Water Contamination at Hearing Burr questions Navy on NAS report Today, the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support held a hearing on military construction and environmental initiatives. U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, raised concerns about the recent National Academy of Sciences (NAS) report on water contamination at Camp Lejeune and pressed the Navy for answers. "It's clear that the water at Camp Lejeune was contaminated by a number of hazardous chemicals at unsafe levels," Senator Burr said. "I am deeply concerned about the conclusions in the report from the National Academy of Sciences. This latest report still raises more questions than it answers." The NAS panel report, released on Saturday, concludes the water systems at Camp Lejeune were in some cases highly contaminated by two hazardous chemicals, although the NAS also stated that it could not say for sure whether the people exposed to these chemicals may have suffered adverse health outcomes as a result. The report lists fourteen diseases and health conditions that may have a link with human exposure to the chemicals indentified in the Camp Lejeune water system. In addition to questions at today's hearing, Senator Burr has written a letter to the Secretary of the Navy seeking answers to additional, detailed questions. "I will continue to seek additional answers from the Department of the Navy, and I also intend to seek further input from the scientific community," Burr said. "Former Marines, their families, and former employees at Camp Lejeune have waited far too long for answers, and we need to start working toward a resolution.
06.16.2009	06.16.09 Reforming the Delivery of Health Care Today, nearly 47 million people across America do not have health insurance, and this number is growing. In North Carolina alone, there are more than 1.5 million uninsured individuals. Senator Burr believes we must make health insurance more accessible and affordable so that more families can have peace of mind that they can get quality medical care. As we search for long-term solutions, however, we must make sure people have the ability to choose their own doctor. While some politicians support government-run health care, Senator Burr has a different approach.In order to give individuals and families choices in their health coverage and to avoid a one-size-fits-all program, we need to give people the means to purchase their own health insurance that fits their needs and the needs of their families. To address the growing problem of employees having limited or no access to employer-provided coverage, Senator Burr believes we should foster a broad choice of health insurance plans that stay with you through job and life changes so that you can access care when you need it. Americans should control their own insurance and not fear losing it with job changes. As Congress works on proposals to reform health care system, Senator Burr firmly believes that any plan must: Guarantee that every American can get affordable coverage Demand we get more value for our health care dollar rather than imposing a new tax or passing on a new obligation to future generations Transform the health care system so that we focus on keeping people healthy and well instead of only treating them when they are sick Make health coverage affordable for those with pre-existing conditions End the current discrimination in the tax code that benefits the wealthy and corporations but fails the poor and those who cannot get coverage through their employer Guarantee that health care is accessible when people want it, where people want it Be sustainable so that it will be there for future generations With these goals in mind, Senator Burr recently joined with Senator Tom Coburn and Representatives Paul Ryan and Devin Nunes to introduce the Patients' Choice Act, a bill that delivers on the shared principles of promoting universal access to quality, affordable health care, and does so without adding billions of dollars in new debt or taxes. The Patients' Choice Act would transform our health care system through the following key reforms: Puts affordable coverage and choice within reach of all Americans. This is accomplished by first ending the discrimination in the tax code that rewards corporations and employers yet offers no benefit to the unemployed or those who do not have access to coverage through their job. Specifically, the Patients' Choice Act would shift health care tax benefits to individuals and families, regardless of employment status, in the form of a tax credit worth about $2,200 for individuals and $5,700 for families. Americans would receive this benefit upfront, so they would not have to wait until they file their tax returns to get it. And Americans would be eligible for this benefit regardless of how much they pay in taxes. What's more, under this plan, if you like the health care you have, you can keep it - but you'll have more money in your pocket because you will still receive the tax credit. Prevents cherry picking by guaranteeing access to coverage. The Patients' Choice Act prevents cherry picking - when insurance companies choose to cover only healthy patients - by adjusting risk across insurance companies through an innovative reform called State Based Health Exchanges, which would be a voluntary, one-stop marketplace of insurance plans. These state exchanges -- which would be open to all Americans -- would offer a broad range of plans but all would be required to have the same standard benefits as those enjoyed by Members of Congress. Through this innovative reform, no individual could be turned down based on their age or health. This is because insurers who do cherry pick healthy patients would be penalized, and those that cover patients with pre-existing conditions and emphasize prevention and wellness would be rewarded. Strengthens the health care safety net. Currently, about 40 percent of doctors and hospitals do not accept Medicaid patients because payments are so low. This means that needy moms and kids may have health coverage, but poor access to health care. The Patients' Choice Act would remove the stigma from Medicaid recipients by giving them the ability to purchase the health coverage and care they need from any provider. We also provide simple new opportunities for automatic enrollment to help people who need coverage. The United States currently spends twice as much on health care per person than other industrialized nations, yet we are not twice as healthy. The solution is not for the federal government to spend and tax Americans more, the answer is to get more value for our health care dollar through more choices. And this is exactly what the Patients' Choice Act would accomplish. Senator Burr understands the growing cost of health insurance, and as a Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, he will continue to work on solutions to this problem. For additional information on The Patients' Choice Act, please visit: http://www.house.gov/ryan/PCA. To read the full text of my bill, please click here. "An Alternative to Obamacare" By Tom Coburn, Richard Burr, Paul Ryan and Devin Nunes Real Clear Politics May 20, 2009 "The GOP's Health-Care Alternative" By Grace-Marie Turner (Galen Institute) and Joseph R. Antos (AEI) Wall Street Journal May 20, 2009 "Patients' Choice Act is a serious proposal that merits serious consideration." USA Today Editorial May 29, 2009 Health Care Reform: A Debate Worth Having, By Paul Ryan and Devin Nunes Washington Times June 8, 2009
06.05.2009	06.05.09 Senator Burr Honors 65th Anniversary of D-Day “The selfless devotion of D-Day servicemen and women showed a total and unflinching commitment to victory.” U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, issued the following statement on the 65th Anniversary of D-Day: "On Memorial Day, I was honored to speak at the Normandy American Cemetery and humbled to have been in the presence of so many World War II veterans. Today, our nation marks the 65th anniversary of D-Day, a day that ultimately changed the course of history. "Sixty five years ago today, tens of thousands of Americans and allied soldiers stormed the beaches of Normandy and fought the battles that liberated France; battles that were ultimately decided, as they have always been, by ordinary men and women doing extraordinary things. "The selfless devotion of D-Day servicemen and women showed a total and unflinching commitment to victory which might seem somehow quaint to us in today's developed world. But the men and women of D-Day were an extension of an American home front made up of folks from all ages and walks of life. "On this anniversary of D-Day, we must also honor the generations that came before and after World War II who have unselfishly answered the call to service and given their lives in peace and war. Like the young giants who once crossed the Normandy shore and never went home, they are a constant reminder that liberty is never a guarantee, but a gift that must be defended. "The legacy of the greatest generation is alive today and the same service and sacrifice that inspired and sustained the generation that fought and won World War II, inspires and sustains the young men and women who at this very hour are protecting our freedoms and liberties abroad. "May God bless all of them and their families, and may God bless America."
06.03.2009	06.03.09 Resolution Recognizing 75th Anniversary of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park Passes Congress Yesterday, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) sponsored a resolution to recognize the 75th anniversary of the creation of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park that passed both the Senate and House. The resolutions were also sponsored by Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Bob Corker (R-TN), and Kay Hagan (D-NC) in the Senate; and by Congressmen Phil Roe (R-TN 1) and Jimmy Duncan (R-TN 2) in the House "I am pleased the Senate passed a resolution today honoring the 75th anniversary of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park," Burr said."The Great Smoky Mountains National Park has been, and will forever be, an integral part of North Carolina's history and culture. Even more, for 75 years the park has been an outdoor classroom for all Americans, a place where all generations can come and discover the wonder of nature. "I congratulate all of the Park Rangers and Staff who help preserve this magnificent mountain range for us and for generations to come." The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is the most visited national park in the country, attracting over nine million visitors each year. The park today covers approximately 521,621 acres of land in North Carolina and Tennessee, making it the largest protected area in the eastern United States.
05.28.2009	05.28.09 Senator Richard Burr Honors Veterans in Speech at American Cemetery in Normandy U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, led a delegation of Senators to the official Memorial Day Ceremonies at the Normandy American Cemetery in France where he gave a speech honoring American veterans. He then laid a wreath in honor of the more than 10,000 American service members who gave their lives on the beaches of Normandy and made possible the liberation of Europe in World War II. There are 269 North Carolinians interred in the Normandy American Cemetery. The full text of Burr's speech can be found below: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am honored to have the privilege to speak to you today. I am humbled to be in the presence of so many World War II veterans, most notably those that stormed these beaches 65 years ago and fought the battles that liberated France. Ernie Pyle, the famous American war correspondent once wrote, "War makes strange giant creatures out of little routine men who inhabit the earth." Sixty five years ago today, tens of thousands of routine men waited, as Ray Lambert did, in marshalling areas and airfields across England. To give you some sense of the magnitude of the Allied commitment to liberate France, over three hundred thousand troops in 38 divisions, over 500 squadrons of aircraft, and nearly 7,000 naval vessels were assigned to Operations Neptune and Overlord. That imposing armada was the culmination of the collective treasure and industry of free nations joined together in a common purpose. But the battles were ultimately decided, as they have always been, by ordinary men and women doing extraordinary things. Ray and his brothers-in-arms did not set out to make history. They set out only to do their jobs, protect their buddies, and go home. But they made history nonetheless. It was their sacrifices on these beaches and among these hedgerows that allow us to stand in a free France - a free Europe - on this most important of days. It is important to remember that the troops who landed here were representative of the nearly ten million American men drafted into military service and the five and a half million who volunteered during the war years. They were an extension of an American home front made up of folks from all ages and walks of life; people from cities and small towns who toiled on factory floors, in shipyards, and on farms and who organized communities across the United States with war bond drives, the rationing of sugar, and the conservation of rubber and metal. Such a total and unflinching commitment to victory might seem somehow quaint to us in today's developed world, where we enjoy an abundance of everything, but the men, women, and children of that era were used to sacrifice, and they had known hunger and hardship for years before the war began. They were a tough bunch.Some of those tough Americans came from my home state of North Carolina.Men like Charles and James Summers, brothers from the small town of Archdale. In early June of 1944, James was serving in Italy. His older brother Charles was preparing to land on the Normandy coast. Charles was killed shortly after the landing, James four months later. Today, they lay side by side in this cemetery, six decades and 4,000 miles from home. Their sister Betty still lives near Archdale and looks forward to the day when she can visit them here, and be close to them once more. Charles and James Summers were everyday Americans who answered the call to service in those difficult times - citizens who became soldiers and left their jobs and families in towns like Archdale, Greenville, and Wilmington to cross the ocean and join the fight. Most who landed on the beaches nearby had never seen combat and, though well equipped, they couldn't imagine the fierce fight that lay ahead in the hedgerows and forests south of here. Throughout the summer of '44, they doggedly made up for their shortcomings with superb leadership and determined spirit. Two hundred and sixty nine North Carolinians rest nearby; the names of nine are etched on the wall in the Garden of the Missing. They are joined among the silent rows of crosses by over nine thousand of their fellow soldiers, sailors, airmen and coast guardsmen who answered their nation's and freedom's call. Their legacy is alive today, seven years into a struggle to defeat another violent and oppressive ideology. The same selfless devotion that inspired and sustained the generation that fought and won World War II, inspires and sustains the young men and women who at this very hour are standing watch on lonely mountain outposts and patrolling the streets of desert villages. They face another great test of wills in the fight against terrorism and these sons and daughters of America understand clearly what's at stake in this fight. They have experienced hardships few will ever endure, confronted challenges and setbacks with grace and resolve, and prevailed when the odds were stacked against them. And like their forefathers, the latest American generation to come of age on distant battlefields also knows the horrible toll war exacts on mind, body, and soul. Since 2001, they have shouldered the heavy burdens of combat and struggled with its often lonely aftermath. Foremost in our minds and hearts today is the American generation that helped liberate France from Nazi oppression and ultimately changed the course of history. But we also honor the generations that came before them who have unselfishly answered the call to service and given their lives in peace and war. Like the young giants who once crossed this shore and never went home, they are a constant reminder that liberty is never a guarantee, but a gift that must be defended. May God bless them and their families, and may God bless America.
05.26.2009	05.26.09 Senator Burr's Statement on Judge Sotomayor's Supreme Court Nomination "As with all nominees for the Supreme Court, I am committed to ensuring that the confirmation process is thorough and fair, and look forward to Judge Sotomayor's upcoming confirmation hearings. While her personal story is indeed inspiring, I hope that through the confirmation process we will have an opportunity to fully review her judicial experience and record." - Senator Richard Burr
05.22.2009	05.22.09 Senators Burr, Chambliss and Graham and Representative Kline to Honor Normandy Veterans at Memorial Day Ceremonies U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and U.S. Representative John Kline (R-MN), will lead the official Memorial Day Ceremonies at the Normandy American Cemetery in France. On May 24, the members will honor the extraordinary contributions of veterans to our nation at the Normandy American Cemetery. As Ranking Member of the Veteran Affairs Committee, Senator Burr will deliver a speech to commemorate the courage and sacrifice of those who landed at Normandy almost 65 years ago. The members will then lay a wreath in honor of the thousands of American service members who gave their lives on the beaches of Normandy and made possible the liberation of Europe in World War II. "These veterans, who so selflessly gave of themselves and paid the ultimate price for our country, strengthened the foundation of our grateful nation," Senator Burr said. "We owe these brave Americans a debt we will never be able to fully repay. I am honored to be able to represent the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the United States Senate, and North Carolina on such hallowed ground." "Sixty-five years ago, young American men hailing from big cities, sleepy towns and small farms struggled through Normandy's churning surf amid a hail of gunfire to secure Europe's freedom. Thousands never came back," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "I am humbled by their sacrifice and honored to remember them - including 213 Georgians - in this final resting place on the edge of the continent they liberated." "My father served in the Army Air Corps in World War II in the Pacific theater," said Graham. "I remember very well the pride he took in serving our nation. He always talked about his buddies who didn't make it home as being the 'real heroes.' I am honored and humbled to be able to spend this Memorial Day in the company of those 'real heroes.' In a far away land, they made the ultimate sacrifice for the nation they loved. We remain thankful for their service and will forever remember their sacrifice." "The freedoms and liberties we cherish on this day are owed to the blood and sacrifice of the veterans buried here," said Minnesota Congressman John Kline, a 25-year veteran of the Marine Corps who retired at the rank of Colonel. "This Memorial Day, we honor all of those who left us too soon, whose lives were cut short on distant battlefields. We must never forget those true American heroes to whom we owe so much." The ceremony will highlight the contributions made by our nation's veterans, many of whom paid the ultimate price in the struggle against tyranny and oppression. After the Normandy ceremonies, the congressional delegation will visit other nations on work related to the Select Committee on Intelligence before returning to the United States.
05.22.2009	05.22.09 Senators Burr, Chambliss and Graham and Representative Kline to Honor Normandy Veterans at Memorial Day Ceremonies U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and U.S. Representative John Kline (R-MN), will lead the official Memorial Day Ceremonies at the Normandy American Cemetery in France. On May 24, the members will honor the extraordinary contributions of veterans to our nation at the Normandy American Cemetery. As Ranking Member of the Veteran Affairs Committee, Senator Burr will deliver a speech to commemorate the courage and sacrifice of those who landed at Normandy almost 65 years ago. The members will then lay a wreath in honor of the thousands of American service members who gave their lives on the beaches of Normandy and made possible the liberation of Europe in World War II. "These veterans, who so selflessly gave of themselves and paid the ultimate price for our country, strengthened the foundation of our grateful nation," Senator Burr said. "We owe these brave Americans a debt we will never be able to fully repay. I am honored to be able to represent the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the United States Senate, and North Carolina on such hallowed ground." "Sixty-five years ago, young American men hailing from big cities, sleepy towns and small farms struggled through Normandy's churning surf amid a hail of gunfire to secure Europe's freedom. Thousands never came back," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "I am humbled by their sacrifice and honored to remember them - including 213 Georgians - in this final resting place on the edge of the continent they liberated." "My father served in the Army Air Corps in World War II in the Pacific theater," said Graham. "I remember very well the pride he took in serving our nation. He always talked about his buddies who didn't make it home as being the 'real heroes.' I am honored and humbled to be able to spend this Memorial Day in the company of those 'real heroes.' In a far away land, they made the ultimate sacrifice for the nation they loved. We remain thankful for their service and will forever remember their sacrifice." "The freedoms and liberties we cherish on this day are owed to the blood and sacrifice of the veterans buried here," said Minnesota Congressman John Kline, a 25-year veteran of the Marine Corps who retired at the rank of Colonel. "This Memorial Day, we honor all of those who left us too soon, whose lives were cut short on distant battlefields. We must never forget those true American heroes to whom we owe so much." The ceremony will highlight the contributions made by our nation's veterans, many of whom paid the ultimate price in the struggle against tyranny and oppression. After the Normandy ceremonies, the congressional delegation will visit other nations on work related to the Select Committee on Intelligence before returning to the United States.
05.21.2009	05.21.09 Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Meets to Vote on Pending Legislation Veterans Second Amendment Protection and Military Spouses Residency Relief Acts pass Committee Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs met to vote on pending legislation affecting veterans' health care and benefits. "I am pleased the Committee voted to send a bill directing advance appropriations for VA health care to the full Senate," Senator Burr said. "It is wrong to put the quality of care our nation's veterans receive at risk because VA doesn't know what its budget will be." The Committee voted to send Senator Burr's Military Spouses Residency Relief Act to the full Senate. In recent decades, there has been a growing recognition that military spouses play a very important role in the success of our Armed Forces. But, even though they frequently move in support of servicemembers and the military, they are not provided with the same residency benefits afforded to servicemembers. Currently, servicemembers have the ability to claim and maintain one state of residence, regardless of where military orders may send them. The Military Spouses Residency Relief Act would extend similar rights to military spouses, easing some of the burden and headaches they now face. The Committee voted favorably on two other provisions authored by Senator Burr. One would allow veterans with severe traumatic brain injury to qualify for the highest levels of so-called "aid and attendance" benefits - benefits provided to veterans who, as a result of service-connected disabilities, need the assistance of others in carrying out their daily activities. The other would end the delay in receiving disability checks that certain veterans who are medically retired from the military face after they separate. In addition, the Committee approved the Caregiver and Veterans Health Services Act of 2009 to provide long overdue assistance to the family caregivers of seriously injured veterans. They also voted to approve Senator Burr's Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act, which would prohibit VA from sending the names of veterans and other VA beneficiaries to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System - a government database used to deny individuals the ability to purchase a firearm - unless an appropriate judicial authority first makes the determination that these individuals pose a danger to themselves or others. "With Memorial Day fast approaching, and Americans taking the time to remember the service and sacrifice of veterans who paid the ultimate price for our country, we must also take the opportunities to support our current servicemembers and veterans, as well as their spouses and families who also put military service ahead of self and contribute to making our nation what it is today," Burr added.
05.20.2009	05.20.09 Senators Burr, Coburn and Representatives Ryan, Nunes Offer a Better Path Forward on Health Care Reform Bicameral Coalition of Reformers Unveil “The Patients’ Choice Act of 2009” Earlier today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) and U.S. Representatives Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Devin Nunes (R-CA) introduced health care reform legislation that delivers on the shared principles of promoting universal access to quality, affordable health care, and does so without adding billions of dollars in new debt or taxes. "The Patients' Choice Act of 2009," transforms health care in America by strengthening the relationship between the patient and the doctor; using choice and competition rather than rationing and restrictions to contain costs; and ensuring universal, affordable health care for all Americans. "The Patients' Choice Act" promotes innovative, State-based solutions, along with fundamental reforms in the tax code, to give every American, regardless of employment status, age, or health condition, the ability and the resources to purchase health insurance. The comprehensive legislation includes concrete prevention and transparency initiatives, long overdue reforms to Medicare and Medicaid, investments in wellness programs and health IT, and more. "The American health care system needs a complete transformation," Senator Burr said. "The Patients' Choice Act will finally enable Americans to own their health care instead of being trapped in the current system, which leaves people either uninsured, dependent on their employer, or forced into a government program. With a focus on prevention and wellness and covering those with pre-existing conditions, the Patients' Choice Act will make health care affordable and accessible to all Americans." "As a practicing physician, I have seen first-hand how giving government more control over health care has failed to make health care more affordable and accessible. The American people deserve health care reform that will work, not another round of so-called reform that repeats the same failed policies of the past. Congress and the administration have the opportunity to pursue bold reform and a fresh start. The Patients' Choice Act will provide every American with access to affordable health care without a tax increase, more debt and waiting lines," Dr. Coburn said. "Both parties need to step up to the plate with specific solutions to our nation's health care crisis," added Ryan. "The Patients' Choice Act represents a clear alternative to those who seek to empower Washington at the expense of the individual, and I am hopeful that our efforts can help push Congress to enact a more sensible health care reform bill this year. The Patients' Choice Act proves that America can have universal health care coverage without the government running our health care system." Nunes stated, "The American people deserve a health care system that is centered on their individual needs. Our bill will allow us to achieve this goal, while improving health outcomes, lowering cost and guaranteeing access to health care for every single American." For additional information on The Patients' Choice Act, please visit: http://www.house.gov/ryan/PCA.
05.11.2009	05.11.09 Senator Richard Burr Introduces Legislation to Help Veterans with TBI and Servicemembers Transitioning to Civilian Life Legislation would expand benefits and eliminate compensation delay U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, issued the following statement after he introduced two bills to improve benefits for veterans who are challenged by the effects of a traumatic brain injury (TBI) and helping medically separated and medically retired servicemembers make a seamless transition to civilian life: "Today, I, along with Senators Dick Durbin (D-Illinois) and Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), introduced legislation that would allow veterans with severe traumatic brain injuries to qualify for the highest levels of "aid and attendance" benefits provided by VA. This bill would give these veterans the financial resources to arrange whatever services they need to live in their own homes, with their families, and within their communities. "For veterans with traumatic brain injuries, this bill would allow them to choose how their needs will be met, give them more flexibility and independence, and ultimately improve the quality of their lives. It is important to help severely injured veterans return to civilian life as closely as possible to the way they left it, and this bill is one step in that direction. "I also introduced legislation to eliminate the delay - now required by law - in how soon VA disability payments begin after a veteran is medically retired or medically separated from the military. This bill would allow these veterans to leave the military at the time that best suits their needs, without the stress and financial burden caused by a delay in receiving their VA disability checks. It is my hope that this bill will help injured servicemembers experience a more seamless transition from active duty to civilian life."
05.08.2009	05.08.09 Senator Burr Statement on the Water Contamination Investigation at Camp Lejeune Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement regarding the Agency on Toxic Substances and Disease Registry's (ATSDR) recent reversal of its position regarding water contamination at Camp Lejeune. "I am deeply troubled to learn that the government's 1997 study of hazardous chemicals in the Camp Lejeune water supply contained errors and omissions. These recent official acknowledgements are raising more questions than answers. Our government needs to honor its commitment tothe Camp Lejeuneveterans and their families who have endured years of pain and doubt.I will work to make sure that the government finally gets servicemembers, veterans, and their families the answers they deserve."
05.07.2009	05.07.09 Senator Richard Burr Introduces Resolution to Honor “Military Spouse Appreciation Day” Senate passes resolution by unanimous consent This Friday, May 8, 2009 has been designated as "Military Spouse Appreciation Day," after a resolution sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California) passed the Senate yesterday. "Military spouses provide vital support to the men and women in the Armed Forces by making their service possible, and I am pleased the Senate joined in recognizing military spouses yesterday," Senator Burr said. Passed by unanimous consent, Senators Burr and Feinstein's resolution establishes this Friday, May 8, 2009, as a day to honor the outstanding contributions spouses make to our country's military men and women, as well as to our nation as a whole. This resolution also encourages our nation to observe "Military Spouse Appreciation Day" to promote awareness of the contributions of military spouses and their extraordinary role in the lives of our Armed Forces and veterans. In addition to yesterday's resolution, Senator Burr has introduced legislation, S.475, the Military Spouses Residency Relief Act, currently pending before the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, which would give military spouses who frequently move on federal orders the same rights to establish residency as their servicemember spouse. "Our military, their spouses and their families are often called on to make frequent relocations, which can be very disruptive to their lives, and it is only fair that we give the same residency benefits to spouses as we do to servicemembers," Senator Burr added. "Yesterday's resolution and my legislation are just two small steps we can take to help those who make sacrifices everyday to support our men and women in uniform."
05.04.2009	05.04.09 Burr Statement on H1N1 Flu in North Carolina Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement regarding reports of the first confirmed case of H1N1 flu in North Carolina:"While I am concerned about the first confirmed case of the 2009 H1N1 flu in North Carolina, I am confident in the ability of our public health professionals to handle the situation. They are taking responsible and appropriate action at the state and national level to limit the spread of the outbreak and treat those who are sick."Improving our nation's preparedness and response capabilities for public health emergencies has long been a top priority of mine. I am proud that our efforts in this area have strengthened the nation's public health infrastructure and provided a larger range of response tools for health professionals."All North Carolinians should take the proper precautions to ensure that they do all they can to reduce their risk of catching the flu. For more information about the flu and precautions that can be taken, I encourage people to visit the websites of the Center for Disease Control (http://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/#stay_healthy) and North Carolina Division of Public Health (http://www.ncpublichealth.com/). My homepage at burr.senate.gov also contains updates on the latest information about the flu."
04.29.2009	04.29.09 Senator Burr Statement on HELP Committee Hearing on Flu Outbreak Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement after the Committee's hearing on our nation's public health and medical response to the 2009 H1N1 flu outbreak. "We are deeply saddened by the news this morning of the death in the United States related to this flu outbreak. Americans are understandably concerned and are watching very closely. Three years ago, Senator Kennedy (D-Massachusetts) and I introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, which gave the Department of Health and Human Services and our health professionals new tools to protect the American people more effectively and efficiently in public health emergencies. "I am ready to work with the Administration and my colleagues to do what we need to do to make sure that we fight the spread of the 2009 H1N1 flu and protect the health of Americans.While we have immediate needs to address, we must also not lose sight of the ongoing work that must be done if our nation is going to be fully prepared for future public health emergencies. "This situation underscores the reason why we must invest in important emergency preparedness and response programs, like the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, so that our nation is prepared for what we must tackle today and what we may have to confront in the future."
04.29.2009	04.29.09 Senator Burr's Opening Statement at HELP Committee Hearing to Address 2009 H1N1 Flu Outbreak Senator Brown, thank you for holding today's hearing on this very important topic of the 2009 H1N1 flu outbreak, which has also been referred to as "swine flu", and our nation's public health and medical response. I would like to thank our witnesses, Dr. Besser and Dr. Fauci, for taking the time to be with the Committee today to bring us up to speed on the latest with this outbreak. Thank you for your leadership in protecting our nation's health. I look forward to hearing your honest assessment of the current situation. We are deeply saddened and sobered by the news this morning of the first death in the United States, a young child. Americans, especially parents, are understandably concerned and are watching this situation very closely. During the 109th Congress, I chaired the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness. Building on the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina and September 11th, Congress took a hard look at how we could better prepare and respond to public health and medical emergencies. The Subcommittee held multiple public hearings, roundtables, and meetings, and Congress received significant input from public health officials, medical experts, emergency managers, biotechnology companies, and stakeholders from across our nation. These actions culminated with the passage of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act of 2006. I am very proud to have authored this important bipartisan law and to have worked with many of my colleagues on this Committee, including Senators Kennedy and Enzi, on this bill and other important pieces of legislation. Through the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, Congress empowered the Department of Health and Human Services with the tools it needs to protect the American people more effectively and efficiently in response to a public health emergency. Since 2006, the Department has made progress in implementing this law. I hope one good story that we will see come out of this situation is that the tools that Congress gave the Department are being put to good use in responding to H1N1. For example, this law established the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, or ASPR, to unify the Department's preparedness and response programs. Since its inception, ASPR has carried out significant preparedness and response planning, and is now playing a critical role in the current public health emergency by helping to coordinate response efforts with federal, State, and local public health partners. In addition, the National Biodefense Science Board, which was also created by this law, provides important advice and guidance to HHS on matters related to public health emergency preparedness and response. With the passage of this law in 2006, HHS now has additional authority to make sure we are prepared and can respond to an emergency like the one we are experiencing today. In particular, in the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, Congress created the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA, to speed up the development of countermeasures -- such as vaccines or treatments -- to protect Americans against a potential chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear terrorist attack, or other public health emergency such as a pandemic flu. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act authorized over a billion dollars for BARDA. But - despite my best efforts -- Congress has failed to provide this full funding. Thankfully, even without full funding, BARDA has been able to identify promising countermeasures, fund the advanced research and development necessary for making these products available, and has supported their acquisition, stockpiling, and deployment. I believe firmly that, thanks to BARDA and the investment we have made over the last few years, our nation is now much better positioned to quickly respond to the H1N1 flu outbreak and other potential pandemics. I am ready to work with the Administration and my colleagues to do what we need to do to make sure that we fight the spread of the H1N1 flu as much as possible and protect the health of Americans, especially the most vulnerable of our society. While we have immediate needs at hand to address, we must also not lose sight of the ongoing work that must be done if our nation is going to be fully prepared for future public health emergencies or a bioterrorist attack. This outbreak should be a wake up call to all of us for why we cannot let our guard down. We must continue to invest in BARDA and other tools so that we can tackle not only today's public health emergency but also what we may have to confront in the future. I thank the Chair.
04.28.2009	04.28.09 Burr Statement on Emergency Preparedness and Swine Flu Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) gave the following statement on emergency efforts to respond to the swine flu: "We are working to determine the severity of the current swine flu situation so we can decide how to best respond. I am ready to work with the Administration to ensure that we mitigate the impact of the swine flu as much as possible. Legislation passed three years ago gave the U.S. government additional tools to deal with this kind of public health emergency. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, a bill I authored that was signed into law in 2006, took important steps to increase our preparedness and response capabilities for public health emergencies, and improve our ability to develop drug and vaccine countermeasures to fight against emergencies like a flu pandemic. The current situation underscores the need to fund these important emergency preparedness and response programs."
04.23.2009	04.23.09 Burr Statement on VA Committee Hearing Pending health care legislation addressed WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, issued the following statement after the Committee's hearing on pending veterans' health care legislation: "Yesterday's hearing marked a critical step forward in the Committee's consideration of important legislation, including the Family Caregiver Program Act (S.801), a bill I introduced with Chairman Akaka to strengthen support for family caregivers and attendants of veterans who make sacrifices to care for traumatically injured veterans. I am especially grateful for the service and feedback of Eric Edmundson and his family, and Ted and Sarah Wade, who are examples of North Carolina veteran families who would benefit from this legislation. "We also examined the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act (S. 423). This bill would fund the Veterans Health Administration in two-year cycles instead of the current yearly appropriation. Advanced appropriations will help VA get their health care funding on time and prevent delays in veterans' health care services. "Additionally, the committee discussed S. 669, a bill I introduced titled the Veterans' Second Amendment Protection Act. This bill would end the arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans and other VA beneficiaries of their Second Amendment rights. It would require a judicial authority to determine that a VA beneficiary poses a danger to themselves or others before VA sends their names to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System, a system which prevents individuals from purchasing firearms. Our veterans deserve the same due process that every other citizen enjoys." ###
04.23.2009	04.23.09 Senator Burr Introduces Resolution Honoring UNC on their NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship Title WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement in response to the Senate passing a resolution congratulating the University of North Carolina's basketball team for winning the 2008-2009 NCAA Men's Basketball National Championship. "Congratulations to the University of North Carolina men's basketball team for winning their fifth NCAA Championship Title," Burr said. "I am pleased the Senate has recognized the hard work and achievement of the players, coaches, students and staff whose perseverance and dedication contributed to the Tar Heels bringing home the National Title. This is a team that all North Carolinians can be proud of." ###
04.03.2009	04.03.09 Burr Amendment to Prevent Third-Party Billing Amendment would change the budget rules to prevent charging Veteran’s private insurance for service-related care Yesterday, the Senate adopted an amendment by U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, to the budget resolution that would prohibit legislation authorizing the Department of Veterans Affairs to bill insurance for the care it provides to veterans for service-related injuries or diseases. "The VA was created to care for those who have fought and sacrificed for our country," Burr said. "Our veterans have more than earned their care, and it is our duty to uphold this sacred promise." Earlier this year, the President considered a policy to charge veterans' private insurance for service-related care in an attempt to address budgetary concerns. This policy has been criticized by veterans' service organizations and lawmakers alike for contradicting the VA's purpose and mission "to care for him who shall have borne the battle." By establishing a "budget point of order" against such legislation, Senator Burr's amendment ensures that any legislation directing VA to bill a veteran's private insurance for service-related care would require a higher threshold for consideration in the Senate. This amendment is supported by Disabled American Veterans, Veterans of Foreign Wars and Paralyzed Veterans of America. "The Department of Veterans Affairs was created to care for the wounds of those sent to defend our country," Burr added. "When those men and women return home with wounds of war, their medical expenses should be paid for by the same government who sent them in harm's way."
04.03.2009	04.03.09 Burr Introduces “Family Caregiver Program Act of 2009” Legislation would strengthen support for family caregivers U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today joined with Committee Chairman Senator Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii) to introduce the Family Caregiver Program Act of 2009. The legislation would strengthen support for caregivers and attendants of veterans and would help ensure veterans in need of institutional care have the choice of receiving care from a family member at home. "Family caregivers play an important and unique role in helping to meet veterans' personal care needs, both physically and emotionally," Burr said. "Too often, family members who serve as primary caregivers face significant challenges in caring for their loved ones. It is my hope that this legislation will alleviate the burdens family caregivers face in caring for veterans in North Carolina and across our nation." "VA's motto is to 'care for him who shall have borne the battle.' In many cases, that care is already being provided to wounded and ailing veterans at home by their families. VA must recognize and support these family caregivers for what they are: partners in a shared mission," said Akaka. Senator Burr's bill would establish new assistance for caregivers who meet certain requirements. This includes training and certification required to meet the veterans' needs, as well as access to ongoing support services through direct technical support, counseling and mental health services, respite care, medical care, and a monthly personal caregiver allowance. Strengthening support for families was a key recommendation from the Dole-Shalala Commission, which identified the explicit action of the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs providing families of service members who require long-term personal care with appropriate training and counseling to support them in their caregiver roles. This legislation is supported by the Wounded Warrior Project.
03.30.2009	03.30.09 Burr Introduces “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Resolution Legislation to honor service members who fought in Vietnam Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced a resolution in support of the establishment of "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day." Designating March 30, 2009, as "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" honors the return home of our armed service members after serving in Vietnam. This legislation has bi-partisan support and is co-sponsored by Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS), Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS). The House of Representatives passed a similar resolution introduced by Representative Linda Sanchez (D-CA) on March 24, 2009. "There's no question that our troops served our country bravely and faithfully during the Vietnam War, and these veterans deserve our recognition and gratitude," Burr said. "Unfortunately, when these service members returned home, they were caught in the crossfire of public debate about our nation's involvement in the Vietnam War. As a result, these brave men and women never received the welcome reception and recognition they deserved." "On March 30, 1973, our United States Armed Forces completed the withdrawal of combat troops from Vietnam," Senator Inhofe said. "Our veterans who served in the U.S. Armed Forces in Vietnam deserve the greatest honor and respect - honor and respect they were denied when they arrived home. I am proud to join my colleagues in support of this resolution to establish a day in honor of the return of all troops from the Vietnam War." The United States became involved in Vietnam because policy-makers believed that if South Vietnam fell to a communist government, communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia. The US Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961, and in 1965, ground combat troops were sent into Vietnam. After many years of combat, all US troops were withdrawn from Vietnam on March 30, 1973, under the terms of the Treaty of Paris. Therefore, March 30, 2009, is an appropriate day to establish "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day." More than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives and more than 300,000 were wounded in Vietnam. The establishment of a "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day" would serve as a small way to honor these men and women who served our country in Vietnam throughout the war.
03.27.2009	03.27.09 Senator Burr Statement on the Serve America Act U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement regarding last night's vote on the Serve America Act: "Yesterday, the Senate voted to reauthorize the major federally funded community service and volunteer programs under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (NCSA) and the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (DVSA). "The bill contains several financial management improvements for the Corporation for National Service. Additionally, it contains restrictions on the types of activities for which national service positions can be used, preventing participants from engaging in activities such as voter registration drives (by groups such as ACORN), political or legislative advocacy, or providing abortion services as part of their volunteer activities under the program. Further, it prohibits organizations found to be in violation of a federal criminal statute from receiving assistance under the national service law. "I was pleased to have three amendments included in the bill. Two of these amendments relate to ensuring accurate graduation rate reporting and ensuring that high schools with low graduation rates are targeted for improvement programs. The third amendment strengthens the requirements for criminal background checks for individuals working with vulnerable populations (children, the elderly, the disabled) on a regular basis by requiring a check through the Adam Walsh sexual predator database, a state criminal check, and FBI fingerprinting."
03.23.2009	03.23.09 Burr Introduces “Veterans’ Second Amendment Protection Act” Legislation would end arbitrary process that strips veterans of rights Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with 14 other cosponsors, introduced legislation that would end an arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans and other Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) beneficiaries of their Second Amendment rights. Under current practice, veterans who have a fiduciary appointed to act on their behalf are deemed "mentally defective" and are reported to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), a system which prevents individuals from purchasing firearms in the United States.The Veterans' Second Amendment Protection Act would require a judicial authority to determine that a VA beneficiary poses a danger to themselves or others before VA may send their names to be listed in the FBI's NICS. "Under current law, veterans who have come to VA for help but who are determined to be unable to manage their own financial affairs are labeled as mentally defective and, on that basis alone, are denied their 2nd amendment rights," Burr said."I am very concerned that government employees can so easily take away a veteran's right to bear arms.My legislation would protect the rights of veterans and their families by ensuring that only a proper judicial authority is able to determine who is referred to NICS." The Federal Gun Control Act prohibits certain individuals who have been deemed a "mental defective" from purchasing a firearm.Over 116,000 people who receive VA benefits have been reported to NICS since 1999, stripping them of their constitutional rights simply because VA appointed a fiduciary to act on their behalf. A fiduciary is assigned to handle disability compensation, pensions, survivors' compensation, and other VA payments on behalf of a veteran, surviving spouse, dependent child, or dependent parent.VA's review process for assigning a fiduciary is meant to determine one's ability to manage VA-provided cash assistance. The process does not determine whether they are a danger to themselves or others. "Taking away a Constitutional right is a serious action and veterans should be afforded due process under the law.Our veterans took an oath to uphold the Constitution and they deserve to enjoy the rights they fought so hard to protect," Burr added. During the 110th Congress, the Veterans' Second Amendment Protection Act was offered by Senator Burr as an amendment at a Veterans' Affairs Committee markup.The measure was approved in Committee but did not receive consideration by the full Senate. The bill is supported by The American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, AMVETS, and the Military Order of the Purple Heart.
03.19.2009	03.19.09 Burr Introduces the Medical Economic Deferment for Students (MEDS) Act Legislation helps medical students facing economic hardship U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced a bill to help medical students as they start their medical residency. The Medical Economic Deferment for Students Act (MEDS Act)would restore the medical student loan deferment program, also known as the 20/220 rule. This rule was eliminated in the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (P.L. 110-84) and has had a negative effect on the ability of medical residents to repay their student loans. "Many of our nation's medical residents rely on the loan deferment program, and I am pleased to offer this bill to give them assistance as they start their careers," Burr said. Medical residents on average have a student loan debt of $130,571. Under the 20/220 rule, students were able to defer loan payments without accruing interest on their federally-subsidized student loans for up to three years. Qualifications included a debt burden of greater than 20% of their income, and that their income minus their debt burden could not be greater than 220% of the federal poverty level. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, up to 67% of graduating medical students are eligible for deferment under the rule. Reinstating the 20/220 provision permanently ensures that medical residents will not be forced to begin repaying their loans before they have the means. "As we hear reports that our country will soon face a shortage of doctors, it makes no sense that we would make it even harder for students who aren't independently wealthy to pursue a career in medicine. This bill will give medical students a helping hand as they set out to care for the sick or discover the next medical breakthrough," Burr added. The American Medical Association has warned that the higher debt burden these residents will face can deter many from practicing in underserved areas of the country or in medical education and research. With recent reports indicating the United States is facing a shortage of physicians in the future, reinstatement of the student loan deferment could prompt students who could otherwise not afford medical school to give a career in medicine a second look.
02.28.2009	02.28.09 Radio Address by Senator Richard Burr To listen to the audio of Senator Burr's radio address, please click here. "Hello, this is U.S. Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina. "This week, President Obama shared with all Americans his priorities and concerns about the serious economic challenges we are facing. I appreciated his optimism and agree with him that our country has the ability to overcome this significant economic challenge. The strongest tool we as Americans have is our ability to rally together and find solutions with unity of purpose. There is no limit to our ability and potential when we as a nation and as a people work together. Many times, disagreements between the two political parties in Washington get all the headlines. What's not reported is the fact that Republicans and Democrats agree on where we want to go, but we disagree on how we're going to get there. "These uncertain times present us with a defining moment. The actions and decisions we make and the actions we take in our nation's capital and in state capitals across the country will have a profound impact on our way of life for years to come. Families facing tough decisions at home know this because they are confronting the same challenges. Washington needs to understand this reality as well. It's difficult to fully appreciate, but every time Congress and the President spends a dollar, it's actually a dollar plus interest that our children and our grandchildren will have to pay back. We must remind ourselves of this fact every day. Unfortunately, Washington is in a state of denial. Our spending habits haven't gotten better, they've only gotten worse. "It seems that every morning you pick up the newspaper, you're reading about another multi-billion dollar government spending plan being proposed or even worse, passed. The numbers are so large, and the deficits so staggering, it's difficult for the average person to imagine how much money we're talking about. We become numb to what the dollar figures really mean, or the obligation that accompanies them. Let me take a moment to try to explain what is happening in Washington right now, and what it will mean for all of us down the road. "This week, the president submitted to Congress the single largest increase in federal spending in the history of the United States, while driving the deficit to levels that were once thought impossible. If we just look at what our debt spending will cost us in interest payments alone, we are talking about $4 trillion over the next 10 years, more than a billion dollars of interest payments every day. Think of that $4 trillion as a finance charge on your credit card bill - you have to pay it, but you get nothing for it in return. This finance charge obligates more than $52,000 for every family in America over the same 10-year period. These payments don't even make a dent in the balance we owe. In fact, the balance on our credit card continues to grow as we continue to spend. Like a family that finds itself choking under the weight of credit card balances and finance charges, the federal government is quickly obligating the American people to a similar fate. "This is why we must keep our eye on the big picture. For two centuries, the American Dream has depended on the simple belief that men and women work hard so their children would have a better future. Looking at the spending priorities of Democrats in Washington in the proposed budget and over the past month, it's hard to escape the reality that for the first time we could see the American Dream vanish. Now, instead of working hard so our children can have a better life tomorrow, we are asking our children to work hard so we don't have to make tough choices today. "It's long past time to show restraint and to make the tough choices that will help put our fiscal house in order. Generations of Americans past have often been called on to make great sacrifices for their country. Many have made the ultimate sacrifice. Is it not time for government to make sacrifices for future generations? It's time for those elected to lead. Will we rise to the challenge, and make the tough choices necessary or will we simply hand the obligation to our children and wish them luck? "Thanks for listening."
02.26.2009	02.26.09 Burr to Deliver Republican Radio Address This Weekend Address will focus on the need for fiscal responsibility U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) will deliver the weekly Republican radio address on Saturday, February 28, 2009. Senator Burr will speak on the lack of fiscal restraint in Washington and the impact it is having on American families. Audio and video of his address will be available on his website (http://burr.senate.gov) on Saturday, February 28, 2009.
02.26.2009	02.26.09 Burr, Kennedy Introduce Bill to Improve Biosecurity Measures Bill will modernize regulations for bioterrorism agents Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA), introduced the Select Agent Program and Biosafety Improvement Act of 2009, to improve America's approach to biosecurity by reauthorizing the Select Agent Program and enhancing the safety of biological research laboratories. The Select Agent Program regulates the transfer, possession, and use of biological substances that pose a serious threat to public health and could be used for bioterrorism. Authorization for the program expired in September of 2007. Representative Jane Harman (D-CA) introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives. "We must support scientific research while also making sure select agents are kept out of the hands of terrorists and are used safely and securely in our laboratories," Burr said. "Reauthorizing the Select Agent Program is vital to ensuring our nation's safety and security, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to reauthorize and improve the program." "Our ability to protect Americans against modern-day dangers depends on robust scientific research to counter biological threats. The bill that we introduce today helps protect Americans from biological threats, while also protecting scientific freedom and integrity," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. "The threat of bioterrorism - whether a small pox outbreak, pandemic flu, or proliferation of deadly ricin - is real. Weaponized biological agents can spread and infect at a ferocious pace," said Rep. Harman. "This isn't about playing the 'fear card,' this is a call for a better action plan. A sophisticated system for tracking deadly agents and securing the nation's labs - potential Petri dishes for WMDs - should be a staple component of our national defense." In addition to reauthorizing the Select Agent Program, the Select Agent Program and Biosafety Improvement Act would evaluate federal oversight of our most secure biological laboratories, improve training for laboratory workers, and establish an incident reporting system to help identify protocols for safety and security improvements. The recent report by the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism called for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to tighten government oversight of high containment labs.
02.25.2009	02.25.09 Burr, Feinstein Introduce Bill to Address Residency Rights for Military Spouses Bill would help ease the burdens of military families when they are transferred U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California) today introduced legislation that will allow military spouses to maintain or change residency when their family relocates due to military orders. The Military Spouses Residency Relief Act will provide spouses the same residency benefits afforded to our servicemembers. Representative John Carter (TX-31) introduced similar legislation in House of Representatives today as well. "This bill will give military spouses the ability to keep or change residency regardless of where military orders send their family," Senator Burr said. "Our military families are often called on to make frequent relocations, which can be very disruptive to family life, and it is only fair that we give the same residency benefits to spouses as we do to servicemembers. This is just one small way we can help ease the burden of military families, who make sacrifices everyday to support our men and women in uniform and to keep our country safe." "The families of Americans who volunteer for the Armed Forces make many sacrifices, including moving from state to state due to military orders," Senator Feinstein said. "Current law eases the burden of frequent moves, but does not extend the same residency privileges to spouses. For example, a military wife cannot retain joint ownership of the family vehicle in most states. So couples are forced to exclude spouses from ownership documents. And service members can vote while deployed overseas, but this right is not always extended to spouses. This legislation will change this. At a time when we are demanding so much of our military families, this bill will provide relief to military spouses, whose support at home is the bedrock of our military community." Under current law, our military men and women have the ability to claim a state of residence and maintain that residency regardless of where military orders may send them. Unfortunately, military spouses are not granted this same benefit. In addition to the stress of looking for a job every few years, this inequality means that military spouses have to deal with the other headaches of moving. Moreover, spouses are also much less likely to have their names on deeds and titles of family property because of the implications of moving to another state, leaving many feeling like second class citizens. The Military Spouses Residency Relief Act would give a military spouse who moves out of state because of military orders the same option to claim one state of domicile, regardless of where they move. If a spouse chooses to take advantage of this, the servicemember and the spouse must have the same state of residence. This bill makes the move from station to station easier, removing the need to update drivers' licenses, filing tax returns for multiple states, and changing vehicle and voter registrations with each move.
02.24.2009	02.24.09 Burr Statement on President Obama’s Address to Congress U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's address to a Joint Session of Congress: "From the economic crisis we are facing to the continued threats from those who wish us harm, our nation is confronted with many tough challenges. President Obama rightly noted many of these challenges tonight. I agree with the President that our nation can best overcome these challenges by working together. I believe the best way to turn around our economy and create good paying, long-term jobs is to let Americans keep more of what they earn in the first place. By empowering individuals, families and small businesses--not expanding the government--we can more quickly and more effectively strengthen our economy. "I applaud the president's call for fiscal responsibility, and I couldn't agree more. The out-of-control spending in Washington has got to stop. Unless we come to grips with our spending, our economy will be no better off, and Americans for years to come will be facing either massive tax increases or severe cuts in federal programs to pay off the enormous debt we have accumulated. "Finally, I was pleased to see that the president spoke about the growing epidemic of the declining high school graduation rates. Currently, only 70% of our nation's high school students graduate on time. This is simply unacceptable, and we must address it. That is why I introduced the Graduate for a Better Future Act earlier this year to help public high schools across the country improve their graduation rates.
02.13.2009	02.13.09 Burr Statement on the Stimulus Conference Report U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) released the following statement after voting against the economic "stimulus" conference report earlier this evening: "The economic stimulus legislation presented for a vote tonight in the Senate does not meet the economic challenges we are facing. In typical Washington fashion, we have thrown together a hastily-written bill with little public input, little debate, and very little thought about the long-term consequences of what we are passing. By spending nearly a trillion dollars on projects that expand the government but provide little to no stimulus, we are ensuring a massive debt for our grandchildren. "We all agree that we need to act to get our economy turned around and back on the right track, but instead of fixing housing first and giving individuals, families, and small businesses the freedom to know they would keep more of their own money, we have chosen to spend now and ask questions later. This was the wrong course of action, and that is why I could not support this bill."
02.13.2009	02.13.09 Burr Cosponsors Advanced Appropriations Bill Legislation secures timely funding for veterans U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), the Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, joined with the Committee Chairman, Senator Daniel Akaka yesterday to be an original cosponsor of the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009 (S. 423). The bill calls for the advanced funding of critical services to veterans, which currently are subject to constant delays by Congress. "Too often, funding for veterans' health care is held hostage in order to increase spending on programs that have nothing to do with veterans' services," Burr said. "This political gamesmanship is wrong, and I believe we must fix the current budget process, which continues to jeopardize funding for the care of veterans." The Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and transparency Act would fund the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) in two-year cycles through advance appropriations. This would give the agency the ability to plan its budget one-year ahead of the regular federal funding process. Currently, VHA's budget is subject to delay, which hinders its ability to plan its budgets and provide care to our veterans. "This bill has broad support in the veterans' community. By giving VA the ability to better plan its budget, it will be able to provide better and more timely care that our veterans need and deserve," Burr added. The bill is supported by The Partnership for Veterans Health Care Budget Reform, which is a group of nine veteran service organizations, including: The American Legion, AMVETS (American Veterans), BVA (Blinded Veterans Association), DAV (Disabled American Veterans), Jewish War Veterans of the USA, PVA (Paralyzed Veterans of America), VFW (Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States), and VVA (Vietnam Veterans of America, Inc.), and Military Order of the Purple Heart of the USA, Inc. For more information, please visit http://burr.senate.gov.
02.11.2009	02.11.09 Burr Introduces Bill to Improve High School Graduation Rate Bill would increase graduation rates, better prepare students for college and workforce Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) introduced the Graduate for a Better Future Act to help public high schools across the country improve their graduation rates. The bill would establish a competitive grant program targeted at high schools and school districts with the lowest high school graduation rates. Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-New Mexico) is the lead co-sponsor of the bill. "Providing our students with a quality education is the key to their future success and to the continued competitiveness of our nation in the global economy," Burr said. "A graduation rate of only 70% is simply unacceptable, and represents a crisis we must address. That's why I have introduced this bill to give our schools the tools and resources they need to combat the graduation rate crisis." Nationally, nearly 1.2 million, or one in three, high school students drop out before graduating each year. In North Carolina, only 70 percent of our students graduate from high school on time. Only 63 percent of the state's African American students graduate on time, and the number drops to 59 percent for low-income students and 56 percent for Hispanic students. According to a 2002 study by the U.S. Census Bureau, an individual without a high school diploma will earn approximately $1.1 million less than an individual with a bachelor's degree, $1.5 million less than an individual with a master's degree, and $2.4 million less than an individual with a doctoral degree over the course of their career. Additionally, a recent survey of high school dropouts conducted for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, shows that 88 percent of students who dropped out had passing grades and 58 percent dropped out with two or fewer years to complete high school. "The graduation crisis is not simply one of students under-achieving and dropping out," Burr said. "We need to reach these kids more effectively to encourage them to stay in school and we can accomplish this by focusing on the three R's--rigor, relevance, and relationships. If we excel in these areas, we can increase the number of young people who choose to stay in school and reap the lifelong benefits of a diploma." The Graduate for a Better Future Act would create a competitive grant program to: Create models of excellence for academically challenging public high schools to prepare all students for college and the workforce; Offer academic catch-up programs for those students who enter high school and do not meet proficient levels in mathematics, reading, language arts, or science. These programs would enable such students to meet proficient levels and remain on track to graduate from high school with a regular high school diploma; Implement an early warning system to quickly identify students at risk of dropping out of high school. The system would track student absenteeism, one of the greatest predictors of students who may drop out of school; Include a comprehensive college guidance program that ensures all students and their parents are regularly notified of high school graduation requirements and college entrance requirements. The program would provide guidance and assistance to students applying to postsecondary education and who are seeking federal, state, local, and private financial aid assistance and scholarships; Implement a program that offers all students opportunities for work-based and experiential learning such as job-shadowing, internships, and community service, so students make the connection between what they are learning in school and how it applies to the workplace; Implement a student advisement program in which all students are assigned to and have regular meetings with an academic teacher advisor. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP). For more information, please visit Senator Burr's website at burr.senate.gov.
02.10.2009	02.10.09 Burr Statement on Economic Stimulus Legislation Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement on the Senate passage of H.R. 1, The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009: "The current economic crisis we are facing requires action, but the stimulus bill that was voted on in the Senate today was the wrong action. It will spend nearly a trillion dollars on projects to expand government programs, and will provide little stimulus to the overall economy. In fact, this bill will cost American taxpayers $209,550 for every job the bill's supporters claim it will create. These are some of the many reasons I opposed this bill. "The serious economic crisis we are facing will balloon into an even larger crisis if our leaders do not put the government credit card away. We are expected to have a $1.2 trillion deficit this year, and the National Debt is approaching $11 trillion. With the news of additional spending in the coming weeks from the administration, we could be spending close to $3 trillion dollars in the first 60 days of the year."
02.03.2009	02.03.09 Burr Statement on the Passing of Jim Long U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today released the following statement regarding the passing of Former North Carolina Insurance Commissioner Jim Long: "Yesterday's news that Jim Long passed away was very saddening to our family. I had the opportunity to work with Jim on several occasions, and was always delighted when our paths crossed. His service to the state of North Carolina as the Insurance Commissioner was exemplary, and the whole state has benefited from his work. Brooke and I extend our heartfelt condolences and prayers to his wife Peg, and the rest of Jim's family."
01.28.2009	01.28.09 Burr Statement on Economic Stimulus Legislation U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement on the proposed stimulus package currently being considered by Congress: "Our economy is currently facing enormous challenges. People and employers are still having a difficult time getting credit -- credit that allows them to make large purchases, buy equipment, invest for the future, and fund their daily business operations. As a result, businesses are struggling to stay afloat, workers are being laid off, and families are bearing the brunt of the economic storm. "President Obama and Congress are currently working on a stimulus bill in the hopes of jumpstarting our economy. The legislation currently being debated in Congress would spend almost a trillion dollars of borrowed money on projects and programsthat are unlikely to produce any real broad-based stimulus or create jobs that will still be here two years from now. This spending would be on top of the $1.2 trillion budget shortfall that the federal government is already projected to have in this year alone. If the bill the Democrats have proposed in the Senate does not change drastically, then I will not be able to support it. "Instead, I believe our first priority should be to help stabilize the housing crisis, which was the spark of this economic downturn. By guaranteeing low-interest, fixed mortgage rates, we can help homeowners stay in their homes and entice prospective home buyers to get off the sidelines. This would get to the root cause of what's harming our economy and light the path toward recovery. At the same time, we should let taxpayers be the drivers of economic growth by allowing them to keep more of their hard-earned money through lower income tax rates. "If the president and Congress want to stimulate the economy, we better get it right. If we don't, we will not only prolong this economic recession, but Americans for generations will also be faced with either massive tax increases or severe cuts in federal programs to pay off the enormous debt we have accumulated."
01.23.2009	01.23.09 Burr Statement on Geithner Nomination as Treasury Secretary Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (NC) issued the following statement on President Obama's nomination of Tim Geithner to serve as U.S. Secretary of the Treasury: "I think the President should be given the benefit of the doubt in selecting the executive leadership of his Administration, and I've been pleased with many of his nominations. In weighing a nominee, the most important questions I ask is if he or she is qualified to effectively lead an executive department and whether the nominee possesses the judgment necessary to manage and spend taxpayer money wisely and in an open and transparent manner. "As I asked these questions, I came to the conclusion that Mr. Geithner does not measure up. With the entire banking system collapsing, Mr. Geithner served as the head of the most important and powerful Reserve Bank in the nation. During his tenure at the New York Federal Reserve, Mr. Geithner was a leading participant in many late-night, closed-door deals made between major financial institutions and the federal government. I have particular concern with the ill-conceived proposed merger between Citigroup and Wachovia. It is now clear, as Citigroup is on the verge of break up, that it was in major financial trouble. "Many questions remain about the decision-making process and the judgment of government participants, including Mr. Geithner and the New York Federal Reserve. So far, Mr. Geithner's response to the Finance Committee on this particular issue raises more questions than it answers. Additionally, I have concerns about the unanswered questions concerning Mr. Geithner's taxes and his now being asked to head the Treasury Department and oversee the IRS. For these reasons, I cannot support Mr. Geithner's nomination as Secretary of the Treasury."
01.22.2009	01.22.09 Burr Announces Committee Assignments for 111th Congress Multiple committee assignments touch on many issues impacting North Carolina families Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) announced his committee assignments for the 111th Congress. Allowing him to focus on many of the important issues facing North Carolinians, Senator Burr was re-elected to serve in his role as Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs and will also continue to serve on the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP), and the Select Committee on Intelligence. Along with these positions, Senator Burr has also been assigned to the Committee on Armed Services. This new assignment will give Senator Burr additional opportunities to work directly with North Carolina's military communities with oversight over military research, development, and operations. Additionally, last week, Senator Burr was asked to serve as Chief Deputy Whip. In this role, Burr is responsible for helping to build support for the Republican legislative agenda and help communicate Republican solutions to the challenges facing our nation. "It is an honor to be asked to serve on these committees, and I am looking forward to working more with our military communities through the Armed Services Committee," Burr said. "These committees oversee many important issues, from improving health care and education to making sure we take care of our veterans when they return home from war. I am looking forward to finding solutions to the many problems we face, and I look forward to using my newest committee assignment to benefit military families in North Carolina and across the country." The Armed Services Committee is responsible for oversight over the Department of Defense, which includes the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force, as well as military research and development and national security aspects of nuclear energy. The committee oversees the annual military budget, which is close to $490 billion and includes installations, facilities and equipment around the world that support the over 2.3 million active-duty military personnel and over 700,000 civilians. North Carolina is home to seven military installations and has the fourth largest active-duty military and reserve population in the country. In 2007, military activities accounted for $23.4 billion, or 7 percent, of North Carolina's GDP. Currently, there are 101 Army Guard locations and 3 Air Guard locations in the state. It is projected that 49,000 new jobs will be created in North Carolina by 2013 as a result of increased military activity. As Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, a position he has held since 2007, Senator Burr leads the Republican Members of the committee with oversight over the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA). VA is the second-largest agency in government with an annual budget of $96.9 billion and is responsible for the care of our nation's 23.4 million veterans, with nearly 774,000 veterans living in North Carolina. VA currently operates 153 Medical Centers, 745 Community-Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs), 225 VA Veterans Centers, and over 125 cemeteries around the world. In North Carolina, the VA operates major medical centers in Asheville, Durham, Fayetteville, and Salisbury. The VA also operates CBOCs in Charlotte, Hickory, Franklin, Hamlet, Greenville, Raleigh, Morehead City, Wilmington, and Jacksonville and an outpatient clinic in Winston-Salem. Outpatient clinics in Winston-Salem and Charlotte have been authorized to expand their services so that veterans do not have to travel so far for routine care. The VA also recently announced that they are opening new facilities in Edenton-Elizabeth City and Goldsboro in 2010 and clinics in Lumberton and Rutherfordton are scheduled to open this year. The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources has jurisdiction over energy and energy development, the National Park System, the National Trails System, the Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and public lands. This committee has broad oversight over important issues like the development of a National Energy Policy, with responsibilities for all energy issues including oil and natural gas regulation and production (including the outer-continental shelf), nuclear energy research and facility regulation and construction, coal production and distribution, synthetic fuels research and development, and commercialization of new technologies including solar energy. The National Park System has an annual budget of over $2 billion and is responsible for over 84.6 million acres of land including 58 National Parks, 24 National Battlefields, Battlefield Parks, Battlefield Sites and Military Parks, 74 National Monuments and 10 National Seashores. North Carolina is home to twelve national parks, trails, battlefields, and historic sites totaling more than 394,000 acres, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the Cape Hatteras National Seashore, and the Cape Lookout National Seashore. The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) has jurisdiction over a broad range of issues such as education, labor, health care, and public health. Issues that are expected to come before the committee in the 111th Congress include health care reform, improving our nation's high school graduation rates, and food safety legislation. Senator Burr has served on the HELP Committee since he took office in the Senate in 2005. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence was created to oversee the intelligence activities and programs conducted by the U.S. government and make sure activities conducted by intelligence agencies are legal, effective, and appropriate. The various intelligence agencies report to the committee and provide its members with the information necessary for Congress to make informed decisions affecting the security of the country.
01.16.2009	01.16.09 Burr Announces Over $52 Million to Address Impact of Foreclosed Properties Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr announced that the State of North Carolina has been awarded $52,303,004 by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as part of their Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP). These funds will be used to address the negative impact of abandoned and foreclosed properties on communities across the state. "I am very happy that our state is the recipient of these funds," Burr said. "By limiting the impact foreclosed properties have on housing values, we are taking a step to put our real estate market back on track and mitigating the impact of the mortgage crisis that has affected so many communities across our state." Part of HUD's Community Development Block Grant program, NSP was appropriated $3.92 billion by Congress and allocated funds to 309 grantees nationwide. North Carolina may use this grant to assist individuals in purchasing foreclosed homes, acquiring and rehabilitating abandoned homes, establishing land banks for foreclosed homes, demolition of blighted properties, or redevelopment of vacant or demolished structures. All NSP funds are required to benefit individuals or families at or below 120 percent of area median income (AMI) and at least 25 percent must be targeted at those living below 50 percent of AMI. Funds awarded under this grant must be used within 18 months.
01.14.2009	01.14.09 Burr Praises Nomination of General Shinseki Calls for Shinseki’s confirmation as Secretary of Veterans Affairs Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, lauded the nomination of General Eric Shinseki, President-elect Obama's choice to serve as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. General Shinseki appeared before the committee today and answered questions about his planned priorities as head of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). "I have met with General Shinseki and have reviewed his extensive credentials. I believe it is clear that he has the experience and leadership skills needed to serve in this very important and challenging role," Burr said. General Shinseki, a highly decorated veteran, served two tours in Vietnam and received two Purple Hearts for his wounds suffered in combat service there. He had a distinguished 38-year career in the Army, reaching the rank of general, and ultimately served as the Army's 34th Chief of Staff. He is a 1965 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and he continued his studies at Duke University, where he received his Masters Degree. Later he studied at the United States Army Command and General Staff College and at the National War College. When confirmed, General Shinseki will face many challenges in his role as Secretary of Veterans Affairs, such as making sure that servicemembers who leave the military are quickly and effectively provided with benefits and services to ensure that they experience a seamless transition back to civilian life. There are many additional challenges, such as ensuring that veterans have access to quality health care and making sure that the implementation of the new 21st century GI Bill goes smoothly so that veterans will get their earned education benefits on time.
01.14.2009	01.14.09 Burr Named Chief Deputy Whip U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) was named by Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Senate Republican Whip, to serve as Chief Deputy Whip in the 111th Congress. The announcement was made by Senator Kyl earlier today. "I couldn't be more enthusiastic about the whip team I've assembled," Kyl said. "Not only do the members represent the diversity within the Republican Conference, but each brings critical skills that will help our leadership develop the successful strategies needed for the session ahead. I'm also excited to put Senator Burr's outstanding leadership skills to work as Chief Deputy Whip." "I am honored that Senator Kyl has asked me to serve as Chief Deputy Whip, and I look forward to working with him. From health care, to education, to getting our economy back on the right track, the votes in the Senate touch on so many important topics, and I look forward to helping articulate our caucus' solutions to the many issues we face," Burr said. Along with the Chief Deputy Whip, Senator Kyl has appointed six Senators to serve as Deputy Whips to represent every region of the country. The additional Senators named today are: Senator Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) Senator Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) Senator John Barrasso (R-Wyoming) Senator David Vitter (R-Louisiana)
01.09.2009	01.09.09 Burr Statement on Illinois Supreme Court Ruling U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement in response to today's Illinois Supreme Court ruling that the Illinois Secretary of State does not have to sign the certificate appointing Roland Burris to the U.S. Senate: "Given today's decision by the Illinois Supreme Court, Roland Burris should be seated as a United States Senator as expeditiously as possible." # # #
12.10.2008	12.10.08 Burr Unveils Kids’ Passport for National Parks Book aimed at increasing interest in National Parks Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) along with Mary Bomar, Director of the National Park Service (NPS), introduced a new book titled Kids' Passport to Your National Parks Companion. The book was introduced at an event in front of 110 schoolchildren at John Eaton Elementary School in Washington, D.C. The purpose of the book is to promote an active interest in America's history and natural environment by encouraging children to visit the country's national parks. "This passport offers a hands-on gateway to many of America's most beautiful natural treasures, and I'm sure our children will have a lot of fun filling in the blank pages," Burr said. "I hope this idea will excite a whole generation of young Americans about the beauty and history of our nation. Too often today, America's youth find their entertainment on television and computers, and hopefully this passport book will help kids realize all the fun there is to be had outdoors." At the unveiling ceremony this morning, Director Bomar explained to the school children how to use their copies of the passport and praised Senator Burr for his work in making it become a reality. Burr spearheaded the idea for the Kids' Passport to Your National Parks Companion to combat children's increasing disconnection from America's natural environment. Similar to the existing NPS Passport Program, the book encourages schoolchildren to experience the beauty and history of their country by visiting its 391 National Parks, monuments, battlefields, and historic places. Upon visiting a park, children can have their passport stamped and write down memories and notes from their visit. At the event, Burr addressed the students, dividing them into two groups to participate in a mock legislative session. After explaining how a bill becomes law, he challenged the students to work together to pass a bill that would provide for free ice cream in school cafeterias once a week. Working with the children, he taught them how to amend the bill, vote on it, and send it to the President for a signature. After their hands on civics lesson, Burr enlisted the help of several students to assist him and Director Bomar in unveiling a poster sized-photograph of the Kids' Passport to Your National Parks Companion. Following the event, the students were encouraged to get their complementary copies of the book stamped by NPS Rangers and got autographs and pictures with Senator Burr and Director Bomar. "When your parents talk about taking a vacation or a trip to visit family members, look through this book to see what parks are close to where you will be traveling and encourage your parents to take you there," Burr said to the students. "There is a lot more fun to be had in national parks than there is on television." Marketed at children ages 7-11, the book will be available for purchase through Eastern National, a non-profit association whose proceeds benefit NPS. It will be sold at most national park sites nationwide.
12.10.2008	12.10.08 Burr Praises Historic Preservation Grant to Cupola House in Edenton U.S. Senator Richard Burr praised the announcement that the Cupola House in Edenton, North Carolina, has been awarded a $115,000 Save America's Treasures grant on behalf of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities (PCAH) and the National Park Service (NPS) in collaboration with the National Endowment of the Arts (NEA), National Endowment for Humanities (NEH), and the Institute of Museum and Library Science (IMLS). The purpose of Save America's Treasures grants is to preserve sites of cultural and historic significance associated with ideas, events, and individuals that shaped our national history. "I am very pleased to congratulate the Cupola House for being awarded these funds," Burr said. "This is a highly competitive grant, and the Cupola House should be proud of the work they did to secure these funds. This money will help preserve a location that has historic and cultural importance, to North Carolina and the entire United States." Built in 1758 and overlooking the bay at 408 South Broad Street in Edenton, the Cupola House is a National Historic Landmark. It is known for its historic and architectural importance, and is considered the finest example of Jacobean design in the South. Funds secured through the Save America's Treasures grant will be used to help repair the roof, brick chimneys, fireboxes, and foundation. The grant received by the Cupola House represents one of 31 grants chosen from 340 applicants. Since 1999, 454 competitive grants have been given out through the Save America's Treasures program to preserve historically important buildings, art, structures, artifacts, and historic places.
12.05.2008	12.05.08 Burr Announces Opening of New VA Clinics in NC Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr applauded the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for expanding the access to care for North Carolina veterans with the announcement of two new outpatient clinics in North Carolina. One clinic will be established in Goldsboro and the other in the Edenton-Elizabeth City area. This week, the VA announced a total of 31 new clinics would be opened nationwide. "Giving our veterans expanded access to world-class health care is one of our most important responsibilities," Burr said. "As more and more veterans move to North Carolina and call it home, we have a growing need for clinics like the two announced this week. I look forward to working with the VA in finding more areas in our state that can use new facilities and help bring needed care to all our veterans." The new outpatient clinics in Goldsboro and Edenton-Elizabeth City will be operational by 2010. VA currently has four hospitals, 10 community-based outpatient clinics and five rehabilitation counseling centers in North Carolina. In addition to the clinics opening in 2010, two others will open next year in Lumberton and Rutherfordton. The VA currently operates 153 hospitals and 750 community-based clinics nationwide.
11.26.2008	11.26.08 Burr Announces Economic Development Grant to Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the region served by the Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments has been awarded an economic development grant in the amount of $159,000 by the U.S. Department of Commerce. This will benefit Edgecombe, Halifax, Nash, Northhampton, and Wilson counties. "I am proud to announce these funds that have been secured by the Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments. This money will help them develop a strategic economic roadmap for the region. The Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments should be pleased with the work they have done to secure this grant," Burr said. This grant will be used to support development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the counties in the district overseen by the Upper Coastal Plain Council of Governments. This process is designed to bring together representatives from the private sector, as well as government officials to create a strategy to diversify and strengthen the local economy.
11.26.2008	11.26.08 Burr Announces Economic Development Grant to Neuse River Council of Governments U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the region served by the Neuse River Council of Governments has been awarded an economic development grant in the amount of $159,000 by the U.S. Department of Commerce. This will benefit Carteret, Craven, Duplin, Greene, Jones, Lenoir, Onslow, Pamlico, and Wayne counties. "These funds will go a long way toward helping counties in Eastern North Carolina develop a forward thinking economic plan for the region. The Neuse River Council of Governments should be proud of the work they have done to secure this grant, which will benefit the citizens of these counties immensely," Burr said. This grant will be used to support development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the counties in the district overseen by the Neuse River Council of Governments. This process is designed to bring together representatives from the private sector, as well as government officials to create a strategy to diversify and strengthen the local economy.
11.26.2008	11.26.08 Burr Announces Grants to Local North Carolina Fire Departments and Response Organizations U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,167,968 in Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) has been awarded to fire departments across North Carolina on behalf of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These funds are designated to assist the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations by funding vehicles and training they need to do their jobs safely and efficiently. "These funds will help to protect North Carolina's firefighters and emergency responders and will enable them to maximize their ability to respond to emergencies and protect the citizens of our state," Burr said. "These grants will enable communities across North Carolina to afford critical training and life-saving equipment, and as a result will help protect the lives of the men and women who serve our communities on a daily basis." Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Fiscal Year 2008 AFG awards will ultimately provide about $500 million to fire departments and emergency responders nationwide. Below is a list of the North Carolina recipients of AFG awards: Gaston Rescue in Gaston, NC Maury Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Association, Inc. in Maury, NC Trenton Volunteer Fire Department in Trenton, NC Hawtree Volunteer Fire Department in Wise, NC Halls Volunteer Fire Department in Clinton, NC Summerville Fire and Rescue, Inc. in Lillington, NC White Level Fire Department in Louisburg, NC East Side Fire Department in Asheboro, NC Snow Camp Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. in Snow Camp, NC Grover Rural Volunteer Fire Department in Grover, NC Number Seven Township Volunteer Fire Department in Lattimore, NC Boger City Volunteer Fire Department in Lincolnton, NC Spring Creek Volunteer Fire Department in Hot Springs, NC Rosman Fire Rescue, Inc. in Rosman, NC Balsam-Willets-Ochre Hill Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. in Sylva, NC North Eastern Alamance Fire Department in Burlington, NC Leaksville Fire Department in Eden, NC Shiloh Volunteer Fire Department in Stoneville, NC Wake-New Hope Fire Department, Inc. in Wendell, NC
11.26.2008	11.26.08 Burr Announces Grants to Additional North Carolina Fire Departments U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that an additional $503,130 in Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) has been awarded to six North Carolina fire departments on behalf of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These funds are in addition to the $1,167,968 that was awarded last week to 19 other fire and rescue units across the state. These grants are designated to assist the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations by funding vehicles and training they need to do their jobs safely and efficiently. "These funds will help to protect North Carolina's firefighters and emergency responders and will enable them to maximize their ability to respond to emergencies and protect the citizens of our state," Burr said. "These grants will enable communities across North Carolina to afford critical training and life-saving equipment, and as a result will help protect the lives of the men and women who serve our communities on a daily basis." Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Fiscal Year 2008 AFG awards will ultimately provide about $500 million to fire departments and emergency responders nationwide. Below is a list of the most recent North Carolina recipients of AFG awards: Middlesex Volunteer Fire Department in Middlesex, NC C.C. Camp Volunteer Fire Department in Elkin, NC Guil-Rand Fire Department in Archdale, NC Miller Ferry Fire Department in Salisbury, NC Reynolds Fire Department in Asheville, NC Saluda Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue, Inc. in Saluda, NC
11.26.2008	11.26.08 Burr Announces Economic Development Grant to Land of Sky Regional Council U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the region served by the Land of Sky Regional Council has been awarded an economic development grant in the amount of $159,000 by the U.S. Department of Commerce. This will benefit Buncombe, Henderson, Madison, and Transylvania counties. "The Land of Sky Regional Council should be proud of their work in securing this grant, which will help them move forward with an economic plan for the region. This grant money will benefit the local economy and the citizens of the region," Burr said. This grant will be used to support development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the counties in the district overseen by the Land of Sky Regional Council. This process is designed to bring together representatives from the private sector, as well as government officials to create a strategy to diversify and strengthen the local economy.
11.26.2008	11.26.08 Burr Applauds Iredell-Statesville Schools for Winning Prestigious Baldrige Award Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr applauded Iredell-Statesville Schools for being awarded the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award, the nation's highest Presidential honor for organizational innovation and performance excellence. Iredell-Statesville Schools was one of three recipients of the Baldrige Award this year out of a pool of 85 applicants. The Baldrige program is managed by the U.S. Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). "I am very proud of Iredell-Statesville Schools for winning this award and for all the hard work the teachers, faculty, and students put forth to qualify them for this recognition," Burr said. "This is an extremely competitive award, and it speaks very highly of Iredell-Statesville Schools that they were chosen as a recipient. I am particularly proud of the work they have done to increase graduation rates. Iredell-Statesville Schools have truly set a great example for school systems across the country to follow." With a workforce of 3,416 people and a budget of $16 million, Iredell-Statesville Schools offers a variety of courses and educational programs to meet student needs, including heterogeneously grouped classrooms, two at-risk/behavior schools, and virtual and early college settings. The system also offers dual enrollment courses in partnership with a local community college and short-term alternative site placement programs. From 2002 to 2008, student achievement rose from 55th to 9th out of North Carolina's more than 100 school districts, and their total average SAT score of 1056 in 2008 was better than the national average of 1017. Additionally, cohort graduation rates (the percentage of ninth graders who graduated from high school four years later) have steadily increased from approximately 61 percent in 2002-2003 to 81 percent in 2007-2008. Named after Malcolm Baldrige, the 26th Secretary of Commerce, the Baldrige Award was established by Congress in 1987 to enhance the competitiveness and performance of U.S. businesses. Congress expanded the program in 1999 to include education and health care organizations, and again in 2007 to include nonprofit organizations. The award promotes excellence in organizational performance, recognizes the achievements and results of U.S. organizations, and publicizes successful performance strategies. Since 1988, 75 organizations have received Baldrige Awards.
11.19.2008	11.19.08 Burr Welcomes Increased Veterans Travel Reimbursement Rates Reimbursement rates increase by 45% Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) this afternoon informed veterans that as of today, November 17, 2008, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has increased its Beneficiary Travel program mileage reimbursement for travel related to health care and disability compensation examinations. Previously set at 28.5 cents per mile, the beneficiary travel mileage reimbursement has been increased to 41.5 cents per mile. "Every North Carolinian, and every American, owes a debt of gratitude to our nation's veterans," Burr said. "One way we express our appreciation for the sacrifices of our veterans is by providing them high quality, accessible health care. By taking this common-sense step to increase the rate of reimbursement for qualified veterans traveling to health care centers, we are closer to ensuring that America's veterans receive the quality of care they have earned." The increase in the mileage reimburse rate follows on the heels of legislation enacted into law in October that lowered the deductible veterans must pay before they could be reimbursed for travel. Importantly, the law also prohibits a further increase in the deductible whenever VA may, in the future, raise the mileage reimbursement rate again. To read the text of the VA's decision to increase mileage reimbursement, follow this link: http://www.federalregister.gov/OFRUpload/OFRData/2008-27339_PI.pdf
11.06.2008	11.06.08 Burr Reminds Veterans and Families of Free Entry to National Parks on Veterans Day U.S. Senator Richard Burr today urged veterans to take advantage of the National Park Service's (NPS) fee-free day. On Veterans Day, November 11, 2008, all members of the U.S. armed forces, military veterans, and their families will be admitted to National Parks and public lands managed by the Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior free of charge. "I am pleased that the National Park Service has offered this opportunity to our nation's servicemembers, veterans, and their families. Some of America's most beautiful and cultural places are protected and preserved by the National Park Service. Offering this opportunity to the men and women who have sacrificed on our behalf is a small token of our appreciation for their service," Burr said. The National Park System comprises 391 areas covering more than 84 million acres. These areas include national parks, monuments, national battlefields and military parks, historical sites, lakeshores and seashores, recreation areas, rivers and trails, and the White House, including ten national parks in North Carolina. In 2006, over 272.6 million people visited America's National Parks. National Parks in North Carolina include: Appalachian National Scenic Trail Blue Ridge Parkway Cape Hatteras National Seashore Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site Fort Raleigh National Historic Site Great Smoky Mountains National Park Guilford Courthouse National Military Park Moores Creek National Battlefield Wright Brothers National Memorial For more information and a full list of all sites in North Carolina maintained by the NPS, please visit www.nps.gov.
11.06.2008	11.06.08 Burr Announces $50 Million in Tax Credits Awarded to Durham Based Self-Help Ventures Fund U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the Center for Community Self-Help, located in Durham, NC, has been awarded $50,000,000 in tax credits for its Self-Help Ventures Fund. This tax credit was provided by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program. "By receiving this tax credit, the Self-Help Ventures Fund will have tremendous help in furthering their work providing financing and advocacy for low-income borrowers. This is a highly competitive process, and the Center for Community Self-Help should feel proud of the work they've done to secure these funds," Burr said. Self-Help Ventures Fund will use its allocation of NMTCs to expand its commercial real estate and community facilities financing and its geographic reach. The fund provides senior debt through loans to eligible real estate projects, small businesses, and community facility operators. The NMTC allocation will enable Self-Help Ventures Fund to continue offering favorable loan rates and terms to projects in distressed communities, and enable it to finance much larger commercial real estate projects, including retail centers, office buildings and mixed use projects; as well as charter schools and other community facilities. In addition to providing assistance to North Carolina borrowers, Self-Help Ventures Fund also benefits communities in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Washington, DC.
11.06.2008	11.06.08 Burr Praises Durham VA Medical Center for Receiving Prestigious Circle of Excellence Award U.S. Senator Richard Burr today congratulated the Durham VA Medical Center (Durham VAMC) on their selection as recipient of the Circle of Excellence award, given by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), in recognition of their service and continued commitment to excellence. "Receiving the Circle of Excellence award is an extremely prestigious honor, and I am proud to congratulate the staff at the Durham VA Medical Center for consistently providing high quality care to our nation's veterans," Burr said. The Durham VAMC is a 274 bed medical and surgical tertiary care facility that serves 26 counties in central and eastern North Carolina. It provides diagnostic and therapeutic services in medicine, surgery, neurology, psychiatry, and nursing home care. The facility is affiliated with Duke University School of Medicine, the University of North Carolina School of Dentistry, and the Brody School of Medicine at East Carolina University. The Durham VAMC provides training for approximately 1,700 students annually. The Durham VAMC was also recognized as the Secretary's Robert Carey Category Winner in 2004 and 2005, and Trophy Winner in 2007. The Circle of Excellence (COE) award promotes and recognizes high performance by recent VA Trophy Award winning organizations. The award recognizes high levels of achievement with public recognition and a large plaque indicating performance excellence.
10.10.2008	10.10.08 Veterans’ Bills Signed Into Law Provisions in the new law include aid to fight homelessness and improvements to Veterans’ benefits Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), the Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, welcomed President Bush's signing of S. 2162, the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008 and S. 3023, the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008. These bills were signed into law by the president earlier today. "The president's signature today on these bills will help give our veterans the tools and resources they need to live full and productive lives when they return home, and that always should be our top priority for those men and women who served," Burr said. S. 2162, the Veterans' Mental Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008, has several provisions authored by Senator Burr, including the provision of supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they are less likely to fall into homelessness. Veterans will now have greater access to housing assistance, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. The new law also includes coordinated treatment for veterans suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders. S. 3023, the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008, will improve many benefits programs that our veterans now enjoy, including provisions that were introduced by Senator Burr that touches on employment, education, vocational rehabilitation, and disability compensation. This new law will require that the head of each federal executive agency provide training for their human resources personnel on the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, to ensure that veterans are able to resume their Federal civilian jobs when they return from service with no delays or frustrations. It also doubles the time from 10 to 20 years for spouses of severely disabled veterans to be able to receive VA education assistance, giving these spouses more time to focus on caring for their injured loved ones. Additionally, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will be required to provide Congress with a plan for updating its current disability rating schedule, which was developed in the early 1900's and is riddled with outdated criteria.
10.09.2008	10.09.08 Burr Applauds Signing Of Community Health Centers Renewal Act Law will improve health care access for rural North Carolinians U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today applauded the President's signing of H.R. 1343, the Health Centers Renewal Act of 2008. The act will allow greater access to quality health care in rural and underserved areas by reauthorizing the Community Health Center program, the Rural Health Care Services Outreach grant programs, the National Health Service Corps and primary dental health workforce programs. This new law will also make it easier for community health center employees to volunteer to respond to public health emergencies, such as a hurricane or flu pandemic. The bill, which Senator Burr cosponsored, was signed by President Bush yesterday. "Community health care centers provide excellent care for people with and without health insurance, and I applaud the Congress and the President for passing this legislation and signing it into law," Burr said. "All Americans should have access to high quality and affordable health care, and community health centers provide valuable health services to thousands of Medicaid, Medicare, and uninsured patients every year in North Carolina." In North Carolina, community health centers serve over 380,000 patients and facilitate over 1.2 million patient visits per year. According to the non-partisan North Carolina Community Health Center Association, they include over 120 clinical service sites with over 150 physicians, 91 nurse practitioners or physician assistants and 358 nurses and other medical personnel in North Carolina alone. In addition, the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) improves access to health care by placing more than 4,000 health professionals in communities across the country that face the largest shortage of providers. Since 1972, more than 27,000 health professionals have served with the NHSC and many of these providers have remained in underserved communities after their initial commitments. "We know oral health is an essential part of general health, and many communities lack access to good dental care. The dental health workforce programs included in this legislation will help states implement innovative programs to address the dental workforce needs in underserved communities," Burr added.
10.09.2008	10.09.08 Burr, Murray Poison Control Center Bill Becomes Law President Bush signs legislation that reauthorizes poison control center national toll-free number U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) applauded President Bush's signing of S. 2932, The Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008, into law. This law, which Senator Burr sponsored with Senator Patty Murray (D-Washington), extends the authorization for the Poison Control Center grant program, the poison center national toll-free number, and nation-wide media campaign programs related to poison control. "I am pleased that the president has signed this important bill into law," Burr said. "North Carolinians will now continue to benefit from the expert assistance provided by emergency resources like the Carolinas Poison Center, and all Americans can continue to rely on poison centers when they are in need." "Poison centers are a lifeline for anxious parents in an emergency," Senator Murray said. "I'm very pleased that the President has signed this bill into law so that we can ensure that millions of Americans will still be able to rely on this vital resource." The poison center national toll-free number, nation-wide media campaign, and state grant program provide assistance for the national network of poison control centers, which monitor and detect public health emergencies. Currently, there are 61 poison control centers (PCCs) nationwide including the Carolinas Poison Center in North Carolina. These centers facilitate emergency telephone services that are operated 24 hours a day by specialists including registered nurses and pharmacists who are available to provide quick advice and treatment for victims of poisoning. Assistance is also provided for healthcare professionals. In North Carolina, Carolinas Poisons Center facilitates community outreach and school programs to help spread awareness of the dangers of unintentional poisoning and provide educational materials for students and kids. The toll-free nationwide poison control hotline number is 1-800-222-1222.
10.03.2008	10.03.08 Burr Announces Grant to Develop Rapid Response Teams Money will increase response capability to food-borne hazards U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that North Carolina has been awarded a grant in the amount of $1.5 million over 3 years on behalf of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These funds will be used to set up Rapid Response Teams (RRT) to allow states to more promptly react to potential threats to our food supply. "As we have seen recently, our nation is in need of increased food safety measures to ensure that public health in America is not jeopardized by bad food. This grant will help provide North Carolina with the resources it needs to properly and effectively respond to food-borne illness outbreaks in the future," Burr said. The implementation of RRTs plays an integral role in the FDA's new Food Protection Plan. The purpose of the Food Protection Plan is to address both intentional and unintentional food contamination in order to protect consumers. RRTs implement a crisis management system to respond to all food hazard incidents in the farm-to-table continuum of food production and delivery. The money will go towards establishing the response team, conducting a program assessment, purchasing additional equipment and supplies, and training and funding personnel. The formation of RRTs will also aid in communication both amongst response groups and between the FDA and consumers in the event of a food-borne outbreak.
10.03.2008	10.03.08 President Signs Bill to Reduce Infant Mortality Burr, Brown bill extends Healthy Start program Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded President Bush for signing S. 1760, the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2007, into law The legislation was introduced by Senator Burr and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) in July of 2007. The bill aims to reduce infant mortality in the United States by extending the successful Healthy Start program which addresses the risk factors that lead to low birth weight and other health complications in babies and mothers. The initiative began in 1991 and this bipartisan legislation would extend the program through 2013. "I am very glad we have taken this important step to continue programs that help save lives and ensure our children are healthy," Burr said. "This law will ensure that Healthy Start programs in North Carolina will continue to reduce infant mortality rates, premature births, and low birth weight." North Carolina has the tenth highest infant mortality rate in the country; 8.35 out of every 1,000 babies born in the state do not live to be one year old. The national average is 6.9 deaths per 1,000 births. In 1998, only 42% of women in the Healthy Start program areas received prenatal care. In 2003, that number reached 72%.
10.02.2008	10.02.08 Burr Statement on Senate Vote on Emergency Economic Stabilization Act U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) tonight issued the following statement on the Senate vote on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (Dodd Amendment to H.R. 1424): "Like many North Carolinians, I am very concerned and angry about the circumstances that have brought our country's economy to the brink and that now necessitate the Congress to act. We are facing one of the most significant economic challenges we have ever confronted, one that threatens the financial security of each and every one of us, whether you have a retirement savings account or a pension, own a home, want to buy a home or a car, or are trying to save or borrow for college. While many believe that this action is a bailout of Wall Street, the fundamental reason the Senate is compelled to act today is to stop an economic collapse of Main Street." "As a fiscal conservative, I consider this vote a sad day in our nation's history. But as a public servant, and as an elected representative of North Carolina, I do not believe I can sit by and let this country fall into the worst economic state that it has ever faced. While the need for this legislation is regrettable, I am heartened that the plan before the Senate includes very important protections for taxpayers, limits on executive compensation for Wall Street, and strong measures to ensure proper oversight and accountability." To read Senator Burr's statement submitted to the Congressional Record, please click here.
10.01.2008	10.01.08 Burr Applauds Senate for Passing Bill Honoring WWII Veterans Bill honors organization for helping vets visit WWII Memorial U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded his colleagues in the Senate for passing S.Res. 695, a resolution he cosponsored along with Senator Dole (R-NC) to commend the Honor Flight Network for its efforts to make it possible for World War II veterans to visit the World War II Memorial in Washington, DC. "America's World War II veterans served our country with honor and they deserve the opportunity to see the national memorial that has been erected in Washington in memory of their service," Burr said. "This resolution recognizes Honor Flight for providing that opportunity to veterans who may not have been able to travel to Washington to see the World War II Memorial otherwise. The memorial represents a token of our gratitude to our nation's servicemembers and serves as a constant reminder of the heroism and sacrifice of our World War II veterans." Honor Flight was created to honor America's veterans by flying them free of charge to Washington, DC, to visit the national memorials created in their honor. Honor Flight's first trip was in May 2005 and transported 12 World War II veterans on six small planes. In 2006, Honor Flight transitioned to commercial airline carriers to accommodate the increasing number of veterans interested in participating in the program. Since then, Honor Flight has partnered with HonorAir in Hendersonville, North Carolina and Hero Flight in Provo, Utah to form the Honor Flight Network which currently operates in communities in 31 states. Close to 15,000 veterans have visited the World War II Memorial thanks to the Honor Flight Network. The resolution also honors Jeff Miller of Hendersonville, North Carolina who helped organize and obtain funding to fly over three hundred World War II veterans to Washington to visit the Memorial. Mr. Miller was also instrumental in reaching out to other people across the country to enlist their help in this cause.
09.29.2008	09.29.08 Burr Statement on the Citigroup Acquisition of Wachovia Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement regarding the announcement of Citigroup's acquisition of Wachovia: "Today's news of Citigroup's acquisition of Wachovia might be unsettling to many in North Carolina. While these are difficult times in our economy, it is important to remember that this move provides for the protection of accounts and the soundness of savings for Wachovia's customers. FDIC has said that all services for customers should continue uninterrupted." "Today's news once again shows that our financial markets are currently facing tremendous uncertainty, and it is an absolute necessity to move quickly to bring some stability to the crisis."
09.28.2008	09.28.08 Burr Applauds Passage of Veterans’ Mental Health Bill Burr provision in bill will help veterans avoid homelessness U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded the Senate passage of S. 2162, The Veterans Mental Health Improvements Act of 2008. The legislation includes a provision by Senator Burr to assist veterans at risk of homelessness by providing them with supportive services. "Our veterans served our country with honor and they should not be forgotten when they return home," Burr said. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. This legislation will help those on the verge of being homeless by getting them help from the community. It is much easier to prevent homelessness than it is to bring someone out of it." Burr's provision would provide supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. It would provide veterans with greater access to housing assistance, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. North Carolina is home to over 770,000 veterans and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) estimates that over 40,000 North Carolina veterans live in poverty. The Veterans Mental Health Improvements Act of 2008 would also ensure veterans suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders receive quality, coordinated treatment for both conditions. It would expand the availability of treatment VA offers for substance abuse, including detoxification and stabilization services. In addition, the measure would increase the availability of residential and outpatient treatment services for veterans with mental illnesses. The legislation would also codify VA's new travel reimbursement rate for certain veterans who drive to their medical appointments at VA. The rate was increased in January from 11 cents to 28.5 cents a mile by VA Secretary James Peake. By law, the deductible veterans must pay also increased in January by a proportionate amount. The legislation would reduce the deductible back to the 2007 level.
09.28.2008	09.28.08 Burr Praises Passage of Veterans’ Benefits Bill Burr provisions for improvements in veterans’ benefits bill included U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded today's Senate passage of S. 3023, the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008. This bill would improve a wide variety of benefits programs for our veterans including employment, education, and updates to the disability rating schedule. "Our nation's veterans have bravely sacrificed in order to protect the freedoms we enjoy as Americans," Burr said. "This bill will go a long way to improve the lives of our Veterans by helping them receive the benefits and assistance they need." Several provisions in the bill were introduced by Senator Burr, including a provision that addresses the problem of returning service members not being entitled to resume their employment in the federal government when they return from active duty, which is a violation of the law established under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA). This provision would require that the head of each federal executive agency provide training for their human resources personnel on the rights, benefits, and obligations under USERRA in order to ensure that veterans are able to resume their employment when they return from service. The bill also included a provision that would extend from 10 to 20 years the time which spouses of severely disabled veterans are able to receive education assistance, allowing spouse members to focus on their first priority of caring for their injured loved ones while leaving them ample time to pursue their educational goals. Additionally, the bill includes a provision that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide Congress with a plan for updating its disability rating schedule to keep in closer step with modern medical advances and to provide Congress a list of actions the VA plans on taking and a timeline for implementation. The current rating schedule, which is the cornerstone of the VA claims process, was developed in the early 1900's and, as many studies and commissions have reported, is riddled with outdated criteria.
09.26.2008	09.26.08 Dole, Burr Propose Solutions to Help Alleviate, Prevent Gas Shortages U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today took additional steps to help alleviate and prevent gas shortages. In recent weeks, areas of North Carolina, particularly in the west, have been experiencing critical gas shortages, caused primarily by refinery disruptions associated with Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Dole and Burr introduced the Motor Fuel Supply and Distribution Improvement Act of 2008 that will end the proliferation of dozens of different fuel blends, which burdens refineries and results in increased costs to consumers. Additionally, Dole and Burr called on the Secretary of Energy to tap the International Energy Agency's emergency gasoline and diesel fuel supply, which would help alleviate the current supply constraints in the United States. "No question, we need a comprehensive energy policy, but right now in North Carolina, we just need more gasoline," said Dole on the Senate floor today. "My state faces a gas shortage of crisis proportions. We need to expand refining capacity and production so that even in the face of crisis situations, our fuel supply system continues to function and support American businesses and consumers." "The lack of comprehensive energy reform is hurting people all across America, but unfortunately North Carolinians living in the western part of our state are currently being hit particularly hard by a gas shortage. As a result of this shortage, businesses are closing, schools are canceling class, and people are unable to perform everyday tasks such as visiting the doctor and going to the grocery store. In order to ensure that this kind of crisis never happens again, Senator Dole and I have introduced legislation to simplify the process for getting affordable gasoline to markets across the nation. I hope Congress can work on a plan that will address all of our energy concerns, but in the meantime, we must ensure that Americans have access to gasoline so they can live their daily lives without interruption," said Burr.
09.26.2008	09.26.08 Burr Announces $1 Million Grant Awarded to Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians Money will be used for wastewater system improvements U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians are the recipients of a $1 million federal grant awarded by the Economic Development Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The funds will be used to help fund improvements to the wastewater system on the Eastern Band's reservation in Cherokee and Swain Counties. "By receiving this grant, the Eastern Band of the Cherokee will have tremendous help in improving their wastewater system to benefit residents and businesses. They should feel proud of the work they've done to secure these funds," Burr said. These funds will allow for the replacement and extension of sewer lines to accommodate the expansion of residential and business development on the reservation. The Economic Development Administration estimates that this project will create 140 jobs and will leverage $93.2 million in private investment.
09.26.2008	09.26.08 Burr Lauds Increased Benefits for Wounded Veterans President Bush signs legislation increasing rate of benefits U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today applauded President Bush's signing of S. 2617, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008, into law. Senator Burr was an original cosponsor of this law which will increase the rate of compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and for surviving family members of certain disabled veterans. "The men and women who have suffered service-related injuries while serving our nation deserve to be compensated at a rate that reflects the current cost-of-living," Burr said. "We owe our nation's veterans a huge debt of gratitude and one of my top priorities as Ranking Member is to ensure that they receive the assistance and care they have earned through their brave service." The Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to increase benefits by the same percentage as the cost-of-living (COLA) adjustment provided to Social Security recipients and VA pension beneficiaries. That increase is expected to be 2.8% and would result in an $857 million boost in benefits to veterans and their survivors in 2009. VA estimates that it will provide disability compensation to over 3 million veterans with service-connected disabilities in 2009. This bill will help those veterans keep up with the cost-of-living by increasing the benefits they receive as a result of their service to our nation. This increase will take effect on December 1, 2008.
09.26.2008	09.26.08 Burr, Murray Applaud Senate Passage of Poison Control Bill Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) applauded his colleagues in the Senate for passing S. 2932, the Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008, which he sponsored along with Senator Patty Murray (D-Washington). This bi-partisan legislation would continue support of the nation's poison control centers. By reauthorizing the poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program. "The expert assistance provided by poison centers like Carolinas Poison Center, is available to families and hospitals 24 hours a day and significantly reduces the number of emergency room visits and associated health care costs for poisonings," Burr said. "We must renew our commitment to the nation's poison centers so they can continue to be a resource in detecting and monitoring public health emergencies." "This is a major step toward ensuring that the millions of Americans who rely on the Poison Control network every year will continue to have emergency help just a phone call away," said Senator Murray. "The Poison Control network is literally a lifeline for anxious parents with little time to spare and nowhere else to turn. Passage of this bill means that parents around the country can breathe a sigh of relief knowing that we are committed to renewing this vital service that protects them and their families." The poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program provide assistance for the national network of poison control centers. There are currently 61 poison control centers (PCCs) nationwide, including the Carolinas Poison Center in North Carolina. The Carolinas Poison Center is an emergency telephone service that is operated 24 hours a day by specialists including registered nurses and pharmacists. These professionals provide advice and treatment for victims of poisoning and provide assistance for healthcare professionals as well. Additionally, Carolinas Poisons Center facilitates community outreach and school programs to help spread awareness of the dangers of unintentional poisoning and they provide educational materials. The toll-free nationwide poison control hotline number is 1-800-222-1222.
09.17.2008	09.17.08 Burr Praises Passage of Veterans’ Benefits Burr provisions for improvements in veterans’ benefits bill included U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded today's Senate passage of S. 3023, the Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2008. This bill would improve a wide variety of benefits programs for our veterans including employment, education, and updates to the disability rating schedule. "Our nation's veterans have bravely sacrificed in order to protect the freedoms we enjoy as Americans," Burr said. "This bill will go a long way to improve the lives of our Veterans by helping them receive the benefits and assistance they need. I hope our colleagues in the House will pass this bill without delay." Another provision included in the bill would extend from 10 to 20 years the time which spouses of severely disabled veterans are able to receive education assistance, allowing spouse members to focus on their first priority of caring for their injured loved ones while leaving them ample time to pursue their educational goals. Additionally, the bill includes a provision that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide Congress with a plan for updating its disability rating schedule to keep in closer step with modern medical advances and to provide Congress a list of actions the VA plans on taking and a timeline for implementation. The current rating schedule, which is the cornerstone of the VA claims process, was developed in the early 1900's and, as many studies and commissions have reported, is riddled with outdated criteria. Several provisions in the bill were introduced by Senator Burr, including a provision that addresses the problem of returning service members not being entitled to resume their employment in the federal government when they return from active duty, which is a violation of the law established under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA). This provision would require that the head of each federal executive agency provide training for their human resources personnel on the rights, benefits, and obligations under USERRA in order to ensure that veterans are able to resume their employment when they return from service.
08.05.2008	08.05.08 Burr Announces $1.4 Million Grant Awarded to Huntersville Money will be used for bridge construction U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the Town of Huntersville and the North Carolina Department of Transportation (DOT) are the recipients of a $1.4 million federal grant awarded by the Economic Development Administration. The funds will be used to help fund the construction of a bridge overpass into the North Mecklenburg Industrial Park. "By receiving this grant, the Town of Huntersville will have tremendous help in constructing a bridge overpass to benefit its residents. This is a highly competitive grant, and the Town of Huntersville should feel proud of the work they've done to secure these funds," Burr said. The construction of this bridge overpass will allow expansion of the North Mecklenburg Industrial Park and will increase jobs for the towns of Huntersville, Cornelius, and Davidson. The Economic Development Administration estimates that this project will create 179 jobs and will leverage $30 million in private investment.
08.01.2008	08.01.08 Burr, Clinton Bill Will Help Charitable Donations Reach Wounded Warriors Bill cuts red tape out of gift acceptance rules for wounded warriors Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Hillary Clinton (D-NY) introduced the Friends of Wounded Warriors Act of 2008. This legislation will make it easier for wounded warriors to receive charitable gifts by allowing Commanders of Wounded Warrior Battalions to accept and administer those gifts on behalf of the soldiers in their units. By streamlining the gift-acceptance process, it will allow for sick and wounded servicemembers to more quickly receive the charitable donations given to them, and not subject them to unnecessary hurdles. "The men and women of our nation's military have made tremendous sacrifices in order to protect the freedoms we enjoy as Americans, and this bill represents one small way we can say 'thank you'," Burr said. "Americans rightfully are appreciative of our men and women in uniform and there is no reason it should be difficult for them to show their support for our nation's defenders." "Our wounded warrior units are facing the extraordinary challenge of helping injured servicemembers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan recover and rehabilitate. We should do everything we can to make sure they have the equipment and resources needed and this is a common sense step toward making sure that goal is achieved," said Senator Clinton. Each branch of America's armed services has specific units that administer to the needs of seriously wounded and ill service personnel. The Marines and the Army have established Wounded Warrior Battalions and Warrior Transition Units to assist these servicemembers as they receive medical treatment. Due to outdated gift-acceptance rules, charitable donations to these soldiers and marines go unused for extensive periods of time as the approval paperwork slowly works its way through a complicated, bureaucratic process. In recent years, many local communities and private citizens have tried to contribute gifts, such as rehabilitation equipment, to help our wounded warriors in their recovery. The Friends of Wounded Warriors Act would put an end to the complicated gift-acceptance process. Current rules require high-level officials to authorize gifts of only a few thousand dollars, often delaying the acceptance of even small gifts for months. This legislation will streamline the process at Wounded Warrior Battalions by empowering the commanders of those units with the authority to accept gifts of up to $100,000. The provisions are drafted to give the Department of Defense latitude in deciding how to ensure that commanders of Wounded Warrior Battalions use their greater gift-acceptance authority responsibly and efficiently.
08.01.2008	08.01.08 Burr Applauds Passage of the Higher Education Opportunity Act Burr provisions included in bill will improve access and strengthen opportunities U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded passage of The Higher Education Opportunity Act, which renews higher education programs and contains several provisions that he sponsored. Burr's provisions included an increase in support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), an increase in aid for military members and veterans, a simplified application process for federal financial assistance, improved teacher preparation, and improved access to information for States to evaluate the performance of their higher education programs. "I am very excited that we will be able to expand access to higher education and improve higher education programs because of this bill," Burr said. "This bill will go a long way towards strengthening our system of higher education and ensuring that students can access and afford college. Most importantly, it will help our students graduate from college with the skills and knowledge they need to compete in the 21st century economy." Recognizing the importance of increasing the number of African Americans with masters degrees, the bill included a Burr provision that creates a new masters degree program at HBCUs. Under this new program, Fayetteville State University, Elizabeth City State University, and Winston-Salem State University will each receive $3 million over the next six years to develop and improve masters degree programs in a number of subjects, including the sciences, information technology, engineering, mathematics, nursing, and allied health. Although HBCUs represent just three percent of all colleges and universities in the nation, HBCUs account for 21.6% of all baccalaureate degrees awarded to African Americans, 11.4% of all masters degrees, and 10.8% of all doctoral degrees. Another Burr provision expedites a study on how to make it easier for students and their parents apply for federal financial aid programs. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) currently asks 127 questions contained on five pages and is longer than the Income Tax 1040EZ form, which contains 37 questions on a single page. This provision requires a study group of federal officials and representatives of higher education to submit recommendations for changes to Congress within the next year. In addition, the bill includes a Burr provision to create one coordinated website for military personnel, veterans, and their dependents to make them aware of all the various Federal and State financial assistance programs for which they are eligible. Burr recognizes that the most important factor to student achievement is teacher quality. To this end, he included a provision that will require institutions that prepare students to be future teachers to set annual goals for increasing the number of teachers in shortage areas such as math, science, special education, and instruction of limited English proficient students. It also requires goals for more closely linking the instruction provided by colleges of education to prospective teachers with the needs new teachers face in the classroom. In order to improve the quality of education at the post-secondary level, Burr introduced a provision to authorize grants for States to gather comprehensive data in order to evaluate the effectiveness of their institutions and develop better informed educational policies.
07.31.2008	07.31.08 Burr Applauds Passage of Bill to Increase Benefits for Wounded Veterans and Their Families U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today applauded the passage of S. 2617, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008, a bill he cosponsored, which will increase the rate of compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and compensation for the survivors of certain disabled veterans. The bill passed the Senate today and moves to the House of Representatives for consideration. "The men and women who have suffered service-related injuries while serving our nation and their survivors deserve to be compensated at a rate that reflects the current cost-of-living," Burr said. "There is no group of Americans to whom we owe more than our nation's veterans who were injured in service to their country. One of my top priorities as Ranking Member is to ensure that they receive the assistance and care they have earned through their brave service." The Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to increase benefits by the same percentage as the cost-of-living (COLA) adjustment provided to Social Security recipients and VA pension beneficiaries. That increase is expected to be 2.8% and would result in an $857 million boost in benefits to veterans and their survivors in 2009. VA estimates that it will provide disability compensation to over 3 million veterans with service-connected disabilities in 2009. This bill will help those veterans keep up with the cost-of-living by increasing the benefits they receive as a result of their service to our nation. This increase will take effect on December 1, 2008.
07.22.2008	07.22.08 Burr Lauds Senate Passage Of Clean Boating Act Bill protects rights of recreational boaters U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) applauded the passage of S. 2766, the Clean Boating Act of 2008, which he cosponsored. The bill, introduced by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), protects our nation's recreational boaters while ensuring the health of our waterways. It passed the Senate earlier today and moves to the House of Representatives for consideration. "I am a proud cosponsor of this bill which protects the ability of recreational boaters to enjoy America's waterways, and I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for its passage this morning," Burr said. "The Clean Boating Act will limit unnecessary regulations on recreational boaters and will help ensure that our waterways remain accessible for future generations to enjoy." The Clean Boating Act was drafted in response to a federal court decision that nullified a 1973 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ruling that deemed it unnecessary for recreational boaters to be subject to state and federal permit requirements that were designed for large crafts such as cruise ships and supertankers. The 2006 decision stated that the EPA did not have the authority to issue this ruling and, as a result, all recreational boaters would have to obtain a federal or state permit by September 2008 in order to legally operate their boat. Over 18 million Americans would have been impacted by annual fees and new enforcement guidelines as a result. The Clean Boating Act protects boaters from these requirements by restoring the permit exemption for recreational boats. It also addresses environmental concerns and protects the waterways these boaters enjoy by researching the impact of incidental discharges associated with recreational boating. Senator Burr is Co-Chairman of the Congressional Boating Caucus, a bipartisan group concerned with issues affecting recreational boaters. The goals of the Caucus are to improve the economic viability of the boating industry, support the protection of the waterways and surrounding environment, promote boating safety and create international trade opportunities for the industry.
07.17.2008	07.17.08 Burr Urges Action On Judge Conrad Nomination Today marks one-year of Senate inaction U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement to mark the one-year anniversary of North Carolina District Court Judge Robert Conrad's nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit: "Bob Conrad is a capable and qualified nominee, and there is no reason why the Senate should continue to drag its feet on his confirmation," Burr said. "He has faithfully served North Carolina on the federal district court bench and I know if confirmed he would continue his impeccable service on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Senate should move forward with Judge Conrad's nomination without further delay. Judge Conrad has been denied an up-or-down vote for long enough." Conrad has twice been unanimously confirmed by the Senate for judicial positions in the past. President Bush appointed him to serve as United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina in 2001, and in 2005, he was confirmed for his current job as a federal district court judge. Along with Conrad, Tom Farr has also been waiting for action on his nomination to the currently vacant federal district court seat in the Eastern District of North Carolina, in his case for over a year. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, located in Richmond, Virginia, hears federal appeals from cases filed in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. While North Carolina is the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit, the state can presently claim only one judge on the fifteen judge bench.
07.14.2008	07.14.08 Burr Statement On President Bush’s Lifting Of Deep Sea Exploration Ban U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement today regarding President Bush's announcement that he is lifting the Executive Moratorium on deep-sea exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf: "I'm pleased that the President has lifted the executive order banning deep-sea exploration for energy resources. Four dollar a gallon gasoline has affected every family in North Carolina, and it is time for the Democrat Leadership in Congress to stop blocking action and pass long-term energy legislation like The Gas Price Reduction Act, which I have cosponsored. This legislation would lift the Congressional moratorium on Outer Continental Shelf exploration by giving states the ability to opt in on energy exploration off their coasts. We need a comprehensive approach to this energy crisis that allows us to find more and use less."
07.09.2008	07.09.08 Burr Statement On The Medicare Improvements Bill U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement in response to today's vote in the Senate on the Medicare Improvements For Patients And Providers Act (H.R. 6331): "Today's vote on the Medicare bill was yet another unfortunate display of partisanship instead of working together to solve problems. I am pleased the doctor's reimbursement cuts have been avoided and the durable medical equipment competitive bidding program is being delayed, but I am very disappointed this has come at the unnecessary expense of Medicare Advantage, a program enjoyed by over 200,000 North Carolinians. I have been very clear in my opposition to cutting Medicare Advantage reimbursements to pay for other changes to the Medicare program." "It is unfortunate that so many will have their health care plans cut because of the actions of this Democrat majority today. By refusing to work together, the Democrat leadership not only wants to punish those who enjoy the benefits of Medicare Advantage, but they want to play politics with our seniors and the doctors and pharmacists that care for them. The American people deserve better."
07.09.2008	07.09.08 Burr Calls For Improvement To Veterans Disability Claims Process Emphasizes need for automation and updated disability rating schedule U.S. Senator Richard Burr today called for improvement to the veterans disability claims process during a hearing for the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. Veterans applying for disability benefits usually wait six months for a decision. Over 390,000 disability claims are pending review, among the highest levels in ten years. Congress has increased funding and staffing levels at VA to improve efficiency but little progress has been made. "For many years, VA's claims processing system has been plagued by large backlogs and long delays," Burr said. "Veterans back in North Carolina regularly tell me how frustrated they are with this confusing process. Simply throwing more money and more personnel at the problem clearly hasn't been the solution. We need better answers and new ideas to solve this problem once and for all. That may include the increased use of technology and converting to a fully electronic claims process." The Veterans Health Administration uses an electronic records system that has been widely praised. Also, a few other VA programs are almost completely paperless and have been able to take great advantage of electronic recordkeeping. While VA has developed pilot programs using electronic records for disability claims processing, the system as a whole continues to use paper records and an array of software programs with little integration. A 2008 study conducted by IBM Global Business Services reported that processing times could be significantly reduced by using electronic records. Although Burr emphasized the need for VA to move forward with making the claims process paper-less, he also warned that lasting improvements in the claims process may require more than just automation and a few small changes. "Commissions and studies have stressed for more than five decades the need to update VA's disability rating schedule, a tool that is the cornerstone of the entire claims process. Without updating this critical part of the claims system, we may succeed in speeding up the process, but the results for veterans may be no better," Burr added. Burr has introduced legislation, the America's Wounded Warriors Act (S. 2674), that would require VA to replace its outdated disability rating schedule with a new schedule that is based on modern science and medicine. It would also take into account the impact that a disability has on both a veteran's average loss of earning capacity and loss of quality of life. A veteran who already receives disability compensation would have the choice of keeping their current benefits (with cost of living increases) for the rest of their life or being rated under the new schedule.
07.09.2008	07.09.08 Senate Approves Resolution Honoring Jesse Helms U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr helped introduce a resolution honoring former North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms, who passed away on July 4, 2008. All 100 Senators co-sponsored the resolution, which passed yesterday evening, and American flags adorning the Capitol remain at half-mast in honor of Senator Helms' service to the nation. "It is a privilege to offer this resolution honoring Senator Helms," said Dole. "His 30 year tenure serving North Carolina in the Senate was marked by extraordinary dedication to the people he served, devotion to principle and unyielding patriotism." "I am proud to offer this resolution to honor someone who has contributed so much to North Carolina and to the nation," Burr said. "Jesse Helms was one of the most influential members to ever serve in this body, and the impact of his work here will be felt for generations to come." The text of the resolution is below: SENATE RESOLUTION 608--RELATIVE TO THE DEATH OF JESSE ALEXANDER HELMS, JR., FORMER UNITED STATES SENATOR FOR THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA -- (Senate - July 07, 2008) --- Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., born in Monroe, North Carolina on October 18, 1921, spent a 52-year public career dedicating himself to his country, his family, and his home State, representing North Carolina in the United States Senate for 30 years; Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., served in the United States Navy from 1942 until 1945; Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., was educated in the public schools of Monroe, North Carolina and at Wingate Junior College and Wake Forest College, served as city editor of the Raleigh Times, administrative assistant to United States Senators Willis Smith and Alton Lennon, executive director of the North Carolina Bankers Association, member of the Raleigh City Council, and a television and radio executive; Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., was elected to the United States Senate in 1972, and served as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate Agriculture Committee, ultimately serving five terms, equal to the longest of any Senator from North Carolina; Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., was a leader against Communism and became the first legislator of any nation to address the United Nations Security Council; Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., was married for 65 years to Dorothy ``Dot'' Coble Helms, whom he termed his ``best friend'' and is the father of three children; Whereas Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., made invaluable contributions to his community, State, Nation, and the World; Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the announcement of the death of the Honorable Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr., former Member of the United States Senate. Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate communicate these resolutions to the House of Representatives and transmit an enrolled copy thereof to the family of the deceased. Resolved, That when the Senate adjourns today, it stand in adjournment as a further mark of respect to the memory of the Honorable Jesse Alexander Helms, Jr.
07.04.2008	07.04.08 Burr Statement On The Passing Of Senator Jesse Helms U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement today about the passing of his friend and colleague, former Senator Jesse Helms: "Brooke and I are extremely saddened to hear the news of the passing of Jesse Helms. Jesse was a mentor and good friend and his contributions to North Carolina and to the nation were countless. We will miss him tremendously. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Dot and the entire Helms family."
06.26.2008	06.26.08 Burr Statement On The Passage Of The Supplemental Funding Bill U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement today after the Senate passage of The 2008 Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R.2642): "I am pleased that the Senate has approved a supplemental funding bill that the President can sign into law. It is unfortunate that political games have been played with this funding, which the President requested over 500 days ago, that supports our troops in combat. It is up to the Congress to provide our men and women in uniform with the tools they need to fight the War on Terror, and I am glad to see the Congress finally come together to provide for our troops in harm's way." "As the Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I am pleased that this legislation will provide a long overdue boost to education benefits provided to our veterans, making college more affordable to those who serve. Included in this bill is a provision from Senator McCain, Senator Graham, and myself that will allow career servicemembers to transfer their benefits to others in their family, giving our military a vital tool they need so they can continue to recruit and retain the best America has to offer."
06.26.2008	06.26.08 Burr’s “Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act” Approved By Senate Panel Committee also includes pilot program for Burr’s dental coverage bill The U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs today approved Senator Burr's Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act (S.3167), which would end an arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans of their Second Amendment rights. The measure was offered as an amendment to the Veterans' Medical Personnel Recruitment and Retention Act of 2008 (S.2969). Burr's amendment was approved by voice vote and the committee unanimously approved the underlying legislation, which can now move to the Senate floor for consideration. "I am very pleased the committee endorsed this legislation protecting our veterans' second amendment rights," Burr said. "My bill would ensure America's brave men and women enjoy the rights they fought so hard to protect. This legislation was included in a larger piece of legislation that will improve the care provided to our veterans. I hope the Senate can quickly consider this bill and I urge my colleagues to support it." Currently, when the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) appoints a fiduciary to assist a veteran with managing their financial affairs, VA also deems the veteran mentally incompetent and reports him or her to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act would require a judicial body to deem a veteran, surviving spouse, or child as a danger to himself or others before being listed in NICS, which would prohibit the veteran from being able to purchase certain firearms. The legislation is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, AMVETS, and the Military Order of the Purple Heart. The legislation also included a pilot program for Burr's dental health insurance bill (S.3178). The bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to establish a dental program for all veterans who rely on VA for their health care in two regions. Veterans would pay a premium for the service, which would use the VA's buying power to offer affordable dental insurance coverage. Burr's legislation is modeled after the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program (TRDP), in which military retirees are given the option to purchase dental coverage under a private contract managed by the Department of Defense. The bill would not replace any dental services already provided by VA.
06.26.2008	06.26.08 Burr Calls For Action On “Gas Price Reduction Act Of 2008” Bill provides solutions to the nation’s energy problems U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) called on his Senate colleagues to quickly consider and pass The Gas Price Reduction Act of 2008. The bill, introduced today by Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and cosponsored by Senator Burr, is a comprehensive plan to address the problem of soaring gas prices. "Our country needs to take immediate action to combat rising energy prices," Burr said. "We need a comprehensive approach that includes more short-term domestic exploration as well as a large investment in new technologies so we can relieve the economic pain that American families are feeling. We also need to take steps to move us away from our dependence on foreign oil so that we will be less vulnerable to high gas prices in the future." The legislation would increase domestic energy production, thereby easing the pressure on domestic and international energy markets. The bill allows States to make a determination about exploration off their coasts. Offshore exploration would be required to be conducted out of sight of the coast with stringent environmental protections. It also includes a revenue sharing program that would give 37.5% of the royalties to State Governments. Additionally, this bill would repeal the moratorium on oil shale production on federal lands, allowing exploration where it is estimated there is 3 times as much recoverable oil than in Saudi Arabia. In addition, the Act calls for a concerted effort to increase research and development for plug-in hybrid electric cars and trucks. This includes providing incentives for better and more efficient batteries such as providing funds for direct loans for advanced battery manufacturing facilities. The bill also calls on the Federal Government to purchase more plug-in hybrid electric vehicles as a start with the goal of moving to an all-electric platform.
06.26.2008	06.26.08 Burr Announces Approval Of New North Carolina Veterans Clinics Robeson, Rutherford clinics will allow greater access to VA care U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced the approval of two new Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) for North Carolina. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) plans to construct the CBOCs in Robeson and Rutherford counties and open them to patients within fifteen months. The two clinics will provide primary and preventative care to local veterans who otherwise would have to travel many miles to get their health care. The Robeson County facility is expected to serve 1,600 veterans and the Rutherford County facility is expected to serve 2,700 veterans. "I applaud VA for building these new clinics, which will allow veterans to receive excellent health care much closer to home," Burr said. "VA has responded to North Carolina's growing veteran population by opening more of these clinics where veterans live. I will follow these two projects closely and look forward to the opening of these two clinics." CBOCs provide primary and preventative care such as physicals, disease screening, patient education, routine lab work, and immunizations. Veterans requiring specialized care will continue to receive treatment at their local VA Medical Center. When the Robeson and Rutherford clinics are complete, VA will be operating thirteen CBOCs in North Carolina.
06.26.2008	06.26.08 Burr Statement On PEPFAR Tentative Agreement U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement today following the news of an agreement being reached on the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR): "I am pleased that we have been able to reach an agreement on PEPFAR that ensures that funds will actually go to treating people with HIV/AIDS. PEPFAR has been one of the most successful foreign-aid programs in our history, and I am glad we will be able to save lives by keeping our focus on providing much-needed medical treatment to those who are suffering in the poorest of countries. I hope the Senate will approve this important legislation as soon as possible."
06.26.2008	06.26.08 Burr Statement On Supreme Court Ruling On Second Amendment Rights U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) released the following statement today in response to the Supreme Court's ruling on District of Columbia v. Heller: "I applaud the Supreme Court's decision today. The Second Amendment right to bear arms is a fundamental right of law-abiding citizens. The Court made the right decision today because federal, state and local governments should not be able to arbitrarily take away freedoms that are reserved for the people by our Constitution."
06.23.2008	06.23.08 Burr Introduces Legislation To Provide Veterans With Greater Access To Dental Insurance Bill would let veterans and their families benefit from VA’s buying power U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today introduced legislation that would provide veterans with access to dental insurance. The bill would allow the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) to establish a dental program for all veterans, surviving spouses, and certain dependent children who are enrolled in VA's health care system. The program, which is completely voluntary, would give veterans the benefit of VA's buying power in order to get lower premiums on dental insurance coverage. "Healthy teeth are an important part of overall health, and our veterans should have access to affordable dental care," Burr said. "This legislation would provide veterans with access to group insurance rates they may not otherwise be able to get on their own. The Department of Defense runs a similar program that has given over a million retirees and their families access to dental coverage. With this kind of success, it seems only fitting that we offer the same kind of benefit to the 7.9 million veterans enrolled in VA health care." Although VA does provide dental coverage under some circumstances, the vast majority of people receiving care from the department do not have access to dental care through VA. Burr's legislation is modeled after the TRICARE Retiree Dental Program (TRDP), in which military retirees are given the option to purchase dental coverage under a private contract managed by the Department of Defense. The bill would not replace any dental services provided by VA. "This legislation would ensure that servicemembers and veterans are well-served and get to reap the benefits of group rates and competition," Burr added.
06.20.2008	06.20.08 Burr Introduces “Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act” Legislation would end arbitrary process that strips veterans of their rights U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today introduced legislation that would end an arbitrary process through which the government strips veterans of their Second Amendment rights. Under current practice, veterans who have a fiduciary appointed to act on their behalf are deemed "mentally defective" and reported to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act would require a judicial body to determine that a veteran, surviving spouse, or child is a danger to themselves or others before they are listed in the FBI's NICS, which would prevent the purchasing of certain firearms in the United States. "I am very concerned that government employees can so easily take away a veteran's right to bear arms," Burr said. "Under current VA policy, veterans who cannot manage their own financial affairs are labeled as mentally defective and cannot purchase a handgun. My legislation would protect the rights of veterans and their families by ensuring that a judge will determine who is referred to NICS." The Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (P.L. 103-159) prohibits certain individuals from purchasing a firearm, including those who have been deemed a "mental defective." Over 116,000 people who receive VA benefits have been reported to NICS, stripping them of their constitutional rights, simply because the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) appointed a fiduciary to act on their behalf. A fiduciary handles disability compensation, pension, survivors' compensation, and other VA payments on behalf of a veteran, surviving spouse, or child. The VA appoints a fiduciary when they believe a veteran cannot handle their own financial affairs. The process does not determine whether they are a danger to themselves or others. "No matter where my colleagues fall on the gun issue, I hope we can all agree that we need a process that is consistent and fair for our veterans. Our veterans took an oath to uphold the Constitution and they deserve to enjoy the rights they fought so hard to protect," Burr added.
06.19.2008	06.19.08 Burr, Dole Urge Confirmation Of N.C. Judge To U.S. Court Of Appeals Judge Conrad supremely qualified to serve U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Elizabeth Dole today called for the quick confirmation of Judge Robert Conrad of North Carolina. They spoke at a press conference hosted by the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Judge Conrad was nominated by President Bush to serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit on July 17, 2007. "Bob Conrad is a very qualified nominee with a long history of public service and he has a reputation as a fair and capable judge," Burr said. "His confirmation has been delayed for over 330 days and it is wrong to hold up this nomination, especially when he has been unanimously confirmed by the Senate twice before. Unfortunately for North Carolina, Judge Conrad is not alone. I urge my colleagues to stop blocking these nominations and give Judge Conrad and Thomas Farr a hearing." "Like Judge Conrad, Thomas Farr's nomination to the federal bench has languished far too long without so much as a hearing," said Dole. "Nearly 600 days ago, Thomas Farr was nominated to serve as a District Court Judge in the Eastern District of North Carolina. Both of these dedicated public servants are abundantly qualified to serve on the bench, and it's high time their nominations were given appropriate consideration by the Judiciary Committee." Conrad is a 1983 graduate of the University of Virginia School of Law. In 1989, he became an Assistant United States Attorney in Charlotte. President George W. Bush appointed Conrad to serve as United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina in 2001 and he was unanimously confirmed by the Senate. In 2003, he was nominated by the President and unanimously confirmed by the Senate to serve as a U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina in Charlotte. He is currently serving as the Chief U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit is located in Richmond, Virginia, and hears appeals from cases filed in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. North Carolina is the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit and currently, only one judge on the fifteen judge bench is from North Carolina.
06.17.2008	06.17.08 Dole, Burr, Hayes Announce $2.43 Million Workforce Investment Grant U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr and Rep. Robin Hayes today announced the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded the North Carolina Department of Commerce with $2.43 million in grant funding to aid 1,620 North Carolina workers affected by mass layoffs at Freightliner Trucks in Cleveland, N.C. and Jevic Transportation in Concord, N.C. "This much-needed funding will give workers the tools and resources they need to transition to new jobs in the wake of these widespread layoffs," said Dole. "I applaud Secretary Chao for working with us to give these North Carolina workers access to career counseling, job training and family support services." "I am glad that the Department of Labor has extended this grant to provide much-needed help for those who are facing tough times," Burr said. "North Carolina's workers and communities are resilient and talented, and this support will help in the economic recovery of the area. As our local communities roll up their sleeves, I believe the Congress must play its own part in promoting pro-growth policies to strengthen our economy." "I am pleased these workers will receive this important funding from the Department of Labor," said Hayes. "I have always pledged that our office would do all it could to assist displaced workers from the 8th District and the State of North Carolina. This grant will make it more possible for these workers to receive expanded assistance and job training to help them make a successful change in their career." The funding comes from the Department of Labor's National Emergency Grants Program (NEG), which is designed to supplement the resources and service capacity at the state and local levels by providing emergency funding in response to large dislocations and disasters. According to the Department of Labor, affected workers will have access to a full array of dislocated worker services, including a nation-wide network of career centers to prepare for new jobs, career counseling services, and supportive services like child care and transportation. For workers needing to upgrade their skills, training for high-growth and high-demand occupations will be available.
06.12.2008	06.12.08 Burr, Byrd Introduce Resolution Honoring Last American World War I Veteran U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and Robert Byrd (D-West Virginia) yesterday introduced a resolution honoring Frank Woodruff Buckles, the last surviving American veteran of World War I. The measure authorizes Mr. Buckles to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda upon his death. By order of the President, he will then be interred at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. "Mr. Buckles is our last link to an important part of our nation's history," Burr said. "By honoring him, we pay our final respects to an entire generation of Americans who fought in the 'Great War.' I am pleased to sponsor this resolution with Senator Byrd honoring the patriotism and dedication of Mr. Buckles and all who served during World War I." "West Virginian Frank Woodruff Buckles, at the impressive age of 107, is the last surviving American veteran of "the Great War," World War I," Byrd said. "The life story of Mr. Buckles admirably reflects the great courage and sacrifice of the 4.7 million Americans who served in that war, including 58,053 West Virginians. From a 16-year old ambulance driver in France during World War I to an enemy prisoner in the Philippines during World War II, to working his family's farm in West Virginia, Frank Buckles exemplifies the American ideals of bravery, perseverance, and patriotism. I am honored to cosponsor this resolution to honor Frank Woodruff Buckles and, through him, his generation of World War I military veterans." To justify the use of the Capitol Rotunda for this distinct and solemn honor, the resolution reads: Whereas the veterans of the First World War fought bravely and made heroic sacrifices for the Allied forces; and Whereas past resolutions have sought authorization for American heroes to lie in honor in the rotunda of the Capitol upon an individual's passing, it is the Nation's collective desire to express its gratitude for the service of all World War I veterans by making it known to that war's last American survivor the honor it wishes to bestow on him before he passes. Buckles joined the Army in 1917 and deployed to England following basic training. He was soon moved to France, where he served as an ambulance driver. He escorted prisoners of war back to Germany following the end of hostilities in November 1918. Buckles left the Army a Corporal in 1920 and began a career as a merchant seaman. His work took him to the Philippines in 1941, where he was taken prisoner by the Japanese. He spent over three years as a civilian prisoner of war at Los Baños, where he was rescued by American military forces in 1945. After the war he moved to West Virginia and bought a farm, where he lives today.
06.12.2008	06.12.08 Burr And Kennedy Introduce Bill To Improve Health Security Measures Bill Improves Regulations for Potential Bioterrorism Agents Today, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), along with U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA), introduced the Select Agent Program and Biosafety Improvement Act of 2008, to reauthorize the Select Agent Program and improve our nation's approach to biosafety and biosecurity. The Select Agent Program regulates the possession, use, and transfer of biological substances that pose a severe threat to public or animal health. Authorization for the program expired in September of 2007. "We must remain vigilant in our efforts to protect the American people from bioterrorism," Burr said. "The Select Agent Program is an important part of ensuring the nation's safety and security and I look forward to working with my colleagues to reauthorize and improve the program." "This legislation is part of Senator Kennedy's ongoing work to see that full potential of the nation's researchers can be directed toward protecting the health of American families from the new disease threats of the twenty-first century," said a spokesperson for Senator Kennedy. In addition to reauthorizing the Select Agent Program, this legislation will require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to modernize the list of select agents by considering recent scientific advances, which make it possible to create dangerous pathogens from scratch or modify them and make them more deadly. The bill will also improve training for personnel in high containment laboratories and establish a voluntary incident reporting system to help identify protocols for safety and security improvements. "This bill is necessary to guarantee the safety of laboratory workers and ensure that we have the most efficient and effective procedures possible for regulating dangerous biological agents," Burr added. "In this time of exciting scientific advances, we must make sure our laws and prevention programs reflect current conditions."
06.11.2008	06.11.08 Burr Announces Military Academy Nominations U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced his nomination of twenty-nine North Carolinians to serve at one of our nation's military academies. The nominees were selected after an application and interview process conducted by Senator Burr's Academy Selection Committee, which is comprised of military academy graduates, veterans, and community leaders from across the state. The nominees, their hometown, parents' names, and high school are listed below the academy to which they have been nominated. United States Military Academy at West Point Mr. Kevin M. Keating Cary, North Carolina Currently West Point, NY Son of Robert and Andrea Keating James I. O'Neill High School Mr. Carl R. Grantham III Winston-Salem, North Carolina Son of Ray and Allison Grantham Mount Tabor High School Mr. Gregory W. Young Greensboro, North Carolina Son of Victoria Ann McLean Young Grimsley High School Mr. John Valitutto Greensboro, North Carolina Son of Richard and Julene Valitutto Bishop McGuinness Catholic High School Mr. Vincent L. Smith Greensboro, North Carolina Son of Daryl and Bobbie Smith Mr. Brett Schuck Newport, North Carolina Son of Andy and Jeane Schuck Southeast Raleigh Magnet High School Mr. Kenneth M. Robertson III Mooresville, North Carolina Son of Kenneth and Lisa Robertson Lake Norman High School Mr. Timothy Horan Cary, North Carolina Son of Timothy and Maria Horan Green Hope High School Mr. John-Thomas Wells Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Gene Thomas and Louise Wells Broughton High School Mr. Brian Sears Waynesville, North Carolina Son of Jonathan and Linda Sears Tuscola High School Mr. Gabriel Whaley Midland, North Carolina Son of Scott and Lana Whaley NC School of Math & Science Mr. William R. Cauley IV Burgaw, North Carolina Son of William and Sheryl Cauley Pender High School United States Air Force Academy Miss Kirsten Buslinger Elon, North Carolina Daughter of David and Ruth Buslinger Integrity Christian Academy Mr. Derek R. Graves Raeford, North Carolina Son of Scott and Darlene Stevenson Hoke County High School Mr. Joel D. Short Winston-Salem, NC Son of Van and Carol Short Forsyth Country Day School Mr. Charles W. Paul Salisbury, North Carolina Son of Charles and Kay Paul Salisbury High School Mr. Henry S. Darr (Scott) Thomasville, North Carolina Son of Henry and Chandra Darr Wesleyan Academy Mr. Matthew A. Mrozek Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Albert and Gail Mrozek Sanderson High School Mr. Matthew R. Street Hendersonville, North Carolina Son of Dwayne and Tonya Street East Henderson High School Mr. James M. Hamilton Hamlet, North Carolina Son of Jerry and Irma Hamilton Richmond Senior High School Mr. Michael W. Malone Lincolnton, North Carolina Son of Daniel and Antoinette Malone North Side Christian Academy Mr. Cole Smith Charlotte, North Carolina Son of Warren and Missy Smith Hickory Grove Baptist Christian School Mr. Andrew Chinlund Fayetteville, North Carolina Son of Charles Asbornsen and Alicia Chinlund Jack Britt High School Mr. Jacob Dockery Clayton, North Carolina Son of Wayne and Diane Dockery Clayton High School United States Naval Academy Mr. Thomas W. Smith Chapel Hill, North Carolina Son of D. Joe and Vicky Smith Fork Union Military Academy Mr. Justin R. Casper Tarboro, North Carolina Son of Joyce Anderson North Pitt High School Mr. Uditbhan Rathore Charlotte, North Carolina Son of Abhai and Monica Rathore Providence High School Mr. Christopher C. Morgan Arden, North Carolina Son of Bradley and Donna Morgan TC Roberson High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Mr. Dustin T. Potter Granite Falls, North Carolina Son of Mr. and Mrs. Terry Potter South Caldwell High School
06.11.2008	06.11.08 Dole, Burr and Jones Introduce Legislation to Allow Off-road Vehicle use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr and U.S. Rep. Walter Jones today introduced legislation in the Senate and House of Representatives that would reinstate the Interim Management Strategy governing off-road vehicle use on Cape Hatteras National Seashore (CHNS). The reinstatement of the original Interim Management Strategy, issued by the National Park Service (NPS) on June 13, 2007, would set aside current mandates and requirements which were put in place in the wake of a consent decree filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, that prevent off-road vehicle and citizen access to a significant portion of this National Seashore. "I share the concerns of many North Carolinians about the negative ramifications that severely restricting off-road vehicle use at CHNS will have on the local community and economy," said Dole. "Beach users and members of the local community deserve to have their voices heard to ensure the development of a long-term plan that protects the natural habitat of the Seashore while maintaining its economic and recreational benefits." "As Ranking Member on the National Parks Subcommittee, I always try to make sure that North Carolinians have access to our state's scenic treasures," said Burr. "It is unfortunate that people are prevented from accessing Cape Hatteras at times because of the new restrictions. I am certain we can come to a compromise that allows people to have access while at the same time addressing any potential environmental concerns." "The consent decree has once again shown that managing the Seashore through the courts - without public input - is always a bad idea," said Jones. "This bill would restore reasonable public access and would bring the public back into the process on a level playing field by reinstituting the Interim Management Strategy until the Negotiated Rulemaking Committee can produce a final rule." If enacted, the National Park Service's Interim Management Strategy will go into effect immediately and end upon the National Park Service establishing a long-term off-road vehicle management plan for the use of CHNS by the public. Background In 1972, President Richard Nixon issued an Executive Order that required all federal parks, refuges and public lands that allow off-road vehicles access to develop and implement a detailed management plan to regulate and assess environmental impacts. CHNS never developed a management plan, and as a result, Cape Hatteras has been out of compliance for over three decades. In December 2005, the NPS developed a three-phase plan to begin the negotiation process and create regulations that would allow CHNS to meet compliance standards; however, on July 17, 2007 an injunction was filed by the Defenders of Wildlife and the National Audubon Society to prevent off-road vehicle use until a management plan is established and approved. A settlement negotiation process ensued, and on April 30, 2008, a federal judge approved a consent decree, proposed by the plaintiffs and agreed to by the parties involved in the case - the National Park Service, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Superintendent of Cape Hatteras National Seashore and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The settlement, which went into effect on May 1, 2008, requires that all seashore ramps be closed to ORVs from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m. through November 15, 2008, that buffers for nests and chicks are clearly defined and in some cases more restrictive, and that deliberate violations of the buffers will result in an expanded restricted area.
06.05.2008	06.05.08 Burr Praises Appointment Of North Carolinian To Veterans’ Rural Health Committee Panel will advise VA on rural health care U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the appointment of Dr. Thomas C. Ricketts, III to the Veterans Rural Health Advisory Committee at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Dr. Ricketts is the director of the North Carolina Rural Health Research Program at the Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research in Chapel Hill. The committee will advise VA Secretary James Peake on rural health care issues. "I am pleased Dr. Peake has chosen Dr. Tom Ricketts to advise VA on rural health matters," Senator Burr said. "Dr. Ricketts has years of experience in the rural health field and he will make an excellent addition to the committee. I look forward to working with Dr. Ricketts and the committee on improving health care for veterans in rural areas of our country, including North Carolina." VA's Office of Rural Health oversees a host of rural health programs. For example, VA is implementing a mobile system that would provide medical care and services to veterans in rural areas. Veterans can also be referred to local health providers through a VA program if they do not have access to VA health care. Dr. Ricketts is Professor of Health Policy and Administration and Social Medicine at the University of North Carolina School of Public Health and School of Medicine and co-director of the American College of Surgeons Institute for Health Policy Research. He is the founding director of the North Carolina Rural Health Research Center, which he led from 1988 until 2000. In 2003 he began work as the director of the Southeastern Regional Center for Health Workforce Studies. Dr. Ricketts works actively in health workforce policy making and research. He is the editor of a standard text on rural health, Rural Health in the United States (Oxford, 2000). Dr. Ricketts earned his Bachelor of Arts in History from UNC Chapel Hill, where he was a Morehead Scholar. He also received a Masters in Public Health and a Ph.D. in Health Policy and Administration from UNC.
06.04.2008	06.04.08 Burr Statement On FY2009 Federal Budget Democrat budget contains largest tax increase in history Following passage of the Democratic Majority's proposed budget for the 2009 fiscal year, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement: "At a time when American families are facing rising gas prices, food prices, and an uncertain economy, the Democrats have presented a budget that includes the largest tax increase in history. This budget, if enacted, would have Americans send even more of their hard earned money to Washington at a time when they need it the most. As I have said many times, Congress should spend the taxpayer's money wisely or not at all. This budget does not control wasteful spending and does not limit excessive earmarks. We must enact a fiscally responsible budget that keeps our taxes low and our spending under control. This budget does neither, and I cannot support it."
06.04.2008	06.04.08 Burr Applauds Senate Passage Of Bi-Partisan Veterans Mental Health Legislation Bill includes Burr’s homelessness measure U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the Senate for passing the Veterans Mental Health Improvements Act of 2008 (S.2162). The legislation includes Burr's Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act (S.874), which aims to prevent veterans at risk of homelessness by providing them with supportive services. The bill was approved by the Senate last night and will now go to the House of Representatives for consideration. "Our veterans served our country with honor and they should not be forgotten when they return home," Burr said. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. This legislation will help those on the edge of becoming homeless by getting them help from the community. It is much easier to prevent homelessness than it is to bring someone out of the cycle of homelessness. I applaud the Senate for passing this bi-partisan measure that will bring help to those who need it most." Burr's Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act would provide supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. It would provide veterans with greater access to housing assistance, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. North Carolina is home to over 770,000 veterans and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) estimates that over 40,000 North Carolina veterans live in poverty. The Veterans Mental Health Improvements Act of 2008 would also ensure veterans suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders receive quality, coordinated treatment for both conditions. It would expand the availability of treatment VA offers for substance abuse, including detoxification and stabilization services. In addition, the measure would increase the availability of residential and outpatient treatment services for veterans with mental illnesses. The legislation would also codify VA's new travel reimbursement rate for certain veterans who drive to their medical appointments at VA. The rate was increased in January from 11 cents to 28.5 cents a mile by VA Secretary James Peake. By law, the deductible veterans must pay also increased in January by a proportionate amount. The legislation would reduce the deductible back to the 2007 level.
05.22.2008	05.22.08 Burr Calls For Open Debate On G.I. Bill U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today called for an open debate on G.I. Bill improvements. Burr is a co-sponsor of Senator Lindsey Graham's (R-South Carolina) Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention, and Readjustment Through Education Act of 2008 (S.2938). The legislation would enhance the existing Montgomery G.I. Bill by improving education benefits for service members, veterans, and members of the Guard and Reserve. Today the Senate voted on a competing measure, S.22 offered by Senator Jim Webb (D-Virginia). Senators were not permitted to offer amendments to this legislation, which was attached to a measure funding the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Burr voted against the legislation, which contains billions of dollars in domestic spending unrelated to the war effort. "Our legislation and Senator Webb's legislation both have their merits and both deserve an honest and open debate in the Senate," Burr said. "There are a lot of good provisions in Senator Webb's bill, but it would hurt retention, create more bureaucracy, and discourage states from subsidizing education. Senator Webb's legislation is tied to an emergency war appropriations bill riddled with unrelated domestic programs and closed to amendment. I am disappointed this legislation was not given full consideration on the Senate floor. Our veterans and servicemembers deserve better." The Graham-Burr-McCain bill would enhance education benefits and allow servicemembers to transfer unused benefits to their spouse or children. This provision would reward those who make the military a career and encourage servicemembers to reenlist. The legislation would also greatly increase education benefits and automatically adjust future benefits based on the rising cost of higher education. Webb's legislation is attached to the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 (H.R.2642), which provides funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and a wide range of unrelated programs, including NASA, the United Nations, and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).
05.22.2008	05.22.08 Burr Statement On War Supplemental Funding Bill This afternoon, U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) issued the following statement regarding today's vote in the Senate on the War Supplemental Funding Bill: "We must support our troops. I am disappointed that the Senate did not pass a clean supplemental bill that fully funds our troops who are in combat overseas. Tying troop funding to excessive unrelated domestic spending and pet projects is irresponsible. I encourage my colleagues to vote for a clean war supplemental bill that gives our troops the tools and resources they need to complete their mission without adding pork barrel spending. Our men and women in uniform deserve better."
05.21.2008	05.21.08 Senate Veterans’ Committee Considers Burr Mental Health Bill Legislation would provide incentives for veterans to get treatment for PTSD and other mental health disorders The U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs today heard testimony on the Veterans Mental Health Treatment First Act (S.2573) sponsored by Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member on the committee. The legislation would place a greater emphasis on treating veterans with mental health disorders and establish wellness incentives for veterans seeking treatment. "Our current system sees far too many veterans diagnosed with a service-related mental illness that gets worse over time." Burr said. "We owe it to our veterans to do better. My legislation would make treatment, wellness, and recovery the top priority. It would allow veterans to enter into a mental health treatment program and provide them with a wellness stipend, so they can still provide for their families while they recover." Under the legislation, veterans who enroll in the voluntary program would work with a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) clinician to develop an individualized mental health treatment plan. Any veteran who is diagnosed with PTSD, depression, or an anxiety disorder related to their military service would be eligible, regardless of their disability claims status. Those who enroll in the program would receive stipends to help them defray their living costs and to help them focus on their recovery. At the end of the treatment program, veterans can apply for disability compensation if they so choose. The Veterans Disability Benefits Commission and the Dole-Shalala Commission has recommended the VA take a more aggressive approach to treating mental health disorders, especially PTSD.
05.20.2008	05.20.08 Burr Statement On Senator Ted Kennedy U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement regarding the recent news about Senator Ted Kennedy: "I was saddened to hear the news about Senator Kennedy today. He is a valued friend and colleague here in the Senate, and we are keeping him and his family in our prayers." "Senator Kennedy has proven time and again that he is as tough as they come, and has earned the reputation as one of the hardest workers and effective fighters in the Senate. We look forward to his return. I am sure he will approach this challenge with the same determination he approaches everything else. We pray for an effective treatment from the doctors and a quick and speedy recovery."
05.20.2008	05.20.08 Burr Introduces Veterans Mental Health Treatment First Act Wellness Stipends Provide New Incentive for Veterans To Get Treatment For PTSD And Other Mental Health Disorders U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today introduced the Veterans Mental Health Treatment First Act, which places a greater emphasis on treating veterans with mental health disorders and will provide prevention and wellness incentives for those veterans to seek treatment. The bill creates a new voluntary program focusing on treatment and recovery for mental health disorders like depression, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), and anxiety disorder. The program would also treat substance abuse problems stemming from these illnesses. "Our current VA system does not effectively get veterans into treatment for mental health disorders," Burr said. "Thousands of our veterans suffer from PTSD and they need treatment. This legislation will give veterans an incentive to get treatment for PTSD and other mental health disorders." Veterans who enroll in the voluntary program would work with a VA clinician to develop an individual mental health treatment plan. Any veteran who is diagnosed with PTSD, depression, or anxiety disorder related to their military service would be eligible, regardless of their disability claims status. Those who enroll in the program would receive financial incentives, known as wellness stipends, for adhering to the prescribed treatment program. The financial incentive for program participants is based on the veteran's disability claim status. Veterans with no disability rating or pending disability claim for a covered mental illness can receive up to $11,000 in wellness stipends for following and completing a treatment program and withholding disability claims for one year. Participants would receive $3,000 upon diagnosis and enrollment, $1,500 for every 90 days of treatment, and $3,000 when they successfully complete the program. Veterans who aren't receiving disability benefits but have a claim pending may suspend their claim and receive the total wellness stipend. Veterans receiving disability benefits or who want to continue filing disability claims may still participate in this program, but will only receive one third of the full wellness stipend. Currently, the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), charged with treating PTSD, and the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), which provides disability benefits, are isolated from one another. One side focuses health and wellness and the other focuses on awarding compensation. Under this system, disability compensation can be awarded and increased over the years without a veteran ever receiving medical treatment. Both the Veterans Disability Benefits Commission and the Dole-Shalala Commission recommended the VA take a more aggressive approach to treating mental health disorders, especially PTSD. "We owe it to our veterans to first help them recover and lead healthier lives. I firmly believe we can help veterans recover from mental health disorders and return to a normal life by passing this legislation," Burr added.
05.16.2008	05.16.08 Burr Calls For IG Investigation At Temple, Texas VA Medical Center Veterans deserve accurate medical diagnoses on PTSD U.S. Senator Richard Burr, ranking member on the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today called on the Office of the Inspector General (IG) at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to investigate practices related to the diagnosis of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) at VA's Temple, Texas medical center. Senator Burr made the request along with Chairman Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii) today. The request is to ensure that the recently revealed email from a staff member at the Temple VA medical center did not influence the type of diagnoses given to veterans. "The hardworking VA staff is tasked with making a fair and honest assessment of a veteran's health when the veteran seeks treatment," Burr said. "It is troubling if even one person at VA would encourage other employees to make anything other than a completely honest health assessment of our veterans. These allegations are serious and we need to make sure this is an isolated incident. VA needs to make sure all veterans at the Temple facility have received and continue to receive the best care possible." The Inspector General's office is an independent organization tasked with ensuring investigating waste, fraud, and abuse. The senators have asked the IG to review PTSD diagnoses at the Temple facility and any benefits claims affected by those diagnoses. When the investigation is complete, the IG will provide a report containing its assessment of the incident and recommendations on how VA can fix any existing problems. "Veterans must be able to trust those charged with giving them care and benefits. I look forward to the Inspector General's report and expect VA to review all disability claims that may have been influenced as a result of this incident."
05.14.2008	05.14.08 Burr Supports Continued Funding for Global Treatment of AIDS Calls for majority of funding in bill to go towards treatment Today, at a press conference in Washington, U.S. Senator Richard Burr expressed his support for preserving funding for AIDS treatment in the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Senator Burr, along with Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. of Oklahoma and Jon Kyl of Arizona, introduced S.2749, the Save Lives First Act, which renews America's commitment to treating patients afflicted with HIV/AIDS. "AIDS is one of the gravest medical challenges of our time and we have the ability and responsibility to treat and prevent it," Burr said. "This virus has destroyed far too many lives already and it is time to say enough is enough. We must continue to support legislation that makes treatment a funding priority." PEPFAR, which provides aid to 114 countries, is the largest international health initiative by any nation dedicated to a single disease. Originally signed into law in 2003 and set to expire at the end of this year, PEPFAR is an extremely successful program to combat AIDS on a global scale. In order to meet its initial goals, Congress authorized the majority of its funding to go towards care and treatment for those afflicted. While many groups have attributed the success of PEPFAR to its dedication to treatment, Congress has removed a requirement in the current reauthorization bill that any money be spent on treatment. "Over 30 million people worldwide have HIV/AIDS and less than two million people in developing countries currently receive treatment," Burr said. "We need to continue to focus on providing life-saving medical treatment for those who suffer from this illness and we must expand early diagnosis so people who might not know their HIV status can get into treatment."
05.12.2008	05.12.08 Burr Urges Action On Judge Conrad Nomination Fourth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals vacancy is a judicial emergency This afternoon, U.S. Senator Richard Burr took to the Senate floor to urge his colleagues to move quickly and consider North Carolina District Court Judge Robert Conrad's nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Today marks the 300th day since Conrad was nominated to the position in July of 2007. "Bob Conrad is a capable and qualified nominee, and there is no reason why the Senate should continue to drag its feet on his confirmation," Burr said. "He has faithfully served North Carolina on the federal district court bench and I know if confirmed he would continue his impeccable service on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Senate should move forward with Judge Conrad's nomination without delay." Conrad has twice been unanimously confirmed by the Senate for judicial positions in the past. President Bush appointed him to serve as United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina in 2001, and in 2005, he was confirmed for his current job as a federal district court judge. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, located in Richmond, Virginia, hears federal appeals from cases filed in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. While North Carolina is the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit, the state can presently claim only one judge on the fifteen judge bench.
05.07.2008	05.07.08 Burr Applauds Senate Committee Approval Of National Parks Discount For Veterans, Soldiers Legislation would allow veterans and soldiers to purchase annual park pass for $10 U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources for approving legislation that would allow veterans to purchase a special, discount pass to see America's national parks. The Veterans Eagle Parks Pass Act (S.617) would establish a new $10 "Eagle Pass" that would allow former servicemembers to visit all national parks for a full year. The bill was amended by the committee to also allow active duty, reserve and guard members to be eligible for the pass. Burr is a co-sponsor of the legislation approved by the committee. "National parks are home to many of America's greatest treasures," Burr said. "A discount pass will make parks more accessible for our veterans and military members and would help them enjoy the land they helped to protect. I applaud the committee for passing this legislation and will work with my Senate colleagues to move this bill out of the Senate." Americans logged over 275 million visits to national parks in 2007, making the park system one our nation's most popular forms of recreation. Over 19 million people visited North Carolina's national parks, trails, battlefields, and historic sites in 2007. The park system in North Carolina comprises over 394,000 acres, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the Cape Hatteras National Seashore, and the Cape Lookout National Seashore. Burr is the Ranking Member of the National Parks Subcommittee and the Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
05.07.2008	05.07.08 Senate Veterans’ Committee Hears Testimony On Education And Disability Modernization Legislation The U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs today received testimony on two bills sponsored and co-sponsored by Senator Richard Burr. The committee reviewed S.2938, legislation introduced by Senators Graham, Burr, McCain, and 15 other Senators that would enhance education benefits provided to veterans, those on active duty, and members of the Guard and Reserve. The panel also examined the America's Wounded Warriors Act (S.2674), a bill introduced by Senator Burr that is designed to simplify and modernize the veterans' disability system at the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). S.2938, the Graham-Burr-McCain education bill, would improve education benefits for servicemembers, veterans, and members of the Guard and Reserve. The legislation would immediately increase education benefits for a broad range of military personnel and veterans and would help more of them attend college debt-free. Additionally, the legislation would allow more military personnel to transfer their education benefits to their spouse or children. It would also help recruitment and retention efforts by encouraging servicemembers to continue their military careers. "We need an education benefit that recognizes the service of those who wear the uniform and helps our warriors get the education they need to succeed after their military service," Burr said. "The Graham-Burr-McCain bill addresses three important goals - recruitment, retention, and readjustment. Our legislation will help many personnel and their families reach their educational goals debt-free, encourage career military service, and help sustain our all-volunteer force." The committee also reviewed the America's Wounded Warriors Act, which would require the VA to replace its outdated rating schedule with a new schedule that takes into account both average loss of earning capacity and loss of quality of life. It would also create "transition" payments to help medically discharged veterans focus on rehabilitation, training, and getting back into the workforce. The legislation would simplify the claims process by ending the duplicative system that requires many injured veterans to get rated by both VA and the Department of Defense. These updates provide common sense solutions for today's veterans living in the modern world. "Our current disability system often requires injured servicemembers to go through a lengthy, redundant, and bureaucratic process at two government agencies," Burr said. "We must update and simplify this system so our wounded warriors quickly receive the benefits and services they need to recover and lead productive lives." Senator Burr is the ranking member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
05.05.2008	05.05.08 Burr Praises Opening of New VA Clinic in Hamlet New facility will treat veterans closer to where they live U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for opening a new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Hamlet, North Carolina. A ribbon cutting ceremony was held today for the 6,000 square foot facility. The new CBOC will provide primary care and basic mental health services to veterans from Anson, Richmond, and Scotland Counties. "I am pleased the VA is opening this new facility, which will provide local veterans with quality health care closer to their homes," Burr said. "The VA has done an excellent job of responding to North Carolina's growing veterans population by opening new Community Based Outpatient Clinics. This new clinic will help the VA to provide great care to North Carolina's veterans," Burr added. Veterans who visit the Hamlet facility will be able to receive physicals, disease screening, patient education, routine lab work, immunizations, and outpatient mental health services. Veterans requiring specialized care will continue to receive treatment at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. VA opened a CBOC in Jacksonville last week and plans to open new clinics in Franklin and Hickory later this year. Burr serves as ranking member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
05.02.2008	05.02.08 Burr Applauds Opening Of New VA Clinic In Jacksonville New, larger facility will provide area veterans with greater access to care U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for opening a new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Jacksonville. A ribbon-cutting ceremony was held today for the 7,300 square foot facility. The new, larger CBOC will replace a 2,000 square foot clinic that was severely damaged by fire in March. "I applaud the Department of Veterans Affairs for opening this new facility, which will provide care to area veterans," Burr said. "The VA has responded to North Carolina's growing veterans population by expanding existing clinics and building new facilities like the Jacksonville facility. This new clinic will allow the VA to provide excellent care to more of North Carolina's veterans," Burr added. Veterans who visit the Jacksonville facility will be able to receive physicals, disease screening, patient education, routine lab work, and immunizations. Veterans requiring specialized care will continue to receive treatment at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. VA is hosting another ribbon-cutting event for its new Hamlet CBOC on Monday. The department plans to open new clinics in Franklin and Hickory later this year. Burr is the Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
05.01.2008	05.01.08 Senate Passes Brown And Burr’s Bill To Reduce Infant Mortality The U.S. Senate today passed the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2007 (S.1760). The legislation was introduced by Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) in July of last year. The bill aims to reduce infant mortality in the United States by extending the successful Healthy Start program which addresses the risk factors that lead to low birth weight and other health complications in babies and mothers. The initiative began in 1991 and this bipartisan legislation would extend the program through 2013. "I am very glad to see the Senate take this important step to continue programs that help save lives and ensure our children are healthy," Burr said. "I hope my colleagues in the House will pass this bill quickly to ensure Healthy Start programs, like Baby Love Plus in North Carolina, will continue to reduce infant mortality rates, premature births, and low birth weight." North Carolina has the tenth highest infant mortality rate in the country; 8.35 out of every 1,000 babies born in the state do not live to be one year old. The national average is 6.9 deaths per 1,000 births. In 1998, only 42% of women in the Healthy Start program areas received prenatal care. In 2003, that number reached 72%.
04.29.2008	04.29.08 Burr Works To Keep Poison Control Network Going Bi-partisan bill reauthorizes the poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and Patty Murray (D-Washington) introduced bi-partisan legislation that will continue support of the nation's poison control centers. Specifically, the bill reauthorizes the poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program. "The expert assistance provided by poison centers like Carolinas Poison Center, is available to families and hospitals 24 hours a day and significantly reduces the number of emergency room visits and associated health care costs for poisonings," Burr said. "We must renew our commitment to the nation's poison centers so they can continue to be a resource in detecting and monitoring public health emergencies." "The poison control network is literally a lifeline for millions of Americans," Senator Murray said. "This bill means that parents around the country can breathe a sigh of relief knowing that help is still just a phone call away." The poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and state grant program provide assistance for the national network of poison control centers. There are currently 61 poison control centers (PCCs) nationwide, including the Carolinas Poison Center in North Carolina. The Carolinas Poison Center is an emergency telephone service that is operated 24 hours a day by specialists including registered nurses and pharmacists. These professionals provide advice and treatment for victims of poisoning and provide assistance for healthcare professionals as well. Additionally, Carolinas Poisons Center facilitates community outreach and school programs to help spread awareness of the dangers of unintentional poisoning and they provide educational materials. The toll-free nationwide poison control hotline number is 1-800-222-1222.
04.25.2008	04.25.08 Graham, Burr, McCain Unveil Legislation to Assist Servicemembers, Veterans, Guardsmen and Reservists with Increased Education Benefits U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC), and John McCain (R-AZ) today unveiled the Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention, and Readjustment through Education Act. The Graham-Burr-McCain bill enhances the existing Montgomery G.I. Bill by improving education benefits for servicemembers, veterans, and members of the Guard and Reserve. The legislation will help more military personnel attend college debt-free, and allow them to transfer their education benefits to their spouse or children. It also bolsters recruitment and retention efforts, encouraging servicemembers to continue their military careers. "It is time we give back to those who have served and continue to serve our nation so valiantly," said Graham. "I'm proud to be part of this effort to recognize and reward the sacrifices service members and their families are making on behalf of a grateful nation. Our legislation increases the monthly benefit for active duty and reserve personnel and greatly expands the education benefits available to service members. For the first time we ensure that all servicemembers will be permitted to transfer their education benefits to their spouses and children, a much needed and long overdue improvement." "An increase in Montgomery G.I. benefits is long overdue," Burr said. "This legislation goes a long way in providing servicemembers with the ability to attend college debt-free and improves one of the best recruiting and retention tools the armed forces have. I am pleased our bill will also allow more family members to take advantage of the education benefits that their loved ones in the military did not use. This measure is a simple and fair way to help active duty, veterans, Guard, and Reserves attain their educational goals and to encourage military careers." "We have an obligation to provide unwavering support to our nation's veterans, and that is precisely what this legislation does," said McCain. "Men and women who serve their country in uniform deserve the best education benefits we are able to give them. That is why I am pleased to join with Senators Graham and Burr to announce legislation that significantly enhances the Montgomery GI bill and promotes recruitment and retention which is critical to an All Volunteer Military." The legislation provides: • An immediate increase in education benefits for active duty personnel to $1500 a month, and to improve retention, those benefits increase to $2000 a month after 12 or more years of service. • Significantly increased benefit for members of the National Guard and Reserves. • Transferability, the ability of service members to transfer their education benefits to dependents. After 6 years, half of the benefit may be transferred and after 12 years 100% may be transferred to a spouse or dependent children. • Student loan repayment. Allows servicemembers to use up to $6,000 per year of Montgomery G.I. Bill education benefits to repay Federal student loans. • Creation of a matching program to help more veterans graduate debt-free. Up to an additional $3,000 per year could be paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs in return for the school retiring some or all of the servicemember's debt. • Access to Montgomery G.I. Bill benefits for service academy graduates and Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps officers who continue serving. • Builds on existing educational benefits program to ensure rapid implementation with minimal additional administrative costs. "We do not need to reinvent the wheel," said Graham. "Our legislation improves benefits and modernizes the Montgomery G.I. Bill education program without creating new levels of red tape and bureaucracy." "The Montgomery G.I. Bill education program is an extremely effective tool that creates a more educated workforce and helps our armed forces recruit the best our country has to offer," Burr said. "This legislation ensures the MGIB program will continue to help veterans, our military, and our country." "We should encourage servicemembers to remain in the military, and they should be rewarded with additional benefits if they do," said McCain. "And, we need to ensure that families are not forgotten, which is why our legislation would allow servicemembers to transfer their benefits to their spouses or children if they so choose."
04.24.2008	04.24.08 Dole, Burr Applaud Committee Approval of Lumbee Recognition Bill U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today applauded approval by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee of a bill to provide full federal recognition to the Lumbee Tribe. The measure is now eligible for full Senate consideration. "Securing committee approval is a significant legislative hurdle to clear," said Dole. "I am very pleased we convinced the Committee to advance this bill one step closer to Senate passage. We will keep pushing for the Lumbee to be fully and fairly recognized, once and for all." "I was proud to vote for this bill that provides full federal recognition to the Lumbee Tribe today," Burr said. "I am pleased to see the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs take this important step to achieve the fairness and justice the Lumbees deserve. I look forward to seeing this bill come before the full Senate soon." In June 2007 the House of Representatives passed the Lumbee recognition bill, which is sponsored by U.S. Rep. Mike McIntyre. "This has truly been a bipartisan effort of cooperation, and Mike McIntyre and Richard Burr have been phenomenal allies," said Dole. Background North Carolina formally recognized the Lumbee Tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe, but it included a terribly unfair caveat - the Lumbee were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. The 1956 Lumbee Act actually prohibits the tribe from going through the Bureau of Indian Affairs process for full recognition. As the law now stands, the Lumbee Tribe can only be recognized by an act of Congress. One other tribe, the Tiwas of Texas, faced a similar situation following the passage of a comparable bill in 1965. In 1987, Congress enacted special legislation to recognize them. This makes the Lumbee the only tribe in the country still trapped in this limbo. The Lumbee Recognition Act was the first legislation introduced by Dole when she arrived in the Senate. In the 108th and 109th Congresses, she successfully advocated for the bill to be approved by the Indian Affairs Committee.
04.24.2008	04.24.08 Senate To Consider Burr Amendment To Veterans Bill Measure prevents establishment of foreign pension program and shifts money back to America’s veterans U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the ranking member on the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, introduced an amendment last night that would prevent the creation of a controversial foreign pension program would improve benefits for America's veterans. The Senate will take up the measure today beginning at 10:30 A.M. Burr's amendment addresses a provision in the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007 (S.1315) that would establish a $221 million pension fund for Filipino veterans who have no service related injuries, live in the Philippines, and already receive a pension from the Philippine government. The measure would remove the pension provision and use the money to increase grant programs that help disabled veterans modify their homes and cars, and enhance burial benefits. "The creation of a new foreign pension benefit is unacceptable when the needs of our disabled veterans are so great," Burr said. "My amendment is a fair compromise that honors the service of Filipino veterans but ensures veterans from the United States remain our top priority. I respect the Filipinos who served during World War II, but this special pension is the wrong priority at the wrong time. We must focus on the needs of American veterans, including those who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan," Burr added. The Burr amendment would remove the controversial pension measure and use the $221 million offset to: • Provide more money to help severely disabled veterans modify their home to better accommodate their disabilities, such as wheelchair ramps and accessible bathrooms. Burr's amendment increases this benefit by 10% and indexes future benefits to the residential cost-of-construction index, so payments keep up with inflation automatically. • Increase auto grants for severely disabled veterans from $11,000 to $15,000. Like the housing benefit, this program helps veterans by giving them mobility to help them live independently and provides an automatic annual increase in benefits. • Provide an automatic annual increase in burial benefits for the families of veterans who die due to service or service-related injury.
04.23.2008	04.23.08 Burr Calls For Reform of DOD and VA Disability System Burr legislation would simplify and update disability process WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today called for reform of the disability system at the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). He made the comments during a Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs hearing. The committee examined the work of the joint VA and DOD Senior Oversight Committee, which is tasked with helping the two departments better serve injured servicemembers through coordination and cooperation. As part of these efforts, the departments have started a pilot program to try to streamline the disability system. "For more than five decades experts have been telling us that we need to update, simplify, and modernize the disability system," Burr said. "An injured servicemember may go through a lengthy, complex and duplicative process with the Department of Defense and VA to obtain two different disability ratings. Both ratings are based on the same outdated VA rating schedule and confusing rules may limit the benefits a veteran can get from DOD and VA at the same time." "Both Departments are exploring ways to improve the existing system over the short term. But as General Peter Schoomaker recently said, 'When you speed up a bad process, all you have is a fast bad process.' Our wounded warriors deserve better than that. It is long past time for Congress to fix the system and make lasting improvements that will benefit veterans for generations to come." Burr introduced the America's Wounded Warriors Act (S.2674) in February. The legislation aims to fix many of the problems discussed during the committee hearing today. The bill would simplify the process by ending the duplicative system that requires all injured veterans to get rated by both VA and DOD. Veterans would receive their entire DOD benefits, plus any VA disability benefits, putting an end to the confusing practice of offsetting those payments. Veterans discharged from service because of disability would be eligible for transition payments to help cover family living expenses so injured veterans can focus on getting better and leading a more normal life.
04.14.2008	04.14.08 Burr Applauds Appointment Of BARDA Director Position authorized by Burr’s “Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act” U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) praised the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for appointing the first director of the Biomedical Advanced Research Development Authority (BARDA). The position was established as part of Senator Burr's Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA), which was signed into law on December 19, 2006. The department announced the appointment of Robin Robinson, Ph.D. to the position earlier today. "I am pleased to see HHS take this important step in preparing for potential health emergencies," Burr said. "Dr. Robinson brings a wealth of experience from both industry and government service. By having a permanent BARDA Director in place, HHS can move forward more aggressively with the development of drugs and vaccines to protect the American people from potential threats." The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (P.L. 109-417) improves the nation's public health and medical preparedness and response capabilities for emergencies. PAHPA empowers the Department of Health and Human Services to protect the public more effectively and efficiently by responding to public health emergencies with a clear line of authority from local to state to federal officials. It also speeds up the development of drugs and vaccines to protect the American people from health emergencies by establishing BARDA. BARDA leads the government's efforts to develop medical countermeasures to defend against chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear agents and emerging pandemic infectious diseases. The Director of BARDA will report directly to the HHS Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Dr. Craig Vanderwagen.
04.14.2008	04.14.08 Burr Calls For More Involvement In Our National Parks New Destination Center expands opportunities for visitors of all ages to Blue Ridge Parkway U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the opening of the new Blue Ridge Parkway Destination Center, highlighting the increased tourism it will generate in Western North Carolina. Burr also stated that the new center would help increase opportunities for kids to learn about the area and visit the parkway. He made the comments while attending the grand opening of the Blue Ridge Parkway Destination Center near Asheville. "The Destination Center that we dedicate today is important for welcoming visitors of all ages to western North Carolina," Burr said. "By working together, the National Park Service and the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area can make this center a destination that begins a journey into the history, culture and natural environment of North Carolina." "The Blue Ridge Parkway is in the early stages of starting a program called 'Healthy Children/Healthy Parks,'" Burr added. "Once up and running, the program will be funded entirely through donations. This is the type of program that is needed to get the young people of our country more involved in national parks." The new Blue Ridge Parkway Destination Center will highlight Western North Carolina's natural treasures with exhibits and information about the culture and natural environment of the region along the Blue Ridge Parkway. It includes a large, high-tech interactive map of the entire parkway and a brand-new, high-definition theater that will provide films to help broaden a visitor's experience when driving through the parkway. The Blue Ridge Parkway is a 469-mile road that spans from Shenandoah in Virginia to the Great Smoky Mountains in North Carolina. Each year, over 30 million visitors travel to Shenandoah, the Great Smoky Mountains and the Blue Ridge Parkway. For more information, please visit the National Park Service's website for the Blue Ridge Parkway at: http://www.nps.gov/blri/.
04.10.2008	04.10.08 Burr Applauds Veterans’ Provisions in Housing Bill Improves housing programs for disabled veterans and servicemembers U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the passage of the housing stimulus bill, which contains improvements to housing assistance programs for disabled veterans. The provisions enhance two VA grants which help severely disabled veterans modify their homes to better accommodate their disabilities. The bill passed today by a vote of 84-12. "I am pleased the Senate included provisions to help disabled veterans and servicemembers in the housing bill," Burr said. "These funds will provide important assistance like wheelchair ramps and accessible bathrooms, which are often the first step toward independence for these men and women with traumatic injuries." The legislation also makes disabled veterans with severe burn injuries eligible for housing assistance. Disabled veterans with severe burn injuries do not now qualify for this program. The grants can be used to modify an existing home or purchase a new home that is adapted for disabilities. The bill increases the rate of grant assistance by 20% and indexes future grant amounts to account for inflation.
04.09.2008	04.09.08 Burr Praises Torti Appointment To Senior FDA Post Wake Forest University researcher to serve as Chief Scientist U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the appointment of Dr. Frank M. Torti to serve as Principal Deputy Commissioner and first Chief Scientist at the Food and Drug Administration. Dr. Torti currently serves as director of the Comprehensive Cancer Center at the Wake Forest University School of Medicine. He also chairs the Department of Cancer Biology and is the Charles L. Spurr Professor of Medicine at the medical school. Torti was appointed to the post by Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, FDA Commissioner. "I am pleased Dr. von Eschenbach has appointed one of North Carolina's finest doctors to this prominent position," Burr said. "It is so important to have talented individuals like Frank in important positions at the FDA. I have been impressed by Frank's leadership and vision at the Comprehensive Cancer Center and look forward to working with him in his new role." As Principal Deputy Commissioner and first Chief Scientist, Dr. Torti will lead the effort in recruiting talented professionals to work at the FDA. He will also steer the FDA's internal research program, which is essential to improve information on drug, device, and food issues faced by FDA reviewers and employees. Dr. Torti began his medical training at Johns Hopkins University, where he earned his bachelor's and master's degrees. He received his M.D. from Harvard Medical School and his Masters in Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. Dr. Torti founded the Cancer Biology Training Consortium, a national society of cancer biology department chairs and program directors, where he currently serves as president. He is a recipient of National Institutes of Health MERIT Award. Dr. Torti received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Johns Hopkins University, his medical degree from Harvard Medical School, and his Master of Public Health from Harvard School of Public Health. He served as an intern and resident at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, and as a fellow of medical oncology at Stanford University where he subsequently joined the faculty and was tenured. He has written extensively on prostate and bladder cancer, designed and executed a number of cancer clinical trials, and has substantially contributed to the understanding of the molecular mechanisms that underlie inflammatory diseases and cancer.
04.03.2008	04.03.08 Burr: “Every American Should Have Access To Health Insurance” Eight week Senate initiative to call for health reform in Congress U.S. Senator Richard Burr today called on Congress to modernize and reform our nation's health care system. He urged for health care reform while participating in a health care panel sponsored by the Heritage Foundation today. Other panelists included Senators David Vitter (R-Louisiana) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina). The panel discussion kicked off an eight week initiative to discuss health care reform in the Senate. Several Republican senators will be presenting common-sense health care ideas that empower Americans to have access to affordable, high quality health care without government mandates and intervention. "Every American deserves access to quality, affordable health insurance" Burr said. "We have seen a real contrast in the approach to health care policy. Instead of having the federal government control our health care decisions, I believe we need to work to make health care more affordable for individuals through tax reform and more consumer choice. Our health is too important to be left to Washington bureaucrats." Burr introduced the Every American Insured Health Act in August of last year. The bill aims to provide all Americans with access to affordable, high-quality health insurance. The legislation would allow Americans to buy health insurance on the free market, regardless of age, income, or employer. Under the legislation, each American would receive a refundable, advanceable tax credit of $2,160 for individuals and $5,400 for families to pay for health insurance. "It is long past time for health care reform in this country. We must act now to make sure that every American is insured, and that our country remains competitive in the global marketplace for years to come," Burr added.
04.01.2008	04.01.08 Burr: We Must Do More To Keep Kids In School Highlights high school graduation rate crisis during kickoff event U.S. Senator Richard Burr today called for action to address the growing crisis of America's high school dropout rates. He made the remarks today at a press conference sponsored by America's Promise Alliance (APA) which announced the start of its two-year Dropout Prevention Program. The program will hold summits in various communities to help raise awareness of the growing dropout rate and strive to find community-based solutions. The program aims to reduce high school dropout rates and prepare students for college, work, and life. "80 percent of high school dropouts are concentrated in only fifteen states, including North Carolina," Burr said. "We must do more to these kids in school. Over 30% of North Carolina's public high school students never graduate. This is unacceptable. Students who drop out have higher rates of poverty, unemployment, and incarceration, than individuals with at least a high school diploma." Right now only 68% of North Carolina students graduate from high school. Graduation rates are lower for certain subgroups of students. Only 60% of Black students, 55% of low-income students, and 52% of Hispanic students receive a high school diploma. To help improve graduation rates, Burr introduced the Graduate for a Better Future Act (S.765) with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-New Mexico) in March of last year. Burr's legislation seeks to help public high schools keep kids in school by focusing on the 3 R's of rigor, relevance, and relationships. "We must ensure that all students have access to a challenging curriculum that will prepare them both for college and for work. We also need students to understand the connections between what they are learning in the classroom and the working world. Finally, we need to help these students build relationships with counselors and teachers to make sure no one falls through the cracks," Burr added. The bill would encourage public high schools to develop a challenging curriculum that prepares all students for college and work, offer academic catch-up programs, and develop a college guidance program. The legislation would also develop an early warning system and a student advisement program to identify students at risk of dropping out. A report by Civic Enterprises indicates 88% of high school dropouts had passing grades when they dropped out, 58% dropped out with two or fewer years left to complete high school, and 66% said they would have worked harder in school if expectations had been higher.
03.13.2008	03.13.08 Burr Statement On Earmark Moratorium Vote “Missed opportunity” to move towards reform U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today issued the following statement regarding the Senate's vote on an earmark moratorium for Fiscal Year 2009: "I have long believed that the process of airdropping earmarks in Congressional spending bills has gotten out of control. I believe Congress must fully debate spending items in public -- in an open and transparent way. I am disappointed the Senate missed this opportunity for earmark reform. Americans deserve a government that spends their money wisely or not at all. I will continue working with my Senate colleagues to reduce waste, promote efficiency, and bring transparency to government spending." The bi-partisan amendment, introduced by Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), was co-sponsored by Senator Burr and 14 other Democratic and Republican senators. The measure calls for a ban on all earmarks in the FY 2009 budget.
03.13.2008	03.13.08 Senate Committee Approves Brown and Burr’s Healthy Start Legislation Bill aims to reduce infant mortality WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions today approved the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2007 (S.1760), which aims to reduce infant mortality in the United States. The legislation was introduced by Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) in July of last year. The Healthy Start program has been successful in addressing the risk factors that lead to low birth weight and other health complications in babies and mothers since the initiative began in 1991. The bipartisan legislation would extend the program through 2013. "The Healthy Start Reauthorization Act is essential in helping our nation's most disadvantaged children survive infancy and live longer, healthier lives," Brown said "Healthy Start does more than just help pregnant women cope with pregnancy; it is there for women regardless of their financial or living situation. This bill advances the public health and promotes the common good." "Healthy Start programs, like North Carolina's Baby Love Plus, have made great progress in reducing infant mortality, premature birth, and low birth weight," Burr said. "Healthy Start is a critical program that saves lives and ensures more of our nation's children stay healthy. I am pleased my Senate colleagues took a step today towards ensuring more of America's children start life in good health." In 1998, only 42% of women in the Healthy Start program areas received prenatal care. In 2003, that number reached 72%. Although the Healthy Start program has been largely successful, much work remains to be done. North Carolina has the tenth highest infant mortality rate in the country; 8.35 out of every 1,000 babies born in the state will not live to be one year old, well above the national average of 6.9 deaths per 1,000 births. The bill now awaits passage by the full Senate.
03.11.2008	03.11.08 Burr Calls For Improved, Seamless Care For Veterans Hearing focuses on family support needs for wounded warriors U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today called for the expansion of efforts to solve the problems faced by our returning wounded warriors and their families. The Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs heard testimony today from family members of servicemen wounded in Operation Iraqi Freedom highlighting the struggles and problems they faced once their loved ones returned home, injured and needing care. Burr called on the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to address each of the cases to determine how the problems they experienced can be avoided in the future. "I want to know that future families will not experience what these three families have had to endure," Burr added. "Families play a critical role in the recovery process of our wounded warriors and it is important to provide them with proper support. We must do better." The Committee heard from three family members of wounded servicemembers who suffer from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), including Jackie McMichael of Raleigh, North Carolina who spoke about the care that her husband Michael received from the VA after returning from Iraq. Along with Mrs. McMichael, the Committee heard testimony from Peter J. Bunce, Colonel USAF (Retired), the father of Justin Bunce and Robert Verbeke the father of Daniel Verbeke. All three family members described, in-detail, their experiences in getting treatment and care for their loved ones and the toll it takes on family members who try to navigate the bureaucratic process at the VA to get the necessary care and treatment. Click here to see the prepared opening statements of all of the witnesses. "We can help families most by providing quick, hassle-free, and quality services to their loved ones," Burr said. "Although I do believe we've made progress, we still have work to do to help our veterans receive the care and rehabilitation services they need."
02.28.2008	02.28.08 Burr Introduces Veterans Disability Benefits Reform Brings long overdue modernizations to veterans’ disability system U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member on the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs introduced legislation today that would simplify and modernize the veterans' disability system at the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The "America's Wounded Warriors Act" would require VA to replace the current outdated VA rating schedule with a new schedule that takes into account both average loss of earning capacity and loss of quality of life. It would also create "transition" payments to help medically discharged veterans, so they can focus on treatment, rehabilitation, and getting back into the workforce. The bill would simplify the claims process by ending the duplicative system that requires all injured veterans to get rated by both VA and the Department of Defense. These updates provide common sense solutions for today's veterans living in the modern world. "Veterans deserve the best. They deserve a disability system that is modern, simple, and available to older veterans and future veterans. Right now, veterans have a confusing, outdated process to get their disability benefits," Burr said. "We cannot put this off for another 50 years. Our veterans deserve a system that is simple, up-to-date, and open to all." The legislation would establish a new disability retirement system for servicemembers deemed unfit for service. It would pay a lifetime annuity based on rank and years of service, regardless of the level of severity of the servicemember's disabilities. Veterans would receive the entire Department of Defense annuity and any VA disability benefits, ending the confusing practice of offsetting these payments now. It would also create a bright-line rule on what benefits a medically discharged servicemember would receive, regardless of what branch of the military he or she was in. Lifetime eligibility for health and dental coverage under TRICARE will be determined after Congressional consideration of a Department of Defense study. All other existing retirement benefits, such as commissary and exchange privileges, would be extended to all who retire under the new system. Modernization of the VA disability system is the second component to this legislation. It directs the VA to conduct several studies in relation to a new modernized disability system and report its findings to Congress. Studies include determining the appropriate amounts of compensation under a new, modern disability rating schedule. Additional studies include determining the appropriate amount and duration of transition payments to be paid to servicemembers retired due to disability, who are participating in intensive programs of rehabilitation or who are within three months of medical retirement from active duty. Additionally, the legislation directs VA to submit a proposal to Congress detailing the new rating schedule and transition payment rate structure and the entire proposal would be subject to an up-or-down vote by Congress. The new system would be open to all veterans. Recipients of compensation under the old system would have their disability ratings grandfathered in unless they submit a claim under the new system.
02.27.2008	02.27.08 Burr Calls For Veterans’ Disability Reform Studies show need for modernization of outdated system U.S. Senator Richard Burr today called for a large-scale reform and improvement of America's disability system for wounded warriors and veterans. Burr delivered his remarks during a U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs hearing on studies provided to the Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC). Experts from the Institute of Medicine and The CNA Corporation provided testimony during the hearing. "The findings in these reports make it very clear that there is an urgent need to update and modernize the veterans' disability system," Burr said. "We have young men and women returning home from war with devastating injuries and they need to come back to a system that cuts out red tape and quickly provides them the benefits and services they need to return to full and productive lives." "We need to take action now to fix these problems. I plan to introduce a bill that would incorporate many of the recommendations from these reports. I look forward working with Senator Akaka to ensure our wounded warriors have a modern, consistent, and coordinated system to help them return to full and productive lives," Burr added. The hearing focused on three reports from the Institute of Medicine and one report from The CNA Corporation. The VDBC used all four reports to develop recommendations on improving the current disability system. All of the studies acknowledged deficiencies in the current system, including the disability ratings schedule, assessment process, and lack of focus on quality of life.
02.08.2008	02.08.08 Burr: We Must Do More To Keep Kids In School North Carolina report shows increase in drop-out rate U.S. Senator Richard Burr today commented on yesterday's report on North Carolina's high school dropout rate. The North Carolina Department of Public Instruction issued its annual report on dropout rates on Thursday. The report shows an increase in the number of kids leaving the state's high schools without a diploma. "Thursday's report is further proof that we must do more to keep kids in school and help them earn a high school diploma. Our changing economy demands skilled workers with a good education. Kids are dropping out of school because we simply aren't meeting their needs. There is much we can do to encourage them to stay in school and to improve our high schools to meet the needs of today's students. In particular, we know that there are 3 R's to making our high schools work better for students—Rigor, Relevance, and Relationships," Burr said. "Kids need caring and qualified teachers who provide a challenging curriculum that encourages them to finish high school and prepares them to succeed in college and the work force. I will continue to work to improve our federal education policy so that North Carolina students have the skills they need to succeed," Burr added. Senator Burr introduced the Graduate for a Better Future Act (S.765) in March of 2007. The legislation aims to help public high schools improve graduation rates by focusing on Rigor, Relevance, and Relationships. The bill establishes a competitive grant program targeted at school districts and high schools with the lowest graduation rates. According to a report by Civic Enterprises, 88% of high school dropouts had passing grades when they dropped out; 58% dropped out with two or fewer years left to complete high school; 66% said they would have worked harder in school if expectations had been higher; 81% realized a high school diploma was vital to their success in life; and 74% said they would have stayed in school if they had the opportunity to do it all over again. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP).
02.07.2008	02.07.08 Burr Praises Passage Of Economic Stimulus Bill Legislation provides needed boost for the economy U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) today released the following statement regarding the passage of the economic stimulus bill: "I am pleased the Senate has passed an economic stimulus bill today. Our economy needs a boost. We improved the original House-passed economic stimulus legislation by adding rebates for seniors, disabled veterans and their widows, and making sure rebates do not go to illegal immigrants. By lowering taxes and reducing government spending we can further ensure that our economy can grow, now and in the future."
02.04.2008	02.04.08 Burr Statement On Veterans Funding In President’s Budget U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), the ranking member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, today released the following statement regarding the President's budget request for fiscal year 2009: "I look forward to reviewing the President's budget proposal and working with the White House and my Senate colleagues to improve the services we provide to America's veterans. The President has made veterans a priority in his budget for 2009 by increasing funding by 5.8%. "VA's budget has nearly doubled in the last decade. I look forward to ensuring these dollars are spent effectively to improve the lives of our veterans and I look forward to learning more during the committee's hearing on the budget next week."
01.29.2008	01.29.08 Burr Introduces State Sales Tax Relief Bill Alternative To Rebates Designed To Boost Consumer Spending, Stimulate Economy In April U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today introduced legislation encouraging states to suspend their sales tax as an alternative economic stimulus to the current rebate proposals being debated in Congress. The Sales Tax Holiday Act of 2008 would establish a national sales tax holiday for ten days beginning April 3rd to provide an economic boost for small businesses and consumers. Under the bill, states participating in the voluntary program would receive significant financial assistance from the federal government. "The buying power of the American consumer is the best means we have for creating economic stimulus," Burr said. "Tax holidays have a strong track record of increasing consumer purchases and sparking economic growth. By giving people the incentive to shop, more money will be pumped in our economy, giving it the boost it needs." The tax holiday would run from April 3rd through April 14th. The ten day period spans two full weekends of shopping before the April 15th tax deadline. The legislation encourages consumer spending to stimulate the economy at a time when the heavy federal tax burden is looming large on the minds of Americans. By temporarily removing the sales tax, the overall cost of goods and services would be reduced from 2.9% to 7% depending on the state sales tax percentage, increasing purchasing power and encouraging spending. Under the measure, states could voluntarily suspend sales tax collection for ten days. The federal government would share the cost of lost tax revenue with participating states. States would be required to notify the Secretary of the Treasury by March 1, 2008 in order to qualify for federal assistance. The U.S. Department of the Treasury would pay participating state governments a total of sixty percent of lost tax revenue by July 1, 2008.
01.29.2008	01.29.08 Burr Praises New Law Improving Veterans’ Benefits Better Education Benefits And Improved Treatment For TBI U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today praised President Bush's signing of H.R.4986, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which contains several improvements to veterans' benefits. The legislation strengthens the relationship between the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Department of Defense (DOD), enhances education benefits for National Guard and Reserve members, and expands benefits and research programs for veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI). "I applaud President Bush and my congressional colleagues for getting the job done on this important piece of legislation," Burr said. "This law provides our troops with equipment like armored vehicles and body armor. I am particularly pleased with some of the important provisions designed to help those returning from combat, including improved education benefits for National Guard and Reserve members and improved TBI treatment programs for all of our returning heroes." Under the new law, National Guard and Reserves who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan can now receive full education benefits after three total years of active duty service. They can also participate in the "buy-up" program, which provides up to $5,400 in additional education benefits. With these changes, Guard and Reserve members may receive over $37,000 in education benefits. Coupled with additional amounts paid from DOD for critical or hard to fill skills, their benefits may cover over 90% of the cost of a four-year public college education, including tuition, fees, room, and board. National Guard and Reserves may also participate in the Accelerated Payment Program, which pays for up to sixty percent of the cost of short term, high cost vocational training. The new law also enhances services and benefits provided to veterans with traumatic brain injury. It requires the VA to develop individual treatment plans for all patients with TBI and develop a long-term care program for post-acute TBI patients. It also allows recently separated combat veterans to receive priority access to VA health care for five years following separation, up from the two years they currently receive.
01.28.2008	01.28.08 Burr Statement On The State Of The Union Address By President George W. Bush U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement regarding the President Bush's State of the Union Address: "Tonight, the President outlined goals for his final year in office. He talked about the need for a modernized system to care for our veterans, strengthening and improving our kids' education, making sure our economy remains strong and making sure we have the tools we need to effectively fight the War in Iraq. The President's call to take on the challenges facing our nation's veterans is more than welcome. I believe veterans face confusing, bureaucratic programs and lots of paperwork. We devote a lot of resources to these programs, but we need to modernize the VA system for all veterans and provide much needed reform to improve benefits. In this fast-paced global economy, all of our children must be equipped with the academic skills needed to succeed. I agree with the President's call to strengthen No Child Left Behind and I introduced legislation last year that does just that. My legislation builds on and improves No Child Left Behind by responding to the legitimate concerns of parents, teachers, and principles, while preserving the foundation that has made the program successful--accountability. Access to affordable, personal health care is an issue that touches every American. Last year, I introduced the Every American Insured Health Act to provide access to affordable, high-quality health insurance through the free market for all Americans, regardless of age, income or employer. I believe everyone should have access to affordable health care, and I urge my colleagues to work to pass this bill to lower costs and provide access to health care for every American. I appreciated the President's remarks on the economy. I understand that many North Carolinians have concerns about the economy because of continuing fluctuation in the financial markets and in the housing market. I continue to believe that the best way to foster economic growth is to keep our taxes low and to keep government spending under control. I applaud the President's call to make the tax cuts permanent and I also welcome the President's pledge to veto appropriations bills that do not adequately cut the number of earmarks. We have a responsibility to spend the taxpayer's hard-earned money wisely or not at all, and the President's pledge to cut wasteful spending will keep more money in the hands of taxpayers. Finally, President Bush's description of the progress made in Iraq was encouraging. Gen. David Petraeus and the brave men and women who are fighting in Iraq have made progress in the past year, and Americans should be proud of their hard work. I continue to believe we must succeed in Iraq and that success will define the security for our children and for generations to come."
01.28.2008	01.28.08 Burr Statement On Marion VA Reports Senator Richard Burr, Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, issued the following statement in reaction to two Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reports concerning the VA Medical Center in Marion, Illinois: "The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) must provide excellent care for those who have worn our nation's uniform and it is inexcusable for veterans to lose their lives because of substandard care provided at the Marion VA Medical Center. To the families of those veterans, I express my deepest sympathies." "I expect the VA to quickly implement the recommendations from the reports of both the Inspector General and the VA's Office of the Medical Inspector and for those who are responsible for these deaths to be held accountable. While no evidence exists to suggest that these problems are occurring at other VA facilities, the VA should conduct a thorough review to ensure this is an isolated incident. I look forward to working with Senator Akaka to oversee the implementation of both the Inspector General's and the VA Office of the Medical Inspector's recommendations."
01.24.2008	01.24.08 Burr Calls For Modernized Disability System Outdated Veterans Disability System Needs Modernization U.S. Senator Richard Burr today urged his Senate colleagues to consider fundamental reforms to our nation's disability system for wounded warriors during a hearing of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. The hearing focused on recommendations from the Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC) and featured testimony from the VDCB chairman, Lieutenant General James Terry Scott (Retired). The committee also heard from officials from the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, The Veterans of Foreign Wars and The American Legion. "We cannot continue to ignore the need for modernization," Burr said. "We need to create a system for today's veterans and not leave them with a system that was outdated before they were even born." The VDBC issued its final report to Congress on October 3, 2007. The report contained over 100 recommendations addressing all aspects of veterans benefits, from health care to claims processing. The commission called for a system-wide reform of the benefits system, including removing the disability rating function from the Department of Defense, updating the VA rating schedule, and placing a greater focus on rehabilitation. The VDBC was established by the National Defense Authorization Act of 2004 to study laws relating to veterans and survivor compensation and assistance and VA's implementation of those laws. The commission's thirteen members were appointed by the President and Congressional leaders. "I hope we can all work together to find the best way to modernize this system for all veterans." Burr added. "It is a failure of the highest magnitude if we don't provide these heroes, who have sacrificed so much for their country, with the benefits and services they need and deserve to return to full, active, and productive lives."
01.23.2008	01.23.08 Senate VA Committee To Examine Disability Benefits Commission Recommendations Hearing to focus on reforming veterans disability compensation system U.S. Senator Richard Burr announced today that members of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs will hold a hearing on recommendations from the Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC). The hearing will take place in room 562 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building on January 24 at 9:30 AM. The hearing will feature testimony from the chairman of the VDBC and officials from three veterans' organizations. WHO U.S. Senator Richard Burr WHAT Senate VA Committee Hearing on Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC) Recommendations WHEN January 24, 2008 9:30 AM WHERE 562 Dirksen Senate Office Building Washington, DC The VDBC issued its final report to Congress on October 3, 2007. The report contained over 100 recommendations addressing all aspects of veterans benefits, from health care to claims processing. The commission called for a system-wide reform of the benefits system, including removing the disability rating function from the Department of Defense, updating the VA rating schedule, and placing a greater focus on rehabilitation. The VDBC was established by the National Defense Authorization Act of 2004 to study laws relating to veterans and survivor compensation and assistance and VA's implementation of those laws. The commission's thirteen members were appointed by the President and Congressional leaders. Witnesses Panel I Lieutenant General James Terry Scott (Retired), Chairman, Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission Panel II Mr. Todd Bowers, Director of Government Affairs, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Mr. Gerald Manar, Deputy Director, National Veterans Service, Veterans of Foreign Wars, representing The Independent Budget; Mr. Steve Smithson, Deputy Director for Claims Service, National Veterans Affairs and Rehabilitation Commission, The American Legion
01.22.2008	01.22.08 Burr Statement On Navy’s OLF Site Selection Announcement Reiterates need for local support Senator Richard Burr today made the following statement regarding the Navy's announcement that it will consider two North Carolina sites for an Outlying Landing Field (OLF): "It has always been my hope that the Navy and the State of North Carolina could find a location for an OLF that was acceptable to both the military and the local community. It was clear that some of the previously proposed sites were opposed by North Carolinians and I am pleased that those sites are no longer under consideration. The Navy has announced it will now evaluate potential sites suggested by North Carolina and the Commonwealth of Virginia. It is crucial the Navy listen to the local community when considering these sites. This lengthy process has been difficult on many North Carolinians, and I hope that the Navy can follow the siting process and find a resolution to this matter."
12.27.2007	12.27.07 Burr Statement On The Terrorist Attack In Pakistan U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement on the terrorist assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto: "The news of the terrorist attack and assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of Benazir Bhutto and to the families and friends of the others who were killed." "Unfortunately, this tragedy is a grim reminder of the global terrorist threat facing the civilized world and our resolve to ending extremist terrorism strengthens as a result. This attack is a direct assault on the freedom of the Pakistani people and their democratic process. We will continue to work with the Pakistani people to fight these terrorists and to provide a more peaceful future."
12.27.2007	12.27.07 President Bush Signs Burr’s Chimpanzee Protection Bill Into Law Law Protects Retired Chimpanzees U.S. Senator Richard Burr was pleased the President signed into law the chimpanzee protection bill, S.1916. The legislation amended the Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Maintenance, and Protection Act of 2000 (CHIMP Act), which established a haven to house chimpanzees retired from federally-sponsored research labs. The bill passed the Senate on December 13 and the House of Representatives on December 19. The President signed the bill into law on Wednesday. "I am pleased the President has signed this bill," Burr said. "This law ensures retired chimps will not be called back for additional medical research. These chimps have helped further medical knowledge and deserve permanent retirement," Burr added. The CHIMP Act of 2000 authorized $30 million for the construction and operation of the chimpanzee sanctuary system and established a public-private partnership in which other organizations help cover the operating costs. The law restricts the research permitted on retired chimpanzees housed in the sanctuary system to only noninvasive behavioral studies and medical studies based on information gathered during the course of normal veterinary care. The measure bars the National Institute of Health from taking retired primates from the Chimp Haven in Keithville, Louisiana for the purposes of medical research. The original law allowed chimps to be removed from the sanctuary for further research if specific criteria are met and the new law removes those provisions.
12.19.2007	12.19.07 Burr’s Security Legislation Included In New Energy Law Language Makes Energy Secretary Part Of National Security Council, Calls For Energy Security Plan Senator Richard Burr today applauded President Bush for signing the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007 (H.R. 6). The bill, which was passed by the Senate last week, includes legislation offered by Senator Burr to strengthen U.S. national energy security. Burr's provisions make the Secretary of Energy a member of the National Security Council and direct the President to develop a national strategy to enhance energy security. "I believe our dependence on foreign sources of oil poses a great threat to American national security," Burr said. "Many oil producing nations face political instability and a major disruption of energy supplies would have a significant impact on our economy. Developing a national strategy on energy security and ensuring the Secretary of Energy is involved in our national security are two ways we can address challenges caused by energy dependence." The United States produces over 5 million barrels of oil a day and imports over 10 million barrels of oil each day. Overall, the United States depends on foreign imports for six out of every ten gallons of gasoline consumed domestically. Despite our heavy reliance on foreign oil, there is currently no national coordinated energy security policy. Burr's provisions will require the administration to develop a national strategy for protecting our energy security and ensure the Secretary of Energy has a strong voice in national security issues.
12.19.2007	12.19.07 Burr Statement On The “Omnibus” Bill (H.R. 2764) Senator Richard Burr voted against H.R. 2764, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 last night and releases the following statement: "Every year, Congress is tasked with funding our government, and we should do so in a fiscally responsible way. This year's massive 'omnibus' bill was over 3,400 pages long. With a total of over half a trillion dollars in government spending, and with no time to really review its contents, I believe it does not responsibly spend the taxpayers hard-earned money. It also uses legislative gimmicks to hide billions of dollars in additional spending, which should be accounted for through the normal annual budget process." "These spending bills must be considered more carefully. I believe Congress should debate each spending item and review its merits. This is the largest domestic spending bill in U.S. history and it was debated in both the House and Senate for less than 24 hours. This is an irresponsible way to fund our nation's government and I did not support this legislation."
12.19.2007	12.19.07 Senate Passes Burr, Dole Resolution Commending Wake Forest University Men’s Soccer National Championship Senate resolution honors College Cup title The U.S. Senate last night passed a resolution commending the Wake Forest Demon Deacons' first ever College Cup in soccer. Senators Burr and Dole sponsored the Senate measure. The Demon Deacons beat the Ohio State Buckeyes 2 to 1 on December 16 at the SAS Soccer Park in Cary, North Carolina. The resolution was unanimously approved by the Senate on Tuesday night. Text of the resolution is below: IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES Mr. BURR (for himself and Mrs. DOLE) submitted the following resolution; RESOLUTION Commending the Wake Forest University Demon Deacons of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, for winning the 2007 National Collegiate Athletic Association Men's Soccer National Championship. Whereas the Wake Forest Demon Deacons beat the Ohio State Buckeyes 2-1 to win the finals of the 2007 College Cup; Whereas, in the 11th minute, Demon Deacon goalkeeper Brian Edwards blocked a close-range shot and defender Lyle Adams cleared the net to prevent the Buckeyes from attempting to score on the rebound; Whereas Brian Edwards was named the Most Outstanding Defensive Player at the College Cup after making 12 saves in the NCAA Championships and allowing only two goals in five postseason games; Whereas, in the very next possession, Ohio State's Roger Espinoza scored in the 13th minute; Whereas Marcus Tracy had the tying goal in the 66th minute, his third of the 2007 College Cup, finishing a run from sophomore Cody Arnoux; Whereas Zack Schilawski scored the game-winning goal in the 74th minute by taking a cross from Marcus Tracy and firing the center shot from 10 yards out; Whereas for seniors Julian Valentin, Pat Phelan, Brian Edwards, and Alimer Gonzales, the game marked the end of their college careers; Whereas Marcus Tracy was named the Most Outstanding Offensive Player at the College Cup after scoring both goals in the 2-0 semifinal win over Virginia Tech, scoring the game-tying goal in the finals against Ohio State, and assisting on the game-winning goal by Zack Schilawski; Whereas Sam Cronin, Zach Schilawski, and Cody Arnoux were all named to the College Cup All-Tournament Team; Whereas Wake Forest was represented on the National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSAA)/Adidas All- America team by defender Pat Phelan (first team), midfielder Sam Cronin (second team) and forward Cody Arnoux (third team), and was the only school to have a representative on the first, second, and third All-America teams; Whereas defender Julian Valentin was named to the All-Senior All-America team sponsored by Lowe's; Whereas Wake Forest's run to the national championship included a second round win over Furman (1-0), a third round win over West Virginia (3-1), a quarterfinal round win over Notre Dame (1-0), and a semifinal round win over Virginia Tech (2-0); Whereas Wake Forest finished with a 22-2-2 record on the season; Whereas Wake Forest was the number two seed in the tournament and making its second consecutive College Cup appearance; Whereas the Demon Deacons have been to 12 NCAA Tournaments including seven straight; Whereas Wake Forest was ranked first or second in the major soccer polls for the vast majority of the 2007 regular season; Whereas the NCAA title is the eighth national championship for Wake Forest athletics; and Whereas the university also holds three titles in field hockey (2002, 2003, 2004), three titles in men's golf (1974, 1975, 1986) and a title in baseball (1955): Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) applauds the Wake Forest University Demon Deacons men's soccer team for its historic season and championship title; (2) recognizes the hard work and preparation of 6 the players, head coach Jay Vidovich, and the assistant coaches and support personnel who all played critical roles in this championship; and (3) requests the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of the resolution to— (A) Dr. Nathan 0. Hatch, President of Wake Forest University; (B) Ron Wellman, Director of Athletics at the University; and (C) Jay Vidovich, Head Coach.
12.19.2007	12.19.07 Burr, Dole Resolution Commending Appalachian State’s National Championship Passes Senate Senate resolution honors third straight title for Mountaineers The U.S. Senate last night passed a resolution commending the Appalachian State University Mountaineers for their third straight national title in the Division 1 Football Championship Subdivision. Senators Burr and Dole sponsored the Senate measure. The Mountaineers beat the University of Delaware 49 to 21 at Finley Stadium in Chattanooga, Tennessee on December 14. Appalachian State is the only team to win three straight Football Championship Subdivision titles. The resolution was unanimously approved by the Senate on Tuesday night. Text of the resolution is below: IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES Mr. BURR (for himself and Mrs. DOLE) submitted the following resolution; RESOLUTION Commending the Appalachian State University Mountaineers of Boone, North Carolina, for winning the 2007 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division 1 Football Championship Subdivision (formerly Division 1-AA) Championship. Whereas, in 2005, Appalachian State University became the first team from North Carolina to win a National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) football championship with its victory over the University of Northern Iowa; Whereas, in 2006, Appalachian State University defeated the University of Massachusetts football team to win its 2nd straight championship; Whereas, in December 2007, the Appalachian State University Mountaineers won their 3rd straight NCAA Division 1 national title by winning the Division 1 Football Championship Subdivision (formerly known as the Division 1- AA Championship), the first Football Championship Subdivision team in history to accomplish this feat, beating the University of Delaware (Delaware) Blue Hens by a score of 49-2 1; Whereas, in the 2007 championship game, senior tailback Kevin Richardson opened the scoring with a 19-yard touchdown reception on a screen pass from Armanti Edwards; Whereas Delaware responded by driving the ball to the Appalachian State 1-foot line, where the Mountaineers stonewalled the Blue Hens with an impressive defensive stand; Whereas, on the ensuing possession, sophomore Devon Moore extended the lead to 14-0 in a touchdown run that capped a 5-play, 99-yard drive to set an Appalachian State school record for longest scoring drive; Whereas Appalachian State extended the lead to 21-0 with 10:22 remaining in the 2nd quarter as freshman tight end Daniel Kilgore recovered a fumble in the endzone for the touchdown as the Mountaineers scored on their 1st 3 drives of the game; Whereas Delaware broke into the scoring column with only 1:10 remaining in the 1st half, in a play that was originally ruled incomplete, but upon official review was ruled a touchdown to cut the Appalachian State lead to 21-7; Whereas Appalachian State answered the score 26 seconds later as Armanti Edwards threw a 60-yard touchdown pass to senior Dexter Jackson, in his 4th touchdown pass this season to Dexter Jackson for more than 59 yards; Whereas Appalachian State opened scoring in the 3rd quarter to extend their lead to 35-7; Whereas Delaware countered to cut the Appalachian State lead to 35-14; Whereas Kevin Richardson then ran the lead to 42-14 with a 6-yard touchdown for his 2nd score of the game, in which he posted a total of 111 yards rushing and 27 yards receiving with touchdowns both on the ground arid by air; Whereas Kevin Richardson is Appalachian State's all-time leading rusher, closing his college career with 4,797 yards on the ground; Whereas sophomore quarterback Armanti Edwards had 198 yards passing, 89 yards rushing and 3 passing touchdowns, and finishes the season with 1,948 yards passing and 1,587 yards rushing, falling just short of becoming the 1st player in NCAA history to pass for 2,000 yards and rush for 1,000 yards twice in his career; Whereas Corey Lynch finishes his career with 52 pass breakups, capturing the NCAA Division I record for career passes defended; Whereas the team's championship victory finished off a remarkable season for the Mountaineers, who, on September 1, 2007, in their 1st game of the 2007 season, beat the University of Michigan Wolverines, ranked 5th nationally at the time, by a score of 34-32 in front of 109,000 spectators at "The Big House" in Aim Arbor, Michigan, marking the 1st time a Division 1-AA team has ever beaten a nationally ranked Division 1-A team; Whereas the Mountaineers finished off this impressive 2007 season with a 13-2 record; Whereas the Appalachian State Mountaineers 2007 All-Americans include Kerry Brown, Corey Lynch, Kevin Richardson, Armanti Edwards, Gary Tharrington, and Jerome Touchstone; and Whereas the Mountaineers enjoy widespread support from their spirited and dedicated fans as well as the entire Appalachian State University community: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) applauds the Appalachian State University Mountaineers football team for its historic season and National Collegiate Athletic Association Division Football Championship Subdivision title; (2) recognizes the hard work and preparation of 7 the players, head coach Jerry Moore, and the assistant coaches and support personnel who all played critical roles in this championship; and (3) requests the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of the resolution to— (A) Dr. Kenneth E. Peacock, Chancellor of Appalachian State University; (B) Charles Cobb, Athletic Director of the University; and (C) Jerry Moore, Head Coach.
12.18.2007	12.18.07 Burr Celebrates Anniversary Of Pandemic And All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA) Visit To Department Of Health And Human Services Marks Anniversary Senator Richard Burr toured the Secretary's Operation Center (SOC) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in Washington, DC today to celebrate the one year anniversary of the enactment of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA) (P.L. 109-417). The SOC serves as the central point of communication and coordination for the Secretary of Health and Human Services in responding to disasters, emergencies, and ongoing health threats such as bird flu. The tour was led by RADM Craig Vanderwagen, Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at HHS, a position created in PAHPA. "I am pleased to see some great progress has been made a year after PAHPA was enacted, and I'm glad our efforts are producing some promising results," Burr said. "Improving public health emergency coordination is very important. In North Carolina, the progress made by the Division of Public Health and groups like WakeMed show that state, local and private entities can better protect the public's health in future emergencies." "We have done some amazing things here at HHS as a result of the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Act," Vanderwagen said. "We're cutting new ground and we're seeing the future developing in front of our eyes." On December 19, 2006, the President signed into law the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (P.L. 109-417) after thirteen public hearings and roundtables chaired by Senator Burr, including one in New Orleans, Louisiana. By building on the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina and the attacks on September 11, 2001, this law improves the nation's public health and medical preparedness and response capabilities for emergencies. PAHPA empowers the Department of Health and Human Services to protect the public more effectively and efficiently by responding to public health emergencies with a clear line of authority from local to state to federal officials. It also speeds up the development of drugs and vaccines to protect the American people from health emergencies by establishing the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). "I believe we are better prepared than we were in 2001 to face future threats. It is critical we provide HHS with the necessary resources necessary to continue to get the job done," Burr said.
12.18.2007	12.18.07 Burr Applauds Passage Of Veterans Benefits Legislation Act Enhances Benefits Afforded To Blind Veterans Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded Senate passage of the Blinded Veterans Paired Organ Act of 2007 (H.R.797) which makes it easier for veterans who are legally blind to qualify for additional disability compensation payments. It also provides the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with more authority to issue headstones and grave markers, extends the VA's work study program for veterans, and provides states with federal assistance in maintaining their veterans' cemeteries. The legislation passed the Senate by unanimous consent Monday night. The measure passed the House of Representatives in March and will now go to the President for his signature. "I applaud the Senate for passing this important piece of veterans' legislation." Burr said. "Changing VA's disability policy will greatly benefit veterans blinded during their military service. I am also pleased state veterans' cemeteries will receive greater federal assistance. This legislation will help honor our veterans by ensuring their final resting places are properly maintained." H.R. 797 changes the VA's vision standard to qualify for disability benefits, which currently requires visual acuity of 5/200 or less. The bill modifies this standard to 20/200 or less, which conforms to the benchmark of the American Medical Association, the Social Security Administration, and all 50 states. The measure also enhances the VA's authority to reimburse state veterans' cemeteries and provide government headstones and markers to veterans interred in private cemeteries. Under the legislation, veterans buried in a private cemetery may receive a government headstone or medallion or other appropriate marker to indicate their military service. The bill provides for the maintenance of state veterans' cemeteries by authorizing $5 million to cover their expenses and removing some state reimbursement requirements.
12.14.2007	12.14.07 Burr Pleased By Confirmation Of North Carolina Judicial Nominee Tom Schroeder Confirmed To Be U.S. District Judge U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the Senate's confirmation of Thomas Schroeder to serve as U.S. District Court judge for the Middle District of North Carolina. President George W. Bush nominated Schroeder on January 9, 2007. The Senate unanimously approved Schroeder's nomination today. "I would like to commend my Senate colleagues for confirming Tom Schroeder," Burr said. "Tom Schroeder's professional experience and excellent legal knowledge will make him an outstanding District Court judge, and I know he will serve North Carolina well." Schroeder currently is a partner at Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge, and Rice, PLLC in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Schroeder has extensive legal experience serving as both a trial and appellate counsel. He has practiced law in fourteen states and argued before three federal Circuit Courts and the North Carolina Court of Appeals. Schroeder received his bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and was awarded his law degree from the University of Notre Dame Law School.
12.14.2007	12.14.07 Burr Praises Senate Confirmation of Dr. James Peake Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today praised his Senate colleagues for acting quickly to confirm Dr. James Peake to serve as U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA). The nomination was approved by the Senate tonight by unanimous consent. "I am very pleased the Senate took quick action to confirm Dr. Peake to serve as Secretary of Veterans Affairs," Burr said. "Dr. Peake told me that he can think of no higher calling than serving the country and caring for veterans. This attitude, combined with his years of service to former servicemembers, will make Dr. Peake a great Secretary of Veterans Affairs. I look forward to working with him on improving the lives of our nations' veterans," Burr added. Peake is a 1966 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, and began his career as an infantry officer. He served as a platoon leader in Vietnam with the 101st Airborne Division. For his efforts under fire, he was awarded the Silver Star, a Bronze Star with Valor and two Purple Hearts. After Vietnam, he attended Cornell University Medical College and became board certified in general and thoracic surgery. In 2000, Dr. Peake was nominated as the 40th Surgeon General of the Army and as Commander of the United States Medical Command. In 2004, he joined Project Hope, a non-profit international health foundation with offices and programs in more than 30 different countries on five continents. He is currently the Chief Medical Director and Chief Operating Officer at QTC Management.
12.14.2007	12.14.07 Burr Lauds Accomplishments For Veterans In Defense Authorization Conference Report Includes Several Provisions For Veterans Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member on the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, praised today's passage of the conference report to H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. The conference report contains a number of provisions that help veterans, including enhanced education benefits and expansion of health services for veterans with traumatic injuries and their families. "The Defense Authorization Act touches on a number of important issues facing our nation's veterans, and I am pleased this report has passed," Burr said. "Our wounded warriors deserve the best care and treatment our nation can provide them, and this bill works in several ways to help make their lives better. I am especially pleased that the bill takes a measured step towards implementing the Dole-Shalala Commission's recommendation to streamline the disability evaluation process within the Defense Department. I hope we can build on this progress when the Congress reconvenes in January." The conference report specifically provides enhancements to education benefits, primarily for members of the National Guard and Reserves who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan. It allows for them to receive maximum education benefits after three total years of active duty service and to participate in the "buy-up" program that can provide up to $5,400 more in benefits. The report provides important improvements for veterans with traumatic brain injury (TBI). It requires the VA to develop individualized rehabilitation and reintegration plans for all patients with TBI and requires the VA to develop a program of long-term care for post-acute TBI rehabilitation, whether that care is provided through VA or through private entities. It also requires the VA to conduct TBI research and establish a Traumatic Brain Injury Veterans Health Registry. It also provides an extension of eligibility to receive priority access to VA healthcare from two to five years following separation from the military for combat veterans serving in the War on Terror. Wounded Warrior provisions in the report includes the requirement for DOD and VA to jointly develop a comprehensive policy on the care and transition of recovering veterans and requires both departments to standardize the medical evaluation board and physical evaluation board process. Both departments will continue to develop a coordinated electronic health record system and will create an interagency office to facilitate the new health records, which will allow for better communication between the departments when handling important health records.
12.14.2007	12.14.07 Burr Votes To Support North Carolina’s Livestock And Poultry Farmers Burr hopeful livestock and poultry provision will be fixed in conference Senator Richard Burr today voted against the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007 (H.R.2419) because the legislation contained provisions that would harm North Carolina's livestock and poultry farmers. The bill prohibits meat packers from owning livestock and poultry or joining in price agreements with farmers for future sale. This provision would bring a great deal of instability to North Carolina's agriculture industry, since livestock and poultry farmers would have to sell their animals at market rather than negotiating set prices with meat packers. "I was very happy with many parts of this bill, including sections dealing with specialty crop funding, forestry and conservation, renewable energy, and subsidy reforms," Burr said. "However, I am concerned this bill could hurt North Carolina's livestock industry by restricting the relationship between meat packers and livestock and poultry farmers. I am hopeful this issue can be fixed during conference with the House of Representatives and I can ultimately support this bill," Burr added. Many livestock and poultry farmers contract with meat packers for future sale of animals at a predetermined price. This allows the farmers to budget their income with greater certainty rather than taking their livestock or poultry to market with no contract. Farmers use these agreements to secure financing and predict employment needs, giving farmers job security. This legislation would prohibit farmers and meat packers from engaging in these contracts. North Carolina's livestock and poultry industry is one of the largest in the nation. The state is home to over 800,000 heads of cattle, 9.5 million hogs, and 19 million chickens. It is estimated that North Carolina's pork industry is responsible for over 25,000 jobs in the state.
12.14.2007	12.14.07 Senate Passes Burr’s Chimpanzee Protection Bill Legislation would protect retired chimpanzees in sanctuary The Senate approved Senator Richard Burr's chimpanzee protection bill, S.1916. The legislation amends the Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Maintenance, and Protection Act of 2000 (CHIMP Act) which established Chimp Haven in Keithville, Louisiana. The haven was created to house chimpanzees retired from federally-sponsored research labs. The measure precludes the National Institutes of Health from using retired chimpanzees for further medical research. Animals are chosen for retirement based upon research needs and their health status. The bill passed the Senate on Thursday evening. "I am pleased the Senate passed this bill," Burr said. "Chimp Haven is home to over a hundred chimps which have furthered American medical knowledge. These animals deserve permanent protection and this bill will ensure retired chimps will no longer be called back for additional research," Burr added. Dr. Jane Goodall, who has spent much of her life studying chimpanzees, was pleased to see this legislation pass the Senate. "I want to send a huge thank you to Senator Burr for his leadership on this issue and his compassionate view of our responsibility toward these thinking, feeling creatures," said Dr. Goodall, founder of the Jane Goodall Institute. The CHIMP Act of 2000 authorized $30 million for the construction and operation of the chimpanzee sanctuary system and established a public-private partnership in which other organizations help cover the operating costs. The law restricts the research permitted on retired chimpanzees housed in the sanctuary system to only noninvasive behavioral studies and medical studies based on information gathered during the course of normal veterinary care. But the original law does allow chimps to be removed from the sanctuary for further research if specific criteria are met. Burr's legislation would remove that provision, ensuring chimps retired to Chimp Haven remain safely in the sanctuary.
12.13.2007	12.13.07 Burr Praises Progress in VA Construction Project in Durham Senator Richard Burr today praised the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for moving forward with plans to renovate the Durham VA Medical Center. The VA announced today that it awarded an $8.4 million construction contract for the renovations. The demolition and reconstruction project calls for the construction of three new wards with larger patient rooms and private bathrooms for female veterans. "I am glad this important project is moving forward," Burr said. "North Carolina's veterans population is growing, and the need for larger, updated facilities is obvious. I applaud the VA for taking steps to improve the quality of care for the patients at the Durham VA Medical Center." Totolo/King Joint Venture, a disabled veteran-owned business, was awarded the contract to renovate the over 30,000 square feet of hospital space. The renovation work is scheduled for completion in 2009. The Durham VA Medical Center treated over 46,200 veterans in fiscal year 2007, including 3,565 veterans who recently served in Iraq and Afghanistan. North Carolina is currently home to approximately 750,000 veterans, many of whom receive treatment at one of four VA Medical Centers and six Community-Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOC) located in the state. In addition to these facilities, the VA is planning to build or is currently building additional CBOC facilities in Charlotte, Franklin, Hamlet, Hickory, and Wilmington. Burr serves as ranking member on the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
12.13.2007	12.13.07 Burr Applauds Committee Approval of VA Nominee Urges quick consideration of nominee by full Senate Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today applauded the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs for unanimously approving the nomination of Dr. James Peake to serve as U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs. The vote took place today in a special session of the committee held off the Senate floor. "Dr. Peake has spent most of his life caring for military personnel," Burr said. "Dr. Peake's service record and personal dedication to veterans make him very qualified to serve as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. I urge quick consideration of this nomination by the full Senate so we can ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs has a leader," Burr added. Peake is a 1966 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, and began his career as an infantry officer. He served as a platoon leader in Vietnam with the 101st Airborne Division. For his efforts under fire, he was awarded the Silver Star, a Bronze Star with Valor and two Purple Hearts. After Vietnam, he attended Cornell University Medical College and became board certified in general and thoracic surgery. In 2000, Dr. Peake was nominated as the 40th Surgeon General of the Army and as Commander of the United States Medical Command. In 2004, he joined Project Hope, a non-profit international health foundation with offices and programs in more than 30 different countries on five continents. He is currently the Chief Medical Director and Chief Operating Officer at QTC Management.
12.05.2007	12.05.07 Burr Opening Statement On the nomination of Dr. James Peake to serve as Secretary of the Veterans Administration Good morning, Mr. Chairman, my colleagues. I thank you for scheduling this hearing in a very timely manner to consider the nomination of General James Peake to the secretary of veterans affairs. A number of my colleagues have said on this panel that it's important, especially now, to have a permanent leader at the helm of the Veterans Administration. With that in mind, I hope this committee can schedule a markup as soon as possible after this hearing. I think we can move this nomination to the floor and hopefully quickly have a confirmed leader at the helm of the Veterans Administration. General Peake, I've examined your application. I've examined carefully the committee papers. I'm convinced that you've really prepared for this job for a lifetime. In fact, I don't think you could have been better prepared for this job if you had actually planned it for a number of years. Your dedication to service to this nation in uniform goes back to 1962, when you entered the military at West Point. After graduating from West Point, you led troops into battle in combat in Vietnam. There you were wounded not once, but twice. Your bravery, your valor have been recognized with military medals and commendations too numerous to mention, but I will highlight just a few: two Distinguished Service Medals, the Silver Star, the Bronze Star for Valor and two Purple Hearts. Of course, if your attendance at West Point and your dedicated combat service were not enough, you decided not only to stay in uniform, but to go to medical school and to serve an additional 32 years in the military as a physician. Today, you're a board-certified thoracic surgeon, a fellow of both the American College of Surgeons and the American College of Cardiology. Your dedication to duty and medical skills were obviously no secret to your fellow medical colleagues or senior military leaders. In 2000, you were selected to be the Army's 40th surgeon general. Those experiences alone, in my mind, qualify you for this job. You understand life as a soldier on the ground. You've experienced the challenges of recovery from wounds suffered during war. And you've led the next generation of men and women who follow you into service. Mr. Chairman, the V.A. is an agency dedicated to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphans. I believe we found a man to lead the V.A. who not only understands combat service, the needs of our injured military personnel and America's veterans, but a man who has spent the better part of his life taking care of those men and women and, more importantly, their families. Dr. Peake, I fully intent to support your nomination to be the next secretary of veterans affairs. And it is my deep hope today that every one of my colleagues on this panel will, in fact, show their support, and we will act very quickly. Senator Dole, I welcome you today, and thank you for the introductions. And I know Senator Inouye will be here. Mr. Chairman, I thank you for this hearing and for an expeditious consideration of General Peake's nomination.
12.04.2007	12.04.07 Dole, Burr and Easley to Navy: OLF Must Have Local Support Senators and Governor press Navy to address economic benefits issue U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr and North Carolina Gov. Mike Easley today wrote to Secretary of the Navy Donald Winter to reiterate their position that the general support of the local population is essential for locating an outlying landing field in North Carolina, and to press the Navy to identify potential economic benefits to affected communities. "The Washington County site is universally opposed and should not be considered as a viable option," wrote Dole, Burr and Easley to Winter. "In addition, residents in Gates and Camden Counties have been unequivocal, especially given the burden to economic benefit ratio, in their opposition to an OLF. We take the position that if an outlying landing field were to be located in North Carolina, the Navy must work more effectively to secure the general support of the local population, and we see little purpose in your pending announcement of a narrowed list unless the issue of economic benefits for the affected communities is squarely addressed."
11.21.2007	11.21.07 Burr: We Have Many Reasons To Be Thankful As we approach Thanksgiving this year, we have much to be thankful for. Our freedom and economic prosperity continues to offer opportunity for our citizens, and through education and hard work, we're continuing to grow our economy. As we gather to be with our friends and family, it is good to remind ourselves of the many reasons to be thankful. Unfortunately, for many families, there are empty seats at the Thanksgiving table this year. Today, America's Armed Forces are continuing to fight the War on Terror, both in Iraq and Afghanistan, and many of them are unable to spend Thanksgiving at home. We thank them for their service, not just on Thanksgiving, but every day of the year. We also send our prayers to those families who have lost a loved one. In this season, it is also good to remember those who need a helping hand. Each year, volunteers assist the homeless and others in need and they spread a message of hope through their good work. This year, whether you are with family and friends sitting around the dinner table, with fellow soldiers on the battlefield, or with volunteers helping neighbors, my family and I wish you all a safe and wonderful Thanksgiving.
11.16.2007	11.16.07 Burr Praises Renaming of Asheville Veterans Center Presidential signature officially designates medical center The President yesterday signed H.R. 2546, an act designating the Asheville VA Medical Center as the Charles George Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. According to the legislation, this designation became effective as soon as the President signed the bill into law. The measure passed the Senate on November 1. The bill was passed by the House of Representatives in June. "I am pleased the Asheville VA Medical Center will bear the name of a North Carolina hero," Burr said. "The story of Charles George is one of courage and valor and I hope this designation will remind everyone of the sacrifices our nation's veterans, and in particular Private George, have made for our country." Private First Class Charles George was born on the Cherokee Indian Reservation in North Carolina to Mr. and Mrs. Jacob George in 1932. George served with Company C, 179th Infantry Regiment, 45th Infantry Division of the U.S. Army during the Korean War. George received the Medal of Honor for his heroic performance during a late night raid in Korea. During the operation, his unit suffered several casualties by enemy gunfire and mortars. George and two other soldiers were providing cover for troop withdrawal when an enemy soldier threw a grenade into their trench. George shouted a warning to one comrade, pushed another soldier out of danger and jumped on the grenade. Although seriously wounded he did not cry out, saving his comrades from being detected by the enemy. He was evacuated to a forward aid station and died shortly thereafter. Private First Class Charles George was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor on March 18, 1954. The medical center serves veterans in western North Carolina and portions of South Carolina, Tennessee, and Georgia.
11.15.2007	11.15.07 Burr, Dole Introduce Bill To Expand Pisgah National Forest Legislation would provide trail access to Catawba Falls Senators Richard Burr and Elizabeth Dole introduced legislation today that would authorize the forest service to acquire twenty-three acres of land near Catawba Falls and the Pisgah National Forest. Congressman Heath Shuler recently introduced companion legislation in the house. Purchasing the property would allow the Forest Service to open a public trail to Catawba Falls. The land would be acquired from the Foothills Conservancy of North Carolina, who purchased the property in July using private funds. "North Carolina's public lands are some of our state's greatest assets," Burr said. "The Pisgah National Forest provides tremendous environmental and economic benefits to McDowell County. Providing trail access to Catawba Falls will drive tourists to the area and allow North Carolinians to enjoy the beauty of their state." "I am pleased to join efforts with Richard Burr to make Catawba Falls more accessible to the public," said Dole. "Not only will opening a public trail enable more people to enjoy the natural splendor of the falls, but it also will benefit the local economy by increasing tourism and recreation opportunities." "The acquisition of this land will provide tremendous recreation benefits to the people of Western North Carolina and all Americans. Access to Catawba Falls and increased recreational opportunities will also promote our local economy and businesses through increased tourist dollars," Rep. Shuler said. The Pisgah National Forest, established in 1916, contains over 519,000 acres of North Carolina land. Catawba Falls, located within Pisgah National Forest, was previously inaccessible because access to the falls was blocked by private land.
11.15.2007	11.15.07 Burr, Dole Introduce Bill To Study Perquimans River Report is first step towards federal protection of the waterway Senators Richard Burr and Elizabeth Dole introduced legislation today that begins the process of providing the Perquimans River with federal protection. The Perquimans River Wild and Scenic Study Act of 2007 would authorize the National Park Service (NPS) to study the Perquimans River and its tributaries to determine if the waterway qualifies for Wild and Scenic designation. The designation would not affect private property rights or re-zone any land around the river. "As North Carolina continues to see unprecedented growth, it is vital we work to preserve our natural resources," Burr added. "This legislation is the first step to ensuring future generations enjoy the Perquimans River just as we do today." "The Perquimans River is a North Carolina treasure that should be protected," said Dole. "I am pleased to join efforts with Richard Burr to ensure that the river's natural beauty and resources are preserved." The Perquimans River is a tidal estuary based entirely in Perquimans County. The thirty mile, slow-moving river is widely known for its beauty and is an important tourist attraction for the area. Once the National Park Service submits the results of the study to Congress, further legislation will be needed to complete the designation process.
11.14.2007	11.14.07 Dole, Burr to Easley: Seeking more potential OLF sites not the right course of action U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today responded to North Carolina Governor Mike Easley regarding his letter about the outlying landing field and the OLF Study Group's findings. "While we agree with your assessment that North Carolina residents and officials in potentially impacted areas are overwhelmingly opposed to an OLF, we disagree with your view that the best course of action is now for the congressional delegation to recommend that the Navy develop yet another list of potential locations - in addition to the 21 sites it is currently considering for an OLF," wrote Dole and Burr. "This collaborative effort between your administration and the Navy produced six new proposals for OLF sites. As we expected, these sites have been rejected by residents and local officials. We believe your Administration should continue its work with the Navy to come up with a site that has the support of the local community and meets the needs of the United States military. This lengthy process has been difficult on many North Carolinians, and we hope you would agree that our state is best served by a timely resolution to this matter." Click here to read the letter Senators Dole and Burr sent to Governor Easley.
11.14.2007	11.14.07 Text of Letter to Governor Easley Dear Governor Easley, Thank you for writing to us concerning the Navy's proposed outlying landing field and the conclusions of the Study Group you commissioned earlier this year. While we agree with your assessment that North Carolina residents and officials in potentially impacted areas are overwhelmingly opposed to an OLF, we disagree with your view that the best course of action is now for the congressional delegation to recommend that the Navy develop yet another list of potential locations-- in addition to the 21 sites it is currently considering for an OLF. Last spring, public meetings in eastern North Carolina clearly demonstrated that most residents have well-founded concerns that an OLF would dramatically change the character of their communities, affect the local economy and impact quality of life. And, as you know, both of us opposed the Site C for an OLF because we believe the local communities could not support the proposed site. In response to the opposition to Site C, you volunteered to work personally with the Navy to develop potential alternate sites, using new selection criteria. This collaborative effort between your administration and the Navy produced six new proposals for OLF sites. As expected, these sites have been rejected by residents and local officials. We believe your Administration should continue its work with the Navy to come up with a site that has the support of the local community and meets the needs of the United States military. This lengthy process has been difficult on many North Carolinians, and we hope you would agree that our state is best served by a timely resolution to this matter.
11.14.2007	11.14.07 Burr Lauds Committee Passage Of Legislation to Improve Veterans’ Health Care U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, applauded the committee's passage of several pieces of legislation addressing veterans' health care needs. "I'm glad the Committee focused its attention today on the health care needs of our nation's veterans," Burr said. "In particular, I am proud to cosponsor the mental health bill that passed the Committee today," he added. The Mental Health Improvements Act of 2007 (S. 2162), is designed to improve the treatment and services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health issues, and to provide assistance for research on those disorders. It also provides clarification for the VA to provide mental health services to veterans and their families. The committee also considered The Veterans Pain Care Act of 2007 (S. 2160), which focuses attention on the issue of pain management and the needs of our veterans who suffer from debilitating pain, and The Epilepsy Centers of Excellence (S. 2004) and The Veterans Emergency Care Fairness Act of 2007 (S. 2142).
11.02.2007	11.02.07 Sen. Burr Introduces Legislation To Help Medical Students Facing Economic Hardship Restores provision stripped from financial aid legislation Senator Richard Burr today introduced a bill that will help struggling medical students as they get started in their careers. Burr is offering an amendment to the Higher Education Act to restore the 20/220 rule or the medical student loan deferment program. Unfortunately the rule was eliminated in the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (H.R. 2699) and has a negative effect on medical residents and their ability to repay their student loans. The legislation was passed by Congress earlier this year. "Many of our nation's young medical residents rely on the loan deferment program, and I am pleased to offer this bill to restore this needed help as they start their careers," Burr said. Medical residents on average have a student loan debt of $130,571 but make only $43,266 per year. Under the 20/220 rule, students were able to defer payments without accruing interest on their federally-subsidized student loans for up to three years. Qualifications included a debt burden of greater than 20% of their income and their income minus their debt burden was not greater than 220% of the federal poverty level. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, 67% of medical residents qualify for economic hardship deferment under the rule. Congress must act now to reinstate the 20/220 rule permanently to ensure that medical residents not be forced to begin repaying their loans before they have the means to make such payments. "With reports of an impending shortage of physicians, why would we want to make it harder for our nation's best and brightest to enter the medical profession? This bill will give medical students a helping hand as they set out to care for the sick or discover the next medical breakthrough," Burr added. Medical professional groups like the American Medical Association have warned that the higher debt burden these residents will face can deter many from practicing in underserved areas of the country or in medical education and research. With recent reports indicating the United States is facing a shortage of physicians in the future, the elimination of the student loan deferment could further dissuade students from pursuing a career in medicine.
11.01.2007	11.01.07 Sen. Burr Cosponsors Bill Helping To Preserve North Carolina’s Historic Treasures Senator Richard Burr has cosponsored legislation that will help preserve and protect some of North Carolina's cultural and historical treasures. The legislation, the Preserve America and Save America's Treasures Act (S.2262) will make permanent two competitive grant programs - Preserve America and Save America's Treasures. "Many of North Carolina's historic and cultural landmarks benefit from these grants, and I'm glad to support this legislation that will help preserve more of these reminders of our history," said Burr. "Not only are historical artifacts and buildings protected for future generations, but North Carolinians benefit from understanding our rich history and cultural heritage," Burr added. Preserve America encourages and supports community efforts to preserve cultural and natural heritage. Previous Preserve America grants awarded in North Carolina include $29,500 to "Discovering Downtown: Preserving and Promoting Gastonia's Heritage" in Gastonia, North Carolina and $75,000 to the North Carolina State Historic Preservation Office and its project: "Rural Heritage Resources Survey: Northampton, Hertford, Bertie, and Beaufort Counties." The Preserve America grants are available to assist local economies find self-sustaining ways to promote their cultural resources through heritage tourism. For information on how to be designated as a Preserve America community, contact the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation at (202) 606-8503, email achp@achp.gov, or visit www.preserveamerica.gov. The Save America's Treasures program is one of the largest grant programs working to protect our nation's endangered cultural heritage including intellectual and cultural artifacts and historic structures. Since 2000, almost 20 grants have been awarded in North Carolina and close to $4 million in grant money has been used to preserve schools, courthouses and other historical artifacts. Save America's Treasures grants are available for preservation or conservation work on nationally significant intellectual and cultural artifacts and collections and on nationally significant historic properties. Application materials for the FY 2008 grant competition are not yet available. For more information, visit www.nps.gov/history/hps/treasures.
10.30.2007	10.30.07 Senator Richard Burr Welcomes Nomination of Lieutenant General James B Peake (Ret.) M.D. WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, welcomes President Bush's nomination of Lieutenant General James B. Peake (Ret.) M.D. to serve as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. "Dr. Peake's distinguished military and medical career makes him an excellent choice to lead the department tasked with the care of our nation's veterans. He has dedicated his life to the wounded and his unique expertise will ensure our veterans receive the health care and other benefits they deserve," Burr said. "This is a critical time for our veterans and I hope for swift consideration on the nomination of Dr. Peake. I urge my Senate colleagues not to delay; our veterans need this position filled quickly," Burr added. Peake is a 1966 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, and began his career as an infantry officer. He served as a platoon leader in Vietnam with the 101st Airborne Division. For his efforts under fire, he was awarded the Silver Star, a Bronze Star with Valor and two Purple Hearts. After Vietnam, he attended Cornell University Medical College and became board certified in general and thoracic surgery. In 2000, Dr. Peake was nominated as the 40th Surgeon General of the Army and as Commander of the United States Medical Command. In 2004, he joined Project Hope, a non-profit international health foundation with offices and programs in more than 30 different countries on five continents. He is currently the Chief Medical Director and Chief Operating Officer and Chief Medical Director at QTC Management where he serves with former Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony Principi. QTC is currently the largest private provider of government-outsourced occupational health and disability examination services in the nation.
10.24.2007	10.24.07 Burr Speaks in Support of North Carolina Judicial Nominee Thomas Schroeder nominated to serve as U.S. District Court judge in Greensboro U.S. Senator Richard Burr today spoke in support of the nomination of Thomas Schroeder to serve as U.S. District Court judge for the Middle District of North Carolina. President Bush nominated Schroeder for the judgeship on January 9, 2007. Burr delivered the remarks at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the nomination today. "Thomas Schroeder's sharp legal mind and professional experience make him a great candidate for District Court judge. I urge my colleagues to quickly confirm Tom Schroeder to be a United States District Court judge." Thomas Schroeder is a partner at Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge, and Rice, PLLC in Winston-Salem. He has handled many high profile commercial and complex litigation cases across throughout his career. Schroeder had a bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and a law degree from the University of Notre Dame Law School. Schroeder now awaits a vote by the members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. That vote will be reported to the full Senate, who must confirm the nomination before Schroeder can serve as a federal judge.
10.18.2007	10.18.07 Burr Applauds $1.5 Million in Federal Grants for North Carolina's Homeless Veterans Programs (Washington, DC) U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, applauded today the decision by the Department of Veterans Affairs to award over $1.5 million to two faith-based organizations in North Carolina to help provide assistance to homeless veterans. The Department of Veterans Affairs estimates that on any given day, approximately 200,000 veterans are living on the streets or in shelters and as many as 400,000 veterans experience homelessness at some point during the course of a year. "Helping homeless veterans get off the street is crucial and efforts such as those that will be funded under these grants are an important part of the process. I congratulate the leaders of Community Christian Ministry in Asheville and Lutheran Family Services in Dallas for being chosen for funding by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs," Burr said. The Asheville Buncombe Community Christian Ministry will receive $1.6 million and the Dallas-based Lutheran Family Services in the Carolinas will receive $51,669. The Asheville grant will enable the local group to acquire a building at 1329 Tunnel Road, Asheville, that will provide 100 beds for homeless veterans. The grant to the Dallas organization will enable Lutheran Family Services to renovate a building at 842 Dallas-Stanley Highway for transitional housing that will provide seven beds for homeless veterans. Funds will also be used to acquire of a van to provide transportation of homeless veterans to the new building. The National Coalition for Homeless Veterans estimates there are 1,600 homeless veterans in the Tar Heel state. Nationwide surveys have found that almost one-third of all homeless men and women, served in uniform at some point in their lives. The two grants made in North Carolina are part of 46 similar grants that were announced nationwide Thursday by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Earlier this year, Burr introduced legislation to prevent low-income veterans from becoming homeless. The Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act of 2007 (S. 874) was included in S. 1233, which was passed unanimously by the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.
10.17.2007	10.17.07 Sen. Burr Commits to Working on VA Reform Proposals Veteran services and benefits in need of improvement; Panels offer recommendations (Washington, DC) U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the top Republican on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, welcomed recommendations made to the Committee today by organizations on improvements to veteran services and benefits. "I am committed to working with Senator Akaka and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve life for our nation's heroes," said Burr. The North Carolina Republican made his comments at a hearing of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. Its members gathered on Wednesday to review a variety of changes for veterans proposed by four different organizations, including the Presidential Commission led by retired U.S. Senator Bob Dole and former Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala, who testified at the hearing. During the hearing, Burr mentioned the Dole-Shalala Commission has reported that the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Defense have already begun implementing 90 percent of the Commission's recommendations. The remaining 10 percent of the Commission's recommendations remain as "the hard part" Burr noted. "Today's all-volunteer force knows that injury, even serious injury, need not be an impediment to continuing on with a productive, fulfilling life," Burr said. "Our job is to give these brave men and women the tools they need and to remove the stumbling blocks in their way. In fact, they demand that from their government. The challenges facing many veterans today have as much to do with confusing, bureaucratic programs operated by many different offices of the government, as they do with the lack of benefit programs or the lack of resources." The Dole-Shalala Commission's recent report noted that overall spending on veterans and servicemembers has doubled in the past decade. The total cost of these benefits was well over $127 billion in 2006.
10.05.2007	10.05.07 Burr Announces Visits Over October Recess U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Randolph, Albemarle, Stanly, Moore, Guilford, Wake, and Orange counties over October recess. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Wednesday, October 10 12:00 PM Burr to Address the Randolph Rotary Club in Asheboro AVS Catering 2045 North Fayetteville Street Asheboro, North Carolina 2:00 PM Burr to Visit Uwharrie National Forest Eldorado Community Center 4915 North Carolina Highway 109 North Troy, North Carolina 4:00 PM Burr to Visit Carolina Farms in Stanly County 21160 Biles Road Albemarle, North Carolina Thursday, October 11 9:00 AM Burr to Speak With Students at the O'Neal School in Southern Pines The O'Neal School 3300 Airport Road Southern Pines, North Carolina 11:45 AM Burr to Address the Greensboro Kiwanis Club Downtown Marriot Hotel Governor's Room 304 North Green Street Greensboro, North Carolina 3:00 PM Burr to Visit the Guilford Courthouse National Military Park 2332 New Garden Road Greensboro, North Carolina Friday, October 12 7:30 AM Burr to Address the Breakfast Club of Raleigh Brier Creek Country Club 9400 Club Hill Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 9:30 AM Burr to Address the University of North Carolina Board of Governors in Chapel Hill General Administration Building University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 910 Raleigh Road Chapel Hill, North Carolina 1:00 PM Burr to Attend the North Carolina Chamber of Commerce's No Child Left Behind Event in Raleigh 701 Corporate Center Drive Suite 400 Raleigh, North Carolina
10.03.2007	10.03.07 Burr Responds to Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission Report (Washington, DC) U.S. Senator Richard Burr, the lead Republican on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, thanked members of the Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission and said he looks forward to fully reviewing their 500-plus page report, which was released today. "We must always look to improve veterans services and benefits. I take seriously the recommendations of the commission members and hope that Congress and the Department of Veterans Affairs will use this report to help guide meaningful, long-term policies to improve the lives of veterans and their families," Burr said. Commissioners highlighted 14 issues among their 113 recommendations as priority items, including improving the disability claims process, establishing new ways of compensating and treating veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), streamlining the Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs disability evaluation process, and adjusting the amount of compensation veterans and survivors receive when disability and death impact families. The Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission was established by Congress in 2004. Twelve of its thirteen Commission members are themselves veterans and nine of those served in combat. Collectively they have 260 years of military experience, 2 Medals of Honor, 2 Distinguished Service Crosses, 9 Silver Stars, 6 Distinguished Flying Crosses, 5 Bronze Stars for Valor, and 13 Purple Hearts. In July, a nine member Presidential panel led by former U.S. Senator Bob Dole and former Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala called for an overhaul of the disability rating system, creation of recovery plans with recovery coordinators, a new e-Benefits website, and guaranteed care for PTSD from the VA for injured service members from Iraq and Afghanistan. "I look forward to reviewing these reports with my Senate colleagues and continuing our work to care for our nation's veterans," Burr said.
10.02.2007	10.02.07 Burr Calls for Consensus on Future of North Shore Road Without consensus, road agreement is “only fair option” U.S. Senator Richard Burr today called for local communities to reach a consensus on the future of the North Shore Road. Burr's statement comes on the day the Department of the Interior (DOI) released its long-awaited Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), a major milestone in a six-year effort to determine the environmental effects of the planned road. "The Department of the Interior's environmental report on the North Shore Road is another step in this long process," Burr said. "But until there is consensus among the local communities to do anything other than build the road, I believe the existing plan should continue. Right now, there is no clear consensus within Swain County about changing the 1943 agreement, and without all four parties agreeing to a change, the 1943 agreement to build a road is the only fair option," Burr added. The North Shore Road agreement dates back to 1943, when the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) sought to build a dam on the Little Tennessee River. Under the memorandum of agreement, Swain County and the State of North Carolina agreed to give the TVA over 44,000 acres in property. In return for their property, TVA and DOI agreed to construct a road along the north shore of the new reservoir to replace Highway 228, which was flooded as a result of dam construction. The road has yet to be built, leaving the citizens of Swain County uncompensated for their losses.
09.27.2007	09.27.07 Dole, Burr Call for Continuation of Children’s Health Program Reject massive expansion of government-run health care U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today called for a continuation of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), due to expire at the end of this month. SCHIP provides health insurance to low-income children whom do not qualify for Medicaid. North Carolina's SCHIP program, North Carolina Health Choice for Children (NCHC), is widely regarded as one of the most successful in the United States. Dole and Burr today voted to protect the original SCHIP from a massive expansion of government-run health care funded by a tobacco tax hike that would disproportionately affect North Carolina's economy. The legislation would more than double the size of SCHIP, spending $60 billion over the next five years, compared to $25 billion over the same period under current law. The program would add nearly 6 million children to the public dole, half of whom currently have health insurance. The bill would allow illegal immigrants to receive health care under SCHIP in addition to moving many insured, middle-class children into the government-run program. With the President promising to veto the measure, children enrolled in SCHIP will lose coverage less than one hundred hours from now unless Congress and the President can reach a compromise. "North Carolina has a model health insurance program for low-income children, and I do not want Washington politics to prevent their continued coverage," said Dole. "Extending the current program would ensure there is no gap in coverage for these children. With a sustained veto likely, I hope that Congress can come up with an acceptable and fiscally responsible reauthorization that stays true to SCHIP's original intent." "I strongly support continuing the SCHIP program," Burr said. "We cannot allow this highly successful program to be used to force many Americans into a government-run health program. Over 122,000 North Carolina children are counting on SCHIP for health care. SCHIP must continue to help keep low-income children healthy and Congress should fully fund the good work going on in North Carolina and other states." In addition to extending the program, Dole and Burr support improving the SCHIP funding formula, an important priority for North Carolina. NCHC is facing a $16.9 million federal funding shortfall this year. Increasing funding levels and adjusting the funding formula will ensure North Carolina has the money it needs to enroll every qualified child in SCHIP. "I believe that every American deserves access to quality, affordable health care," Burr said. "Instead of moving towards a health care system run by the government, we should work to give every American the ability and resources to control their health care decisions. I will continue working for health care reform that increases consumer choice, lowers costs, and improves the quality of health care available to all Americans." Burr introduced the Every American Insured Health Act in July with Dole and others. The legislation provides an avenue to ensure all Americans have health care coverage thereby reducing the number of uninsured Americans and lowering health care costs for all citizens. The proposal gives every American the right and resources to purchase health care in the free market and encourages individuals to take control of their own health.
09.27.2007	09.27.07 Burr Applauds New VA Clinic in Franklin Facility scheduled to open in mid-2008 U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for beginning construction of a new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Franklin. The clinic will be located in a building donated by retired Gen. F.P. Bodenheimer, Jr. The 7,500 square foot facility is scheduled to open in mid-2008 and will serve the area's 14,000 veterans. "I applaud the Department of Veterans Affairs for improving the lives of Western North Carolina veterans by opening this facility," Burr said. "The VA must respond to North Carolina's growing veterans population by opening new facilities and expanding existing ones. The Franklin CBOC will bring VA services closer to the veterans and enable the VA to treat more veterans than before," Burr added. The new Franklin CBOC will provide primary and preventative health care to an expected 3,800 veterans who would otherwise have to visit the Asheville VA Medical Center. Veterans who visit the Franklin facility will be able to receive physicals, disease screening, patient education, routine lab work, and immunizations. Veterans requiring specialized care will continue to receive treatment at the Asheville VA Medical Center. Burr serves as acting ranking member of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs.
09.19.2007	09.19.07 Burr Speaks in Support of Lumbee Recognition at Senate Indian Affairs Committee Hearing U.S. Senator Richard Burr today reiterated his support for federal recognition of the Lumbee Tribe at a hearing of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. Burr is a member of the committee. "The Lumbee Tribe should receive the full federal recognition they deserve," Burr said. "The Lumbees currently can only be recognized through Congressional action. It is my hope that the Senate will fulfill its commitment to achieve fairness and justice for the Lumbees. I urge my Senate colleagues to pass this legislation and finally resolve this issue." Senator Burr is an original co-sponsor of the Lumbee Recognition Act of 2007 which Senator Dole introduced in the 110th Congress. Similar legislation was introduced in the 108th and 109th Congresses. The bill will provide the Lumbees with long sought-after federal recognition Companion legislation, sponsored by Congressman Mike McIntyre, passed the House on June 7, 2007. Congress recognized the Lumbees in 1956, but that legislation also prevented them from receiving federal benefits. The Lumbee Recognition Act of 2007 would provide the Lumbees with complete recognition and make the tribe eligible for all federal benefits and programs.
09.13.2007	09.13.07 Burr Statement on President Bush’s Address to the Nation U.S. Senator Richard Burr today released the following statement regarding President Bush's address to the nation on the situation in Iraq: "I welcome the President's decision to begin drawing down U.S. forces in Iraq based on the advice of our generals and the success of our troops in ridding Iraq of foreign insurgents. Like all Americans, I want our troops home as soon as possible and I believe the best way to bring stability to Iraq is to continue the fight against al Qaeda and reduce Iran's influence in Iraq. Although long-term success in Iraq depends ultimately on the Iraqis themselves, our success in Iraq will define the security of our nation for generations to come."
09.13.2007	09.13.07 Burr Announces Almost $3 Million for Pitt County Law Enforcement Funds will be used to increase communication between law enforcement agencies U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,977,343 in federal funding for Pitt County law enforcement. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Technology Program, which aims to increase information sharing between local, state, and federal law enforcement. "It is critical that law enforcement agencies are able to quickly communicate with one another," Burr said. "I applaud Pitt County and the Greenville Police Department for taking steps to make their citizens safer." All law enforcement agencies in Pitt County, including state, county, and local offices, will be able to communicate directly with one another once this system is implemented. The system will integrate with North Carolina's statewide VIPER radio system maintained by the state Highway Patrol. The COPS Technology Program provides funds to local law enforcement to be used for the purchase of equipment and software that focuses on data sharing and communications integration. The ultimate goal of the program is to enhance public safety through better communication. Funds provided under the COPS program require a twenty-five percent match from the grant recipient.
09.11.2007	09.11.07 Sen. Richard Burr Chosen to Lead Republicans on Veterans' Affairs Committee (Washington, DC) - Republican members of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs today announced they have chosen Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) as the temporary ranking member of the committee. Burr will temporarily replace Senator Larry Craig (R-Idaho). "I appreciate the confidence my Senate colleagues have expressed in me today. There are almost twenty-five million veterans living in the United States and over 750,000 live in my home state of North Carolina. I am committed to ensuring that veterans across the state and the country receive the best health care and services we can provide," Burr said. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) offers a wide variety of programs and services for the nation's 24.7 million veterans. The majority of VA benefits focus on health care, including mental health, disability, and long-term care services. VA operates major medical centers in Asheville, Durham, Fayetteville and Salisbury. These medical centers served more than 1,294,000 outpatient visits and had 16,568 inpatient admissions in 2005. The VA also operates community-based outpatient clinics in Charlotte, Durham, Greenville, Raleigh, Morehead City, Wilmington and Jacksonville and an outpatient clinic in Winston-Salem. The North Carolina Republican has placed special focus this year on improving life for the nation's estimated 200,000 homeless veterans. In June his Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act of 2007 (S. 874), was approved by the Committee on Veterans' Affairs as part of the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury and Programs Improvement Act of 2007 (S. 1233). Burr's legislation will increase veterans' access to assistance for housing, physical and mental health services, health insurance, as well as vocational and financial counseling. Burr is also active on veterans' health issues. A health care policymaker for over a decade, Burr has most recently been vocal on traumatic brain injury, Department of Defense and VA sharing of electronic medical records and the efficiency of the VA health system, especially for veterans in rural areas. Burr has served on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs since he was sworn in as a U.S. Senator on January 3, 2005. He was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1994 and served five terms before be elected to the U.S. Senate in 2004. In addition to his new leadership position on the Veterans' Affairs Committee, Burr serves on the Senate Intelligence Committee; the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee; the Energy and Natural Resources Committee; and the Indian Affairs Committee. The son of a minister, Richard and his family moved to Winston-Salem, North Carolina, when he was a young child. After graduating from Wake Forest University he rose to a senior sales management position with a wholesale commercial products company before running for Congress. Senator Burr and his wife, Brooke, have two sons in college. ####
09.10.2007	09.10.07 Burr Statement on Petraeus Report U.S. Senator Richard Burr today issued the following statement regarding General Petraeus' report to Congress on Iraq: "I welcome General Petraeus' report. Some progress has been made, but there is room for improvement. The military has had great success in eliminating al Qaeda and other foreign insurgents in Iraq and I believe this represents one of the most effective ways U.S. forces can bring stability to the country. We have seen evidence of this success in al Anbar province where the local population has turned against al Qaeda and has rejected its calls for extremism and there are signs that Diyala province may follow as well. Local leadership now works hand-in-hand with U.S. forces to make al Anbar one of the safest places in the country. "As the stability and security of Iraq has improved there are few signs of the national political progress that many see as pivotal. Little, if any, progress has been achieved by Iraq's elected leadership. It is time to weaken Iran's influence and for Iraqi leadership to do what they were elected to do and lead the country toward reconciliation. "While long term stability in Iraq ultimately depends on the Iraqis themselves, General Petraeus believes we can make more progress and can start reducing troop levels at the end of the year. Like all Americans, I want our troops home as soon as possible. But we have to give our men and women the opportunity to build on their recent successes. I support Petraeus' recommendation to continue our mission in Iraq."
09.10.2007	09.10.07 Dole, Burr Applaud Senate Confirmation of North Carolina Judicial Nominees U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today applauded the Senate confirmation of Martin Reidinger to serve as U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina and William Osteen, Jr. to serve as U.S. District Court Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina. Both men were first nominated by President Bush on September 29, 2006 and approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee on July 19, 2007. "I am delighted that the Senate has confirmed Bill Osteen and Martin Reidinger," said Dole. "These fine North Carolinians are well-qualified for the federal bench, and I am confident that they will serve the people of our state with integrity and distinction." "I am pleased that the Senate confirmed Martin Reidinger and Bill Osteen today," Burr said. "Both men have shown they possess the experience and qualifications to do an outstanding job as federal judges. I look forward to Martin and Bill beginning their service for the people of North Carolina." Martin Reidinger earned both his Bachelor of Arts degree and Juris Doctor from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Mr. Reidinger has lived in western North Carolina for more than 20 years, where he operates a well-respected civil law practice. William Osteen, Jr., earned both his undergraduate and law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has practiced both civil and criminal law in Greensboro for nearly twenty years.
09.06.2007	09.06.07 Burr Applauds Decision to Commission U.S.S. North Carolina in Wilmington Submarine will be fourth Navy ship to bear state’s name U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded the U.S. Navy's decision to commission the U.S.S. North Carolina in Wilmington during the spring of 2008. The newest Virginia class submarine will be able to attack targets ashore with state-of-the-art Tomahawk missiles as well as conduct covert long-term surveillance and reconnaissance and special forces missions. "I am so pleased the U.S.S. North Carolina will be commissioned in North Carolina," Burr said. "The North Carolina name is one rich in history and accomplishment. I look forward to seeing our nation's newest submarine bearing the name of our nation's most military friendly state." Three other Navy ships have borne the state's name. The most recent U.S.S. North Carolina served during World War II and earned twelve battle stars before being retired and moved to Wilmington where it serves as a memorial to soldiers who gave their lives during World War II.
08.20.2007	08.20.07 Burr to Speak at Asheville Federal Grant Workshop Hosting event on federal grants for faith-based and community initiatives U.S. Senator Richard Burr will host a federal grant workshop in Asheville to focus on improving access to federal grants for faith-based and community initiatives. The workshop will be held on Wednesday, August 22, 2007 at 9:00 AM at the Reuter Center at the University of North Carolina at Asheville. Burr will deliver opening remarks to workshop attendees at 9:00 AM. WHO U.S. Senator Richard Burr WHAT Federal Grant Workshop for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives WHEN Wednesday, August 22, 2007 at 9:00 AM WHERE Reuter Center, University of North Carolina at Asheville, Asheville, North Carolina Representatives from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and U.S. Department of Labor, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development will present information at the workshop. "Faith-based and community initiative organizations provide help to those who are most in need. These organizations play crucial roles in making our communities better—especially in areas where the government cannot perform," said Senator Burr. "This workshop will provide faith-based and community groups with a better understanding of the federal grants process so they can continue to make a positive impact on the communities they serve." The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make the state more competitive in the federal arena. In February, Senator Burr hosted an economic development summit on health care in Durham. He also hosted an economic development summit in May for North Carolina's museums and libraries. The seminar is free and open to the public. Pre-registration is requested. North Carolina faith-based and community initiative organization personnel and those who wish to attend the workshop should contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154.
08.20.2007	08.20.07 Burr Announces Visits Events will focus on economic development WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Cherokee, Clay, Graham, Swain, Jackson, Haywood, Madison, Buncombe, Transylvania, Henderson, Polk, Rutherford, and Cleveland counties. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Tuesday, August 21, 2007 8:30 AM Senator Burr to Participate in Check Presentation Ceremony to the West Swain Fire Department West Swain Fire Department 114 Needmore Road Almond, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to Tour Green Energy Park in Dillsboro Green Energy Park 84 Landfill Road Dillsboro, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burt to Visit Ghost Town in the Sky in Maggie Valley Ghost Town in the Sky Administrative Building 16 Fie Top Road Maggie Valley, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to Participate in Check Presentation Ceremony to the Town of Marshall Marshall Town Hall 45 North Main Street Marshall, North Carolina Wednesday, August 22, 2007 9:00 AM Senator Burr to Host Federal Grant Workshop for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives in Asheville The Reuter Center The University of North Carolina at Asheville Asheville, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to Participate in Check Presentation Ceremony to Mountain Housing Opportunities in Leicester Private Residences Overlook Drive Leicester, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to Tour Gaia Herbs in Brevard Gaia Herbs 108 Island Ford Road Brevard, North Carolina 3:30 PM Senator Burr to Tour the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site in Flat Rock Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site 81 Carl Sandburg Lane Flat Rock, North Carolina Thursday, August 23, 2007 8:30 AM Senator Burr to Visit Polk Vocational Service in Columbus Polk Vocational Service 451 Industrial Park Drive Columbus, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to Tour the Timken Company in Rutherfordton The Timken Company 1510 U.S. Highway 221 South Rutherfordton, North Carolina Note: This event is open to the press, but no still or video photography is permitted during the tour. 1:00 PM Senator Burr to Tour Ticona Polymers in Grover Ticona Polymers 2525 Blacksburg Road Grover, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to Tour Ultra Machine and Fabrications in Shelby Ultra Machine and Fabrications 2501 West Dixon Boulevard Shelby, North Carolina
08.17.2007	08.17.07 Protecting America’s Food from Agro-Terrororism By Senator Richard Burr As you read this, the United Kingdom is continuing to respond to a potentially devastating outbreak of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) among cattle. This month's discovery brings back memories of the major outbreak which hit the country in 2001, causing $5 billion in losses to farms and rural businesses and resulted in the slaughter of four million animals. FMD is a deadly, contagious cattle and swine disease. While the disease occurs naturally around the world, the United States has been free of FMD since 1929 when the last of nine outbreaks was eradicated. Thankfully, FMD does not infect humans. But animals in the U.S. are susceptible to FMD viruses. If it reached our shores, the virus could spread rapidly to all regions of the country through routine livestock movement between farms, feedlots, and processing plants unless it was detected early and eradicated immediately. An outbreak similar to the 2001 UK incident could result in economic losses here ranging from $10 to $33 billion through long-term export bans on products, a decrease in tourism from the fear of the disease, and the destruction of animals. If FMD, or another highly contagious disease or pest, was deliberately released in the United States through an act of agro-terrorism, the economic and human health impacts could be far worse. Our agriculture and food system is an important part of our nation's economy and our national security. At $68 billion in revenues each year, agriculture is North Carolina's largest industry. North Carolina is the second largest producer of hogs and turkeys in the nation. We must be prepared to detect, respond to, and recover from a natural or man-made catastrophic animal disease outbreak or food contamination. Our agriculture and food system is vulnerable to attack. Many farms are geographically isolated with few biosecurity measures in place. And livestock is frequently concentrated in confined spaces. For example, 80 to 90 percent of U.S. cattle production is concentrated in less than 5 percent of the nation's feedlots. An attack on just one major livestock production area could begin a devastating domino effect felt through the entire system. I believe the federal government must work more closely with State and local governments and private business to make sure responsibilities are clearly defined and to make certain the right people have the right resources to protect us from, and respond to, an attack. I propose a dedicated national effort - the National Agriculture and Food Defense Act - with the goal of defending our nation and our farms against the potential human health and economic consequences of a natural or man-made catastrophic animal or plant disease, or food contamination. I introduced this legislation in July in the U.S. Senate. This roadmap to prepare for, detect, respond to, and recover from an agro-terror attack or catastrophic food emergency includes five key actions. First, someone must be in charge. In my bill, I identify the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security as the lead coordinator in protecting critical infrastructure and key resources, including the agriculture and food system in a national emergency. The U.S. Secretary of Agriculture would remain responsible for day-to-day oversight of agriculture and certain food products, and would hire a new USDA Under Secretary for Protection, Preparedness, and Response. Food safety standards enforced by the states, the USDA and the Food and Drug Administration would remain in place and would be protected in my legislation. Next, we must establish a coordinated national strategy for protecting our agriculture and food system, including emergency preparedness, detection, response, and recovery goals. Third, we must improve agriculture and food defense capabilities at the State level by providing guidance, assistance, and financial support from the federal government. Fourth, we must enhance public-private partnerships, since the majority of our agriculture and food system is privately owned and operated. Through improved information sharing between government and industry partners, we will be better prepared for potential emergencies. Lastly, we must improve detection and response capabilities. We can speed up detection of animal and food-related emergencies by developing on-site diagnostic tools and integrating nation-wide animal, plant, and food diagnostic laboratory networks. And we must be able to deploy animal vaccines and drugs to an outbreak within 24 hours. The UK's chief veterinary officer has said this is a "crucial week" in the fight against this current FMD outbreak. We all hope and assume the disease will be contained and eradicated. At the same time, we must consider the potential human health and economic impacts of such a naturally occurring or man-made disease outbreak in the United States and make sure we would be able to respond effectively. Senator Richard Burr serves on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee as well as the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. During the previous Congress, Senator Burr authored and passed The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act to improve our public health and medical preparedness for, and responses to, emergencies and disasters. The bill was signed into law in December of 2006.
08.01.2007	08.01.07 Burr Introduces Chimpanzee Protection Bill Legislation would protect retired chimpanzees in sanctuary U.S. Senator Richard Burr today introduced the Chimp Haven is Home Act with Senators David Vitter (R-Louisiana) and Mary Landrieu (D-Louisiana). The act would improve the Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Maintenance, and Protection Act of 2000 (CHIMP Act) which established Chimp Haven in Keithville, Louisiana for chimpanzees no longer needed for research. Burr's legislation would prevent the National Institutes of Health from removing retired chimpanzees from the sanctuary for research purposes. Chimpanzees are currently evaluated based on their health status and carefully selected for retirement from facilities where the chimp population surpasses current research needs. "Chimp Haven provides sanctuary to over one hundred chimps, many of which have been exposed to HIV and hepatitis," Burr said. "This legislation will protect those chimps in their retirement and ensure they will no longer be used for research. Providing these animals with permanent protection will give animal welfare groups and other organizations peace of mind in partnering with Chimp Haven," Burr added. The CHIMP Act of 2000 authorized $30 million for the construction and operation of the chimpanzee sanctuary system and established a public-private partnership in which other organizations help cover the operating costs. The law restricts the research permitted on retired chimpanzees housed in the sanctuary system to only noninvasive behavioral studies and medical studies based on information gathered during the course of normal veterinary care. But the original law does allow chimps to be removed from the sanctuary for further research if specific criteria are met. Burr's legislation would remove that provision, ensuring chimps retired to Chimp Haven remain safely in the sanctuary.
08.01.2007	08.01.07 Burr Votes Against “Misguided” Tobacco Legislation Bill would require FDA to regulate tobacco products U.S. Senator Richard Burr today voted against legislation that would place regulation of tobacco products under the control of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, sponsored by Senator Ted Kennedy (D-Massachusetts) would require the FDA to regulate existing tobacco products and approve any new tobacco product before it could be sold in the United States. The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions approved the bill by a vote of 13 - 8. "I am disappointed this misguided bill passed out of Committee," Burr said. "The FDA is already strapped in making sure drugs, food and medical devices are safe. It does not make sense to redirect the agency from that mission to further regulate tobacco," Burr added. The FDA is currently tasked with assuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and veterinary medical products, foods, and cosmetics. If passed by the Senate, this legislation would redirect scientists away from the agency's core mission of evaluating lifesaving drugs to concentrate on regulating tobacco. With fewer employees to review applications, approval times for medications and medical devices vital to the public health will lag even further behind. "Furthermore, this legislation will not result in a reduced risk cigarette. It will effectively chill the development of new, perhaps reduced risk, tobacco products as the cost and regulatory burden of bringing a new, reduced risk, cigarette to market skyrockets. I support regulations that curtail youth smoking and could have supported legislation to do that." Under the legislation, existing tobacco products will change very little and new products will be required to undergo a government application process. The new regulations would create a complicated regulatory process that will discourage new products from ever reaching the market. Furthermore, the bill would disallow any communication of research before an application is approved, effectively prohibiting any dialogue among consumers, scientists, and manufacturers. "I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to find a practical way to improve tobacco products in a way that makes sense and does not harm North Carolina's farmers," Burr added.
07.26.2007	07.26.07 Republican Senators Introduce “Every American Insured Health Act” Plan would provide access to health insurance for the uninsured, lower costs for all, and increase personal control of health care Today, five Republican Senators introduced the "Every American Insured Health Act" that would provide all Americans - regardless of age, income or employer - with access to affordable, high-quality health insurance through the free market. The bill was introduced by U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and Bob Corker (R-Tennessee) and cosponsored by U.S. Senators Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-Oklahoma), a practicing physician, Mel Martinez (R-Florida), and Elizabeth Dole (R-North Carolina). The plan provides an avenue to ensure all Americans have health care coverage thereby reducing the number of uninsured Americans and lowering health care costs for all citizens. The proposal gives every American the right and resources to purchase health care in the free market and encourages individuals to take control of their own health. Senator Burr: "One of my greatest fears is that continuing high health care costs will force companies to dump their employee health care plans and millions of Americans and their families will be left without health care insurance. We must prevent this dangerous scenario by giving individuals control over their health care so they do not have to rely on their employers or the government for their health care. The 'Every American Insured Health Act' does just that," Burr said. "Personal freedom means owning your own health care without the fear of losing your job, your employer taking your insurance away, or being forced into a government-run health care plan. We encourage all Americans to own their own homes, so why don't we encourage people to own their own health care?" Burr added. "This plan would ensure every American has access to affordable, quality health insurance through the free market. Under this plan, the millions of American who are currently uninsured would have access to coverage in the free market. The 'Every American Insured Health Act' provides every American with a refundable, advanceable flat tax credit of $2,160 per individual and $5,400 per family that gives them the freedom to choose the health care plan that best meets their needs. The plan is budget neutral and puts an end to unfair discrimination in the IRS tax code that only benefits health coverage offered by employers and that disproportionately subsidizes Americans with more costly health plans and with higher incomes," Burr said. "The plan also improves health insurance affordability in state marketplaces by turning patients into shoppers and giving them buying power. As millions of uninsured Americans purchase coverage for the first time, health care costs for all Americans will decline. The 'Every American Insured Health Act' also creates the pathway for statewide insurance pools to reduce costs and help high risk individuals access affordable coverage," Burr added. Senator Corker: "I believe the concept we're introducing with this legislation should be at the center of a meaningful debate on true, broad health care and tax reform," Corker said. "It provides all individuals access to health insurance that is both affordable and portable. It is a stepping stone to what I believe is the right direction for our country - a health care system that provides individuals the ability to purchase health insurance, that is deeply rooted in the private market, and is accessible to all Americans. Hard working families in Tennessee and across our country are without health care coverage because it is simply too expensive, and we have a moral obligation to address this issue now. The concept we're introducing offers one way of addressing a complex problem that deserves vigorous debate in the U.S. Senate." Senator Martinez: "It's time for a major debate on health care insurance. Not enough people have access to affordable healthcare and the Congress has not done enough about this crisis. The bill we're introducing today opens the debate on making health insurance more affordable and accessible to all Americans," Martinez said. "Our aim is to remove inequities in our tax laws and make tax relief for health insurance available to everyone. This reform creates a free market for healthcare and empowers people with the right to choose their own plans. Giving Floridians and all Americans the peace of mind that healthcare is accessible and affordable will be an incredible breakthrough." Senator Coburn: "As a practicing physician, I have seen the inequities of our health care system firsthand. The vast majority of those inequities have been created by third-parties — government and health insurance bureaucrats, and politicians. This plan breaks that cycle by giving patients the right to choose their own plan, their own doctor and their own treatment," Dr. Coburn said. "Supporters of government-run, bureaucratic controlled health care have long advocated using an incremental approach to push all Americans into socialized medicine, beginning with children," Dr. Coburn added. "For example, the proposed SCHIP expansion is a clarion call for government-run, bureaucrat controlled health care. Rather than forcing our children to board a sinking ship, we can allow all Americans to buy their own boat. Our flat tax credit for health care gives every American the freedom to choose the health care plan that works best for them, not the plan that works best for their employer, a government bureaucrat or a politician in Washington," Dr. Coburn said. Key provisions of the "Every American Insured Health Act": 1. Give every American the resources and the right to purchase health care in a free market 2. End the tax code discrimination against those who cannot get insurance through their employer by giving a flat tax break to every American 3. Encourage individuals to take control and become smart about their health insurance 4. Eliminate the current cost shift in the health care market that drives up costs for everyone 5. Ensure peace of mind about affordable, high-quality health insurance for all Americans
07.25.2007	07.25.07 Burr to Serve as Ranking Member on Senate National Parks Subcommittee U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that he will assume the post of ranking member on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks. The subcommittee oversees America's national park system, including national trails, national monuments, and military battlefields. It also manages the Wild and Scenic River System and the Land and Water Conservation Fund. "I am pleased that my Senate colleagues have chosen me to serve as ranking member of the National Parks Subcommittee," Burr said. "The national park system plays an important role in North Carolina life, both as an economic resource and a recreational resource. I look forward to continuing to be an advocate for North Carolina's parks." North Carolina is home to twelve national parks, trails, battlefields, and historic sites totaling more than 394,000 acres, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the Cape Hatteras National Seashore, and the Cape Lookout National Seashore. The next subcommittee hearing will be held on Thursday, August 2, 2007 and will address the National Park Centennial Challenge.
07.24.2007	07.24.07 Burr Applauds Passage of Higher Education Bill Burr amendments included in package U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the passage of S.1642, the Higher Education Amendments of 2007. The bill will ensure parents and students have more extensive information about college tuition and fees, continue support for North Carolina's ten Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and require colleges to establish codes of conduct for student loans. The bill will also promote innovative models for teacher preparation. "I am pleased that the Senate acted quickly today to reauthorize the Higher Education Act and to include amendments I offered to the legislation," Burr said. "To keep a competitive edge in the world economy, America's youth must be prepared for the jobs of today and the future, jobs which increasingly require more than a high school diploma. Furthermore, the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act is important for strengthening the federal investment in North Carolina's colleges and universities." The legislation includes two amendments sponsored by Senator Burr. One amendment would expedite a study on simplifying the FAFSA, the form parents and students must complete to determine eligibility for federal student aid. The current FAFSA asks 127 questions contained on five pages, a form longer than the Income Tax 1040EZ form, which contains 37 questions on a single page. The amendment would require a study group of federal officials and representatives of higher education to submit recommendations for changes to Congress within the next year. This complements the work of a recent task force put together by Erskine Bowles, President of the University of North Carolina, to determine how to simplify the application for financial aid. Burr's other amendment would require those institutions of higher education that prepare future teachers to set annual goals for increasing the number of teachers in shortage areas such as math, science, special education, and instruction of limited English proficient students. It would also require goals for more closely linking the instruction provided by colleges of education to prospective teachers with the needs new teachers face in the classroom. Many elementary and secondary schools lack a supply of qualified teachers. Burr's amendment recognizes that quality teachers are the most important factor to a child's academic achievement and the critical connection between higher education and K-12 education—colleges of education—for improving the supply of qualified teachers. The legislation will also strengthen the GEAR UP and TRIO programs to ensure low-income and first generation college students are prepared to enroll and succeed in college and expand the Academic Competitiveness Grants so that more community college students are eligible.
07.20.2007	07.20.07 Dole, Burr Praise Senate Judiciary Committee’s Approval of North Carolina Judicial Nominees Urge confirmation vote in Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today praised the Senate Judiciary Committee for approving the nominations of Martin Reidinger to serve as U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina and William Osteen, Jr. to serve as U.S. District Court Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina. Both men were first nominated by President Bush on September 29, 2006. "I welcome the committee's approval of these nominations," said Dole. "Bill Osteen and Martin Reidinger will make fine additions to the federal bench in North Carolina. I look forward to working with Richard Burr to push for Senate confirmation of these distinguished nominees." "I applaud the Senate Judiciary Committee for approving these important nominations," Burr said. "Martin Reidinger and Bill Osteen have extensive legal experience and an excellent understanding of the law. I urge my Senate colleagues to quickly confirm these nominees so they may begin to work for the people of North Carolina." Martin Reidinger earned both his Bachelor of Arts degree and Juris Doctor from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Mr. Reidinger has lived in western North Carolina for more than 20 years, where he operates a well-respected civil law practice. William Osteen, Jr., earned both his undergraduate and law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has practiced both civil and criminal law in Greensboro for nearly twenty years.
07.17.2007	07.17.07 Burr Applauds Nomination of Robert Conrad to Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals Senator welcomes additional North Carolina presence on court U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded the nomination of Robert J. Conrad to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Conrad currently serves as a U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina in Charlotte. "Bob Conrad has a long history of public service and an excellent reputation as a knowledgeable and fair judge," Burr said. "North Carolina can be proud of Bob's record as a judge and his integrity. I look forward to Bob's quick confirmation by the United States Senate and to having another North Carolinian on the Fourth Circuit bench." Conrad graduated from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1983 and entered private practice. In 1989 he became an Assistant United States Attorney in Charlotte. President Bush appointed Conrad to serve as United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina in 2001. In 2003, he was nominated by the President for his current job as a federal district court judge. Mr. Conrad has twice been unanimously confirmed by the Senate. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, located in Richmond, Virginia, hears federal appeals from cases filed in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. While North Carolina is the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit, the state can presently claim only one judge on the fifteen judge bench. The nomination will be referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, which is responsible for holding confirmation hearings and reporting nominees to the full Senate.
07.17.2007	07.17.07 Burr, Collins Introduce Agriculture and Food Defense Bill Legislation designed to prepare for, detect, respond to, and recover from an agro-terror attack U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) today introduced the National Agriculture and Food Defense Act of 2007. The bill aims to help federal, state, and local governments work with private business to prepare for, detect, respond to, and recover from an agro-terror attack or deliberate food contamination. "Our agriculture and food system is an important part of our nation's economy and our national security," Burr said. "This legislation will enhance the nation's ability to identify and respond to an agriculture or food emergency. The federal government must work more closely with state and local governments to make sure responsibilities are clearly defined and make certain the right people have the right resources to protect us from, and respond to, an attack. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and I look forward to working on this important national security issue." "Congress has recognized the threats to our seaports, chemical facilities, transportation, and critical infrastructure. We have acted to protect these vital systems that sustain our economy. We must also extend our homeland-security vigilance to the food that sustains our very lives," said Senator Collins. This legislation responds to agriculture and food system vulnerabilities by establishing a roadmap to prepare for, detect, respond to, and recover from an agro-terror attack or catastrophic food emergency by taking five key actions. This legislation would: • Put someone in charge by identifying the Secretary of Homeland Security as the lead coordinator of efforts to protect critical infrastructure and key resources, including the agriculture and food system in a national emergency. The Secretary of Agriculture would remain responsible for day-to-day oversight of agriculture as well as meat, poultry, and egg food products. The Secretary of Health and Human Services would retain responsibility for all other food products. The bill would also establish the Under Secretary for Protection, Preparedness, and Response at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to lead and coordinate USDA activities relating to agriculture and food defense. • Require the development of a national strategy for protecting our agriculture and food system. The Department of Homeland Security, the USDA, and the Department of Health and Human Services would be required to develop a coordinated national plan for agriculture and food emergency preparedness, detection, response and recovery. • Improve food and agriculture defense at the state level by providing guidance, assistance, and financial support from the federal government. • Enhance public-private partnerships. The majority of America's agriculture and food system is privately owned and operated. This legislation authorizes government and private sector coordinating councils to improve information sharing between government and private sector partners. • Authorize and integrate nationwide animal, plant, and food diagnostic laboratory networks to speed up detection of animal and food-related emergencies. To rapidly respond to infectious diseases, the bill would authorize a stockpile of animal vaccines and drugs that can be deployed to an outbreak within twenty-four hours. • Maintain the authority of individual states, the USDA, and the Food and Drug Administration to establish and enforce food safety standards. The nation's agriculture and food system is open, complex, interconnected, and diverse, which makes it a target for terrorist attack. Many farms are geographically isolated and livestock is frequently concentrated in confined spaces. Eighty to ninety percent of U.S. cattle production is concentrated in less than five percent of the nation's feedlots. An attack on just one part of the production process could set off a devastating domino effect felt throughout America's food system, causing economic loss and effects on human health. Studies show a single agro-terrorist attack could cost the American economy up to $33 billion and kill or sicken thousands. The United Kingdom's Foot and Mouth Disease outbreak in 2001 caused approximately $5 billion in losses to that country's food and agriculture sector. Text of the National Agriculture and Food Defense Act of 2007 can be downloaded in PDF format using the link below. http://burr.senate.gov/_files/National_Agriculture_and_Food_Defense_Act.pdf
07.12.2007	07.12.07 Burr Introduces No Child Left Behind Reauthorization Bill improves and strengthens original legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. - U. S. Senator Richard Burr today introduced the No Child Left Behind Act of 2007 with Senator Judd Gregg (R-New Hampshire). This legislation builds on and improves the original No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. The bill preserves the basic tenets of No Child Left Behind while responding to the legitimate concerns parents, teachers, and principles have raised regarding the original legislation. "We must not turn away from what we began when we passed the original No Child Left Behind bill. The stakes are too high for both our children and the nation," Burr said. "In the ever competitive global economy, all our children, not just the lucky or the fortunate, must be equipped with the academic skills needed to succeed. I urge the Senate to pass this No Child Left Behind legislation quickly so that we may once and for all close the achievement gap." The bill maintains the goal that all children will reach grade-level proficiency in reading and math by 2013-2014, keeps in place annual testing in grades 3 through 8 and at the high school level, and maintains an accountability system rooted in state standards and state assessments. The bill's accountability measures remain focused on grade-level achievement in math and reading. Additionally, the bill would streamline the accountability timeline to make it easier for schools to develop and implement plans to improve student achievement and to focus on what matters most—teaching and learning. It would also expand options available to parents and place a greater emphasis on teacher quality. The No Child Left Behind Act of 2007 puts a greater emphasis on high school education and graduation by including the Graduate for a Better Future Act, which Burr introduced earlier this year in response to the nation's high school dropout crisis. Funds from the act will be used to create models of excellence for academically rigorous high schools; implement accelerated academic catch-up programs for students who enter high school behind in skills; put in place an early warning system to quickly identify students at risk of dropping out of high school; and establish programs that offer students opportunities in job-shadowing, internships, and community service so that they are better able to make connections between what they are learning in school and how it applies in the workplace. "To remain competitive in the global economy it is critical that all America's children graduate from high school with the skills to succeed in college and the workforce," Burr said.
07.11.2007	07.11.07 North Carolina Site Selected as Finalist for National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility Lab would have $1.65 billion economic impact U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced that the North Carolina Consortium, headed by the University of North Carolina System and North Carolina State University, has been selected by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as one of five finalists for the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF). If selected, the North Carolina NBAF site will be located in Granville County and will be a next-generation biological and agricultural defense facility. The facility will support the missions of the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in protecting U.S. agriculture from a bioterrorist attack "The National Bio and Agro-Defense facility presents an excellent opportunity for North Carolina to develop economically while improving national security," Burr said. "I look forward to working with the Department of Homeland Security to make sure this facility meets the security needs of our nation's agriculture system. I remain committed to ensuring that North Carolina receives fair and equal consideration in the selection process." "I could not be more excited that North Carolina is on the short list for the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility. I am proud that North Carolina State University put together a first-rate scientific team and a consortium to express interest to the Department of Homeland Security, and I am thrilled that our good friend, Senator Richard Burr helped our team meet with all of the right people in Washington," said Erskine Bowles, President of the University of North Carolina. "The fact that North Carolina is still in the running just goes to show how much respect the federal government has for our universities, our faculty, our training capability, and the many partners that will build a state-of-the-art research facility in Granville County." The NBAF facility will span over 500,000 square feet and employ between 250 and 400 scientists, technicians, and support staff. The Federal contribution is expected to be half a billion dollars invested in site development. The North Carolina Department of Commerce estimates this project would have a $1.65 billion economic impact over the next twenty years. DHS will now conduct environmental impact studies of all five remaining sites and solicit input from the public. A final decision on the location of NBAF is expected in 2008. Other finalists include consortiums from Georgia, Kansas, Mississippi, and Texas.
07.10.2007	07.10.07 Burr Introduces Healthy Start Legislation Bill aims to reduce infant mortality U.S. Senator Richard Burr today introduced the bipartisan Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2007 with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio). The bill reauthorizes the successful Healthy Start program, which supports activities to reduce infant mortality in the United States by addressing the factors that lead to low birth weight and other complications. Healthy Start provides services designed to improve the quality of and access to health care for mothers and infants. This includes outreach, prenatal and postnatal care, health education, and case management. "Healthy Start is a practical government program that saves lives, saves money, and helps to ensure our nation's children have a bright future," Burr said. "When women do not receive adequate prenatal care, they are much more likely to have babies with low birth weights and other health complications. Healthy Start ensures high-risk mothers and babies have the resources they need to begin life in good health." The Healthy Start program has been helping to reduce infant mortality rates in America since the program was first created in 1991. In 1998, only 42% of expectant mothers in the Healthy Start program areas received prenatal care. In 2003, that number reached 72%, an increase of over 70%. Although the Healthy Start program has been largely successful, much work remains to be done. North Carolina has the tenth highest infant mortality rate in the country; 8.35 out of every 1,000 babies born in the state will not live to be one year old, well above the national average of 6.9 deaths per 1,000 births.
06.28.2007	06.28.07 Senator Burr Votes Against Cloture on Immigration Reform Bill U.S. Senator Richard Burr today voted against cloture on S.1639, the Senate immigration reform bill, citing a limited amendment process and insufficient time for debate on the Senate floor. Burr voted against cloture on S.1348, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007, three weeks ago. "I believe immigration reform is a critical issue that deserves a full debate in the Senate," Burr said. "Unfortunately, the Majority Leader has limited debate on this bill to two days and that is just wrong. Many amendments that would have improved this package were disregarded. Americans deserve to see Congress openly and fairly debate immigration reform. The issue is just too important. "This legislation, if passed, would only worsen the immigration crisis our country is now facing. Fixing our broken immigration system should be a top priority. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that if we don't secure our borders, ten million more illegal immigrants will move into the United States over the next twenty years. This bill as currently written will not fix our immigration system. "In the immediate future, we must enforce the laws already on the books. The Senate should pass the reasonable parts of this bill that have broad bi-partisan support."
06.27.2007	06.27.07 Burr’s Veterans Homelessness Bill Approved Today by Veterans Affairs Committee as Part of Comprehensive Veterans Package Today Senator Richard Burr's Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act of 2007, S.874, was approved by the Veterans Affairs Committee as part of the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitation Act of 2007, S.1233. Burr's legislation provides supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. It will increase veterans' access to assistance for housing, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. "We must honor our veterans' service to our country and make certain that these soldiers are not forgotten when they return home," Burr said. "It is deplorable that some of our veterans are homeless and many more live in extreme poverty. This legislation will help to give veterans the benefits they deserve." According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 1.5 million of our Nation's veterans live in poverty. North Carolina is home to over 770,000 veterans. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, it is estimated that there are over 40,000 North Carolina veterans living below the national poverty level. The Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitation Act of 2007 provides and enhances services to treat veterans with traumatic brain injury and expands health services for all veterans. Burr's legislation focuses on the national goal of ending homelessness among veterans and for the first time creates programs designed to prevent veteran homelessness before it occurs. "I hope the U.S. Senate acts quickly to pass this legislation," Burr added. Burr serves on the Veterans Affairs Committee in the U.S. Senate. He originally introduced his Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness legislation in November 2005. The bill was re-introduced in March 2007 for consideration in the 110th Congress.
06.25.2007	06.25.07 Burr Announces $1 Million Federal Grant for Western Piedmont Community College Funds to be used to construct health care training center U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,000,000 in federal funds for Western Piedmont Community College (WPCC) in Morganton. The money will be used to build a new workforce training facility, which will enhance the college's health care education programs. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce through its Economic Development Administration. "I applaud Western Piedmont Community College for taking the lead in preparing Burke County residents for work in our changing economy," Burr said. "These funds will enhance the quality of health care in the area and generate economic growth." "President Bush believes one way to create jobs is to grow the economy by encouraging investments in local communities," said U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Sandy K. Baruah. "This EDA investment will help attract $120 million in private investment and create 220 jobs for local citizens." The million dollar investment will be used to renovate a former manufacturing plant to accommodate WPCC's growing health care education programs. The new facility is expected to train more than 500 students annually in health care occupations, creating 220 jobs and generating more than $120 million in private investment in the region.
06.25.2007	06.25.07 Burr Welcomes GAO Report on Avian Flu Investigation raises concerns about roles and responsibilities U.S. Senator Richard Burr welcomed today the release of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on government efforts to prepare for an outbreak of avian influenza among our nation's birds. The GAO investigation highlights confusion regarding federal roles and responsibilities, which would complicate the response to an avian flu outbreak or a deliberate attack on our agriculture and food system. "The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has made important strides in preparing for a disease outbreak among our nation's poultry. However, much work remains to be done. Our agriculture and food system remains susceptible to an agro-terror attack or an outbreak of infectious disease like the H5N1 avian flu virus. Such an outbreak would have devastating effects on our economy and would threaten human health. "Our nation must work toward a more effective solution to this problem. The GAO report issued today identifies several steps our government can take to protect our animals and our people. The USDA must work more closely with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). All agencies should improve their efforts to coordinate and support States and businesses." The GAO report raises several concerns that must be addressed; specifically: • USDA is not planning for the lead coordinating role that DHS would assume if an outbreak among poultry occurred that is large enough to warrant various federal disaster declarations. GAO's prior work has shown that roles and responsibilities must be clearly defined and understood ahead of time to facilitate rapid and effective decision making. • USDA response plans do not identify the resources required to carry out the response to a large outbreak. • Some State plans lack important components that could facilitate a rapid response to an avian flu outbreak. States are typically the first to respond to such emergencies.
06.19.2007	06.19.07 Burr Praises Creation of National Biodefense Science Board Panel was authorized in Burr’s bioterrorism legislation U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the formation of the National Biodefense Science Board, which will advise the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) on trends, challenges, and opportunities presented by advances in biological and life sciences, including naturally occurring infectious diseases and chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear agents. The board was authorized by Burr's Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (P.L. 109-417), which was signed into law in December of last year. "The creation of this board is a critical step forward in preparing the country for future threats to public health, such as bioterror agents or evolving flu viruses," Burr said. "This group will play a central role in ensuring our government identifies new and emerging threats as well as opportunities for innovation to prevent, prepare, and respond to those threats. By seeking advice and guidance from the best scientists and engineers in the country, the federal government is taking the lead in keeping Americans safe." The board consists of thirteen members who will be appointed by the Secretary. By law, four members must come from academic institutions, four must have a background in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, or device industries, one must represent health care consumers, and one must be a practicing health care professional. The remaining three members are appointed by the Secretary at his discretion.
06.07.2007	06.07.07 Senator Burr Votes Against Ending Debate on Immigration Reform Bill Senator Richard Burr today voted against ending debate on S.1348, the Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Reform Act of 2007, citing insufficient time for amendments to the bill on the Senate floor. Burr voted against immigration legislation in the Senate last year that would have granted amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. "I believe that we should only permit those into our country who respect our laws, our system of government, and way of life. Immigrants should demonstrate their intentions of becoming productive, law-abiding members of our society as a condition for receiving citizenship," Burr said. "I will continue to oppose amnesty for the illegal immigrants living in the United States." "While some aspects of this bill have merit, many important amendments have not been voted on. These common-sense amendments would have saved taxpayers money and improved our border security. We cannot end debate on a critical piece of legislation like this when over one hundred amendments sit without any discussion or vote." Burr voted on several amendments to the bill that would have increased border and national security, including amendments that would bar many criminals from the Z-visa program, increase information sharing between federal and local law enforcement, and improve the location of border fencing. The senator also voted for a more sound fiscal policy, including amendments that would require illegal immigrants to pay back taxes, make illegals ineligible for Social Security benefits on pay they received while working illegally, make temporary workers ineligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit, and require Z-visa holders to purchase private health insurance. Senator Burr also voted to make English the national language of the United States.
05.25.2007	05.25.07 Burr Introduces “Affordable Biologics for Consumers Act of 2007” Bill aimed at improving patients’ treatment options while encouraging innovation U.S. Senator Richard Burr late yesterday introduced the Affordable Biologics for Consumers Act of 2007 with Senators Gregg and Coburn. The bill would establish standards for the approval of biosimilars - biologics that are similar to currently approved biologics. Biologics are products derived from living sources and include vaccines, blood, and gene therapy. Hundreds of such therapies, such as Herceptin and Enbrel, are used by patients throughout the United States today. Currently, there is no clear pathway for the Food and Drug Administration to approve biosimilars. The United States has a robust generics market for drugs, and many individuals are interested in creating a similar market for biologics. "We must establish a clear approval process for this new class of biologics that ensures Americans will have access to additional safe and effective medicines," Burr said. "This bill will encourage development of life-saving therapies by clarifying and streamlining the approval process." The bill establishes an open, public process for adopting rules governing the approval process for biosimilars at the Food and Drug Administration. At a minimum, biosimilar product-class rules will require companies to demonstrate the safety, purity, and potency of the product. The bill also provides for post-market safety monitoring to ensure that side effects are detected and reported. An expert panel of scientists in the therapeutic biologics field will advise the Food and Drug Administration on how to develop these new rules.
05.11.2007	05.11.07 Burr to Sponsor Federal Grant Workshop in Rocky Mount Event to focus on improving access to federal grants for North Carolina’s museums and libraries Senator Richard Burr today announced his office will sponsor a statewide federal grant workshop in Rocky Mount to focus on improving access to federal grants for museums and libraries. The workshop will be held on Monday, May 14, 2007 at 9:00 AM at the Imperial Centre located at 270 Gay Street in Rocky Mount. The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make the state more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's museums and libraries and will include speakers from federal departments. "Museums and libraries are the foundation for learning in every North Carolina community. They enhance educational opportunities, preserve our heritage, and encourage civic participation in the areas they serve," said Senator Burr. "This workshop will provide North Carolina's museum and library personnel with a better understanding of the federal grants process so that they can continue to make a positive impact on those they serve." This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In February, Senator Burr hosted an economic development summit on health care in Durham. This is the second workshop for museums and libraries Burr has sponsored. The first workshop was held in November in Hickory. The workshop is free and open to the public. North Carolina museum and library personnel who wish to attend the workshop may contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154.
05.09.2007	05.09.07 Burr Applauds Senate Passage of FDA Reform Legislation Bill would improve post-approval drug safety U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded the Senate passage of S.1082, the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act of 2007. The legislation included language from the Safer DATA Act, which was introduced by Senators Gregg, Coburn, and Burr. The bill would require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to develop an active surveillance system that would monitor drug utilization and adverse events after a drug has been approved by the FDA. This legislation would also require the FDA to create a "one-stop-shop" web-based portal for drug safety information on FDA-approved drugs. The federal government's commitment to drug safety should not end when a drug is approved by the FDA," Burr said. "This act will ensure that doctors, pharmacists, and patients have the tools they need to prevent bad drug interactions and to report safety concerns that were unknown at the time a drug was initially approved." The government currently operates several web sites with drug safety information. This bill would consolidate all data into one web portal. The portal will include links to non-FDA web sites featuring drug safety information from medical journals and effectiveness studies like the ones conducted by Duke University's Centers for Education and Research on Therapeutics (CERTs). The CERTs program conducts post-market research to optimize the effectiveness and safety of drugs and devices. The web site will also include data from the new active surveillance system, which will provide doctors, pharmacists, and consumers with important information about drug side effects. This bill represents the most comprehensive reform of the FDA since the Food and Drug Administration Regulatory Modernization Act of 1997 (P.L. 105-115). Burr was the sponsor of that legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.03.2007	05.03.07 Burr: Time to Act in Darfur On May 5, the world will recognize the one year anniversary of the signing of the Darfur Peace Agreement by the government of Sudan and the Sudanese Liberation Army. But instead of celebrating an end to the violence and a return of Darfurians to their homes, the killings, rape, and genocide have continued in Darfur. On April 18, President Bush, in remarks at the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., announced new steps the United States is prepared to take if Sudan's President Bashir does not end his government's explicit support for the genocide in Darfur. The President called on Bashir to allow the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers to Darfur, end his government's support for the Janjaweed militia that is carrying out the majority of the attacks, and allow desperately needed humanitarian aid to reach the three million Darfurians who rely on such aid for their daily survival. If Bashir does not do so in a "short period of time," President Bush stated that he will tighten U.S. economic sanctions against Sudan, more aggressively enforce existing sanctions, target sanctions directly at individuals responsible for the violence, and prepare a new UN Security Council resolution addressing the situation. But this is not the first time we have given Sudan an ultimatum. On November 20, 2006, Andrew Natsios, the President's Special Envoy to Sudan, gave Bashir a deadline of January 1, 2007, to take action to admit UN peacekeepers into Sudan or face "Plan B." Four months have passed since that deadline expired, and despite Congressional calls for action, no steps were taken to back up our threats. I would be surprised if Bashir takes us seriously this time either. Despite this effort and the efforts of the international community, not only has the violence continued, but the government of Sudan is going to even greater lengths to carry out the atrocities. The New York Times recently described how the Sudanese government was violating the arms embargo by painting military aircraft white like the UN and using them to funnel arms into Darfur. Providing weapons to murderers is not the action of a government that is working to end genocide. Despite the evidence to the contrary, the international community continues to allow Bashir to lead us by the nose. The day before President Bush's remarks at the Holocaust Museum, Sudan said it would allow 3,000 UN troops as part of a "heavy support package" into Darfur. Reports of this development led to guarded expressions of hope throughout the foreign affairs and international aid communities. But this is the fourth time Sudanese President Bashir has agreed to let UN peacekeepers into Sudan, and on all three previous occasions, he has gone back on his word. The time for negotiation and deal-making with Sudan is over. It is time for the international community, led by the United States, to take concrete action to end the atrocities in Darfur. It is time for President Bashir to make a decision. He can either join with the world's leaders and end genocide in Darfur, or continue down the path toward complete isolation from the international community. It is time Bashir's own political future was linked to that of the six million Darfurians who do not know if they will live to eat their next meal. It is time for Russia and China to join the international community as partners instead of as spoilers in the UN Security Council. By providing arms and buying Sudanese oil, both Russia and China have directly contributed to a prolonging of the conflict and countless deaths. Additionally, it is time to strengthen and enforce the arms embargo, begin targeted sanctions, and enforce the already-agreed to flight ban over Darfur. The world is at a crossroads in Darfur. We can wait until another wave of killing sweeps across Darfur to take action. Or we can take steps now to prevent another holocaust. If a year from now we are asking whether Bashir's most recent ultimatum has expired, it will have been too late and this question will have already been answered. It is time to act in Darfur.
04.27.2007	04.27.07 Burr Applauds HHS for Establishing Office to Develop Medicines to Counter Bioterror Threats Office authorized by Burr’s “Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act” U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for establishing the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). BARDA was authorized by Burr's Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, P.L. 109-417, which was signed into law on December 19, 2006. "I am pleased the Department of Health and Human Services is acting quickly to establish BARDA," Burr said. "This new office will be key in speeding up the development of drugs and vaccines to protect the American people from threats like bioterrorism and pandemic flu." BARDA manages the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures to defend against chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear agents and emerging pandemic infectious diseases. BARDA will partner with academic researchers, drug and vaccine manufacturers, and other potential partners to bring more and better medicines to the public faster in case of an emergency. HHS is currently recruiting a director for BARDA, who would report directly to the HHS Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Dr. Craig Vanderwagen. Dr. Vanderwagen was confirmed by the Senate on March 22, 2007.
03.30.2007	03.30.07 Burr Announces Visits over April Recess Events to highlight veterans’ health care, education, and economic development WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr will visit Carteret, Cumberland, Forsyth, Jones, Lenoir, Nash, Onslow, Sampson, Wayne, and Wilson counties over the April recess. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, April 2, 2007 10:30 AM Senator Burr to present Bronze Star for Valor to Larry Williamson in Winston-Salem Office of U.S. Senator Richard Burr 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 4:45 PM Senator Burr to participate in media availability at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center Fayetteville VA Medical Center 2300 Ramsey Street Fayetteville, North Carolina 5:30 PM Senator Burr to tour the Womack Army Medical Center at Fort Bragg Womack Army Medical Center 2132 Reilly Road Fort Bragg, North Carolina Access to Fort Bragg is restricted. For more information about the visit please contact the public affairs office of Womack Army Medical Center at 910-907-7247. Tuesday, April 3, 2007 9:30 AM Senator Burr to meet with students and faculty at Sampson Community College in Clinton Sampson Community College Activities Center 1801 Sunset Avenue Clinton, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Dillard Middle School in Goldsboro Dillard Middle School 1101 South Devereaux Street Goldsboro, North Carolina All media attending this event must check in at the school's front office. 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Lion Industries for the Blind in Kinston Lion Industries for the Blind 4126 Berkeley Avenue Kinston, North Carolina Wednesday, April 4, 2007 9:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in a ribbon cutting at Pirate Queen Paddling in Atlantic Beach Pirate Queen Paddling 1010 West Fort Macon Road #14 Atlantic Beach, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in a ribbon cutting at Crystal Coast Habitat for Humanity in Morehead City Crystal Coast Habitat for Humanity 1412 Bridges Street Morehead City, North Carolina 1:15 PM Senator Burr to address students at Lejeune High School Lejeune High School 835 Stone Street Camp Lejeune, North Carolina Access to Camp Lejeune is restricted. All media wishing to attend this event must call Lieutenant Thomas with Camp Lejeune Media Affairs at 910-451-7425. 5:00 PM Senator Burr to participate in a USDA Rural Development event in Trenton Jones County Complex 389 Highway 58 South Trenton, North Carolina Thursday, April 5, 2007 9:15 AM Senator Burr to participate in media availability at Nash Healthcare Systems in Rocky Mount Nash General Hospital 2460 Curtis Ellis Drive Rocky Mount, North Carolina All media attending this event must check in at the information desk on the ground floor. 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Community Christian School in Wilson Community Christian School 5160 Packhouse Road Wilson, North Carolina All media attending this event must check in at the school's front office.
03.28.2007	03.28.07 Burr Statement on North Shore Road WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statement today regarding the North Shore Road issue in Swain County: "I have always supported an agreement dating back to 1943 between the United States Department of Interior (DOI), the Tennessee Valley Authority, the State of North Carolina, and the citizens of Swain County, North Carolina which would build a road along Fontana Reservoir's north shore. The road has yet to be built and the citizens of Swain County remain uncompensated for their losses. I understand frustration over this lengthy process and I want a quick resolution on this issue. Several years ago, Congress made a commitment to assess the environmental impact of building the road and gave residents of Swain County a voice in the process. The federal government, through the National Park Service, has already spent millions of dollars to conduct an Environmental Impact Study and according to the National Park Service the findings of this study will be released later this year. The community remains split on how to resolve this matter. I do not believe we should stop the work now underway and take a new path. I am aware that some of my colleagues suggest we now seek a financial settlement. Unfortunately we do not have assurances that the federal funding needed to fulfill the commitment made to the citizens of Swain County is achievable, nor is there agreement within the community that this is the right decision." For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.27.2007	03.27.07 Burr Congratulates Barton College Basketball Team on 2007 NCAA Division II Championship Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today congratulated the Barton College Bulldogs for winning the 2007 NCAA Division II Basketball Championship. The Bulldogs defeated the defending champions Winona State 77-75 to win the title. "I am proud of the Barton College Bulldogs for their come from behind victory. I have seen a lot of college basketball games in my life, but the last 45 seconds of this game was one of the most exciting I have watched," Burr said in a statement for the Senate record. "In North Carolina, basketball is not just a game, it's a way of life. I applaud Coach Lievense and the Bulldog team for their extraordinary season." Barton College is a small private school in Wilson with a student body of 960 students. The win over Winona State, a relatively large school with an enrollment of over 8,000 students, represents a "David and Goliath" story for this small-town North Carolina basketball team. Senator Burr submitted the following statement for the record in the United States Senate: Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate a college basketball team that this past weekend won a national title. I'm speaking of Barton College in Wilson, North Carolina who beat the defending champion Winona State, to win the Division II Basketball Championship. Through their win, Barton College also ended Winona State's Division II record 57-game winning streak. Now I have seen a lot of college basketball games over the course of my life (especially representing the State of North Carolina where basketball is not just a game but a way of life), but this one ranks close to the top when it comes to exciting endings. With only 45 seconds left to play in the game, Barton down by 7 points -- a deficit that would be extremely difficult to overcome by any team -- and assisted by the stellar performance of his teammates, Barton's Anthony Atkinson scored an unbelievable 10 points in the remaining 39 seconds (included a buzzer-beating lay-up) to win the Division II national title by a score of 77-75. If you didn't see the game live, I would suggest you go on the internet and watch the ending to this fantastic game. It is simply unbelievable and is reminiscent of Christian Leattner's game-winning last-second jump shot in Duke's dramatic 104-103 victory over Kentucky in the East regional final of the 1992 NCAA Tournament. For Barton College, a small private school with a student body of only 960 students, this win over Winona State, a relatively large school with an enrollment of over 8,000 students, represents a "David and Goliath" story for a small-town North Carolina basketball team. Again, I congratulate the NCAA Division II National Champion Barton Bulldogs and Head Coach Ron Lievense on an extremely exciting end to an extraordinary season. Mr. President, I yield the floor. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.26.2007	03.26.07 Burr, Obama Introduce the Genomics and Personalized Medicine Act of 2007 Bill aims to give patients a better understanding of what causes certain diseases; North Carolina researchers lead in field Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Barack Obama (D-IL) recently introduced the bipartisan Genomics and Personalized Medicine Act of 2007. The legislation, S. 976, aims to advance the study of human genes and their functions to better predict patients' susceptibility to certain diseases or conditions, and better customize drugs and medical treatments to meet patients' unique needs. This field, called personalized medicine, has the potential to transform medical care. Personalized medicine can help patients and doctors detect disease onset much earlier and reduce disease progression through custom-made medical treatments and products. "I believe this legislation will help improve the quality and safety of health care by providing a better understanding of what causes certain diseases," Burr said. "Through a coordinated research initiative and a focus on safer genetic tests, patients and doctors will be empowered to make better decisions about medical treatments." "I am proud that North Carolina is a leader in genomics and personalized medicine research," Burr said. "Duke University's Institute for Genome Sciences and Policy, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's Institute for Pharmacogenomics and Individualized Therapy are both conducting significant research efforts in this area and support a stronger federal focus on genomics. This legislation will increase federal support for initiatives at Duke and Chapel Hill - a win-win for North Carolina and patients." Specifically, the Genomics and Personalized Medicine Act of 2007 would: Establish an Interagency Working Group at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to pull together and speed up genomics research by developing standardized terminology, and establishing quality standards and guidelines for the collection, processing, and storage of genomic samples and data. Advance genomics research by establishing a national database that collects genomic data to simplify data analysis. Develop biobanking initiatives at academic medical centers across the country, including biobanks containing biological specimens. Improve genetics and genomics training by developing model training programs, residency curricula, and teaching materials. Encourage drug sponsors and device companies to develop companion diagnostic tests. Improve the safety and effectiveness of genetic tests, which identify disease triggers, by improving federal oversight and regulation of such tests. Evaluate direct-to-consumer marketing of genetic tests to which consumers have direct access, and educate the public about genomics and how it can be used. Assess the clinical usefulness and cost-effectiveness of genetic tests that help guide prescribing decisions. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP). For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.22.2007	03.22.07 Burr Introduces Legislation to Bank Amniotic and Placental Stem Cells Research in North Carolina shows promise in using amniotic fluid and placentas to collect stem cells Washington, D.C. - Today Senator Richard Burr introduced The Amniotic Fluid and Placental Stem Cell Banking Bill of 2007. Burr's legislation sets up a network of banks to store amniotic fluid and placental cells under the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program. New research shows that a small number of stem cells in amniotic fluid and the placenta can give rise to many of the specialized cell types found in the human body. Under the bill, the Secretary of Health and Human Services would contract with qualified amniotic fluid and placental stem cell banks to create and maintain a national inventory of 100,000 new high-quality amniotic fluid and placental stem cell units. The legislation authorizes $20 million annually to establish the banks. "New research conducted in North Carolina shows benefits to collecting stem cells from amniotic fluid and placentas that might later be used for medical research and treatment of disease. We should do what we can to ensure this potentially life-saving material is saved for future use," Burr said. Dr. Anthony Atala, M.D., senior researcher and director of the Institute for Regenerative Medicine at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, and his colleagues have received national attention for finding stem cells in amniotic fluid and placentas that can give rise to many of the specialized cell types found in the human body. The researchers believe these new stem cells may represent an intermediate stage between embryonic stem cells and adult stem cells. Researchers have already used these cells to repopulate neural tissue in mouse brains and grow bone, liver, and muscle. Amniotic fluid and placental stem cells are collected after a routine diagnostic amniocentesis or placental sampling or from discarded amniotic fluid and placenta after birth. These methods are the only two ways to collect these particular stem cells. "Dr. Atala and his colleagues at Wake Forest have done great work toward finding potential cures through the use of amniotic and placental stem cells. Their dedication to medical research demonstrates why the United States remains the world leader in medical breakthroughs," Burr added. "With amniotic fluid and placental stem cells, one may be able to obtain the same medical benefits - and cure the same diseases - without the risks or controversy associated with other stem cells. I think this work represents a giant step forward for stem cell research. It is just what the doctor ordered - stem cells with a low risk of tumorigencity that can be grown into replacement tissues quickly and easily. Since these cells can be obtained so easily, it makes it far more feasible to create a stem cell bank to match patients," said Robert Lanza, Vice President of Research and Scientific Development for Advanced Cell Technology in Wocester, Massachusetts. This Act expands the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program which was enacted in December 2005 and was co-sponsored by Burr. The program provided grant funding to establish a network of cord blood banks; set up a single point of access for physicians and patients to search for marrow and cord blood; established a patient advocacy office; expanded the stem cell therapeutics outcomes database; and placed the National Marrow Donor Program under the program. "The use of stem cells is promising for both research and therapy," Dr. Anthony Atala said. "A national bank registry will make stem cells readily available from a wide variety of individuals which will help scientists gain more knowledge about cell biology and hopefully accelerate the use of these cells for therapy." Burr serves on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee in the U.S. Senate. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.22.2007	03.22.07 Burr Applauds Senate Confirmation of Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness Official Key position created by Burr’s legislation last year WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded the Senate for confirming Dr. Craig Vanderwagen to be the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response will be responsible for ensuring our federal public health and medical responses to disasters are faster and better coordinated, and for accelerating the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures. The position was created in Burr's bioterrorism bill the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (Public Law 109-417). "I applaud my Senate colleagues for confirming Dr. Craig Vanderwagen as the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response. It is important this critical leadership position is filled so we can begin to implement the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act passed last year. We learned from Hurricane Katrina and 9/11 that we must do more to improve our public health and medical preparedness and response systems for future disasters. We must also ensure more and better medical countermeasures are produced faster to protect the American people from threat agents. Dr. Vanderwagen is well-qualified and has a proven track record of leadership during emergency response situations." RADM W. Craig Vanderwagen, M.D., was appointed the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Assistant Secretary for Public Health Emergency Preparedness and promoted to the rank of Rear Admiral, Upper Half, U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) in July 2006. He now serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response and Chief Preparedness Officer. In this position, he is the Secretary's principal advisor on matters related to bioterrorism and other public health emergencies. The mission of his office is to lead the nation in preventing, responding to and reducing the adverse health effects of public health emergencies and disasters. RADM Vanderwagen has significant public health emergency and disaster response experience. Most recently, he was the Deputy Secretary's Special Assistant for Preparedness and led the teams who implemented changes at HHS recommended in the White House Report, Katrina Lessons Learned. In addition RADM Vanderwagen was the senior federal health official in the response to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in Louisiana; led the public health team deployed on USNS Mercy to Indonesia to assist in the 2005 tsunami recovery; served as the Chief of Public Health for the Coalition Provisional Authority and the Ministry of Health in Iraq; and directed a portion of health care provided to Kosovar refugees during the 1999 Balkans conflict. His federal career began with the Indian Health Service Albuquerque Area Office as a USPHS General Medical Officer at the Zuni Indian Hospital. RADM Vanderwagen also served as the IHS Office of Clinical and Preventive Services Director. He was responsible for the full scope of clinical health care programs, including quality assurance and preventive programs for 49 IHS hospitals, hundreds of clinics and health stations. In support of the Surgeon General, RADM Vanderwagen served as the USPHS Chief Professional Officer for the Medical Category of the Commissioned Officers Corps. He provided guidance and advice on matters such as recruitment, assignment, deployment, retention, and career development for more than 1,300 USPHS physicians. RADM Vanderwagen is a board-certified family physician. He is published in several medical journals covering family practice, including, Medical Education, Children Today, and Hospital and Community Psychiatry. RADM Vanderwagen and his wife Suzanne have three grown sons. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.21.2007	03.21.07 Burr: Lowering High School Drop-Out Rate Achievable The state of North Carolina has recently released its most current public high school graduation statistics. The numbers are alarming—only 68% of our students graduate from high school. The numbers are bleaker for various subgroups of students—a 60% high school graduation rate for Black students, 55% for low-income students, and 52% for Hispanic students. Eighty percent of the Nation's high schools with the highest number of dropouts are in only 15 states--North Carolina is one of those states. Our students, our schools, our communities can do better. We must do better. In today's competitive economy, our young people must be prepared for jobs which increasingly require a postsecondary education. Unfortunately, in 2003, 3.5 million Americans ages 16 to 25 did not have a high school diploma and were not enrolled in school. Studies show that those without a high school diploma are more likely to be unemployed, incarcerated, live in poverty and receive public assistance than those individuals with at least a high school diploma. We are fortunate to live in a State with a rich history in higher education. Yet we cannot afford to sit back and take it easy. We should be proud of this tradition, but while 64.5% of recent North Carolina high school graduates go on to enroll in college, far too many North Carolinians cannot enroll because they never completed high school. A recent survey of high school dropouts conducted by Civic Enterprises for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation presents a picture of the American high school dropout that is surprising to many. I know it surprised me. Eighty-eight percent of those students who dropped out of high school had passing grades when they dropped out. Fifty-eight percent dropped out with two or fewer years to complete high school; 66 percent said they would have worked harder if expectations had been higher; 81 percent recognized that a high school diploma was absolutely vital to their success in life; and 74 percent said they would have stayed in school if they had it to do all over again. These numbers prove to me that getting more young people to stay in school is achievable. There is no silver bullet that will fix our public high schools. I hope more and better research will give us answers, but until then, there are a number of things that we can and should do to end this crisis. We know there are three R's to making our public high schools work better for today's students--rigor, relevance, and relationships. First, we must ensure that all students have access to a challenging curriculum that will prepare them for both for college and for work. Second, we must ensure that students have opportunities through hands-on activities such as internships and job shadowing to experience and understand the connections between what they are learning in the classroom and the working world. And third, we must ensure that both students and their parents have the information and support they need regarding high school graduation requirements, college entrance requirements, and the financial aid available at the Federal, state, and local levels to pay for college. More importantly we must make sure that these students build relationships with counselors and teachers who are tracking their attendance and following their progress. No one should fall through the cracks. I am working with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) to face the dropout crisis head on. Together we have recently introduced the Graduate for a Better America Act to create a competitive grant program targeted at high schools with the lowest graduation rates. This is a first step and an opportunity for students, parents, and educators to understand that the need for high student achievement and high school graduation are greater than ever before. The legislation will also give students and educators more tools so a greater number of our young people graduate and move on to college or the workplace with the knowledge and the skills they need to succeed. I believe we can increase the number of young people who choose to stay in school and reap the lifelong benefits of a diploma. Now is the time to face our dropout crisis with initiatives that will have a positive impact on the lives of these students. By providing more challenging classes, offering more internship and work study programs, and building better relationships with students we can do better.
03.20.2007	03.20.07 Burr: High Passport Demand Calls for Advance Planning; Expect Delays in Processing Washington, D.C. - Today Senator Richard Burr called on North Carolinians who need passports to plan ahead and expect delays due to the unprecedented high demand at the U.S. Department of State for passport services. Recent changes requiring American citizens traveling by air to Mexico or Canada to have a passport have contributed to the increased volume in requested passport services. "I encourage all North Carolinians to plan ahead and take the necessary steps to ensure passports are updated in advance of travel," Burr said. "The State Department has hired additional personnel to handle the high demand for passport services and my office stands ready to assist in any way possible." The State Department encourages travelers to allow 8 to 10 weeks for routine passport processing and 3 to 4 weeks for expedited processing. North Carolinians who are traveling or need a passport in order to get a visa within two weeks should call the National Passport Information Center at 877-487-2778 which is open from 7:00 AM to midnight EST Monday - Friday or go to http://www.travel.state.gov to check the status of their application online. Senator Burr's Winston-Salem and Wilmington offices respond to passport related inquiries and are available to assist North Carolinians with questions or concerns. Burr's Winston-Salem office can be reached at 800-685-8916 or (336) 631-5125 and his Wilmington office at 888-848-1833 or (910) 251-1058. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.20.2007	03.20.07 Burr: Army Wounded Soldier and Family Hotline Now Available Washington, D.C. - Today Senator Richard Burr highlighted the creation of the Army's Wounded Soldier and Family Hotline which will provide wounded Soldiers and their family members another way to resolve medical issues. The hotline will provide Soldiers an opportunity to share their health care related issues with senior Army leadership in order to improve the way the Army serves health care needs. "Our men and women in the military deserve the best medical care available. Anything less than that is unacceptable. I am pleased the Army set up this hotline to help our men and women in uniform resolve solve of their most pressing medical issues," Burr said. The Wounded Soldier and Family Hotline can be reached from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday at (800) 984-8523. The U.S. Department of Defense provides similar services for severely injured troops of all branches through the Military Severely Injured Support Center which can be reached at 888-774-1361. The Marine Corps operates the "Marine for Life" program to provide support services to injured Marines. It can be reached at 866-645-8762. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.14.2007	03.14.07 Burr Reintroduces “Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act” Washington, D.C. - Today Senator Richard Burr reintroduced the Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act, S. 874. Burr's legislation provides supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. It will increase veterans' access to assistance for housing, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. "I am grateful to the veterans who have given so much to our country. While we can never fully repay them for their service on behalf of our Nation, it is important that we remember their sacrifices and provide services for them," Burr said. "Many of our veterans find themselves living in extreme poverty and some are homeless. This legislation will help ensure our veterans receive access to the benefits they deserve." According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 1.5 million of our Nation's veterans live in poverty. North Carolina is home to over 770,000 veterans. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, it is estimated that there are over 40,000 North Carolina veterans living below the national poverty level. "I hope the U.S. Senate gives this legislation full consideration quickly," Burr added. Burr serves on the Veterans Affairs Committee in the U.S. Senate. He introduced his Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness legislation in November 2005 and in June 2006 the legislation was passed by the Senate as part of the Veterans Choice of Representation and Benefits Enhancement Act of 2006 but was not included in the final legislation negotiated with the House of Representatives. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.13.2007	03.13.07 Burr, Dole Re-Introduce the Scott Gardner Act Legislation mandates deportation of illegal immigrants convicted of driving while intoxicated Today U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Elizabeth Dole re-introduced the Scott Gardner Act. The legislation requires the deportation of illegal immigrants convicted of driving while intoxicated (DWI). The bill is named for Scott Gardner, a Gaston County native, who was killed by a drunk driver while traveling on vacation with his family in 2005. The driver was an illegal immigrant with four previous DWI convictions. U.S. Representative Sue Myrick introduced a similar bill in the House of Representatives. "Thousands of Americans are killed by drunk drivers every year," Burr said. "This legislation will ensure illegal immigrants that drive under the influence will be deported and will not have the opportunity to repeat such reckless behavior." "Our DWI laws should be vigorously enforced, whether the offender is an illegal immigrant or a U.S. citizen, and when the offender is in this country illegally, he or she should not be allowed to remain here," said Dole. "I am proud to join Richard Burr, and Sue Myrick in the House, in working to address this important issue." The bill also improves collaboration between federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies through training and information sharing. In addition, the legislation mandates the construction of federal detention centers in areas with a high population of illegal immigrants. Senator Burr introduced the Scott Gardner Act last year during the 109th Congress.
03.06.2007	03.06.07 Burr Introduces “Graduate for a Better Future Act” Bipartisan legislation to help increase high school graduation rates; better prepare students for college and work Washington, D.C. - Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr introduced the Graduate for a Better Future Act. Burr's legislation aims to help public high schools improve graduation rates by focusing on the 3 R's of high school reform: Rigor, Relevance, and Relationships. The bill establishes a competitive grant program targeted at school districts and high schools with the lowest graduation rates. Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) is the lead co-sponsor of the legislation. "I believe investing in education is one of the best ways to secure a bright future for North Carolina," Burr said. "It is simply unacceptable that over 30% of North Carolina's public high school students do not go on to graduate. Students should stay in school so they are better prepared for today's jobs and for America to retain its competitive edge in the world economy." The high school graduation rate for the class of 2003 was only 70% nationwide. North Carolina's graduation rate was slightly less at 69%. Almost one-third of American students who enter high school in ninth grade never receive a high school diploma. Nationally, the high school graduation rate for white students in 2003 was 78%, the rate for African American students was 55%, and the rate for Hispanic students was 53%. "While these statistics are alarming, I know students, schools, and communities can do better. We must. My legislation would give schools the tools they need to help keep more young people in school," Burr said. According to a 2002 study by the U.S. Census Bureau, an individual without a high school diploma will earn approximately $1.1 million less than an individual with a bachelor's degree, $1.5 million less than an individual with a master's degree, and $2.4 million less than an individual with a doctoral degree. Specifically, the legislation would create a competitive grant program to: Create models of excellence for academically challenging public high schools to prepare all students for college and work; Offer academic catch-up programs for those students who enter high school and do not meet proficient levels in mathematics, reading, language arts, or science. These programs would enable such students to meet proficient levels and remain on track to graduate from high school with a regular high school diploma; Implement an early warning system to quickly identify students at risk of dropping out of high school. The system would track student absenteeism, one of the greatest predictors of students who may drop out of school; Include a comprehensive college guidance program that ensures all students and their parents are regularly notified of high school graduation requirements and college entrance requirements. The program would provide guidance and assistance to students applying to postsecondary education and who are seeking federal, State, local, and private financial aid assistance and scholarships; Implement a program that offers all students opportunities for work-based and experiential learning experiences such as job-shadowing, internships, and community service, so students make the connection between what they are learning in school and how it applies to the workplace; Implement a student advisement program in which all students are assigned to and have regular meetings with an academic teacher advisor. In a report for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Civic Enterprises recently conducted a survey of high school dropouts and found 88% of high school dropouts had passing grades when they dropped out; 58% dropped out with two or fewer years left to complete high school; 66% said they would have worked harder in school if expectations had been higher; 81% realized a high school diploma was vital to their success in life; and 74% said they would have stayed in school if they had the opportunity to do it all over again. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP). For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.15.2007	02.15.07 Burr Announces Visits Over February Recess Events to highlight economic development, education, and health care Senator Richard Burr will visit Bertie, Chatham, Chowan, Currituck, Dare, Durham, Gates, Halifax, Hertford, Lee, Northampton, Vance, and Warren counties during the February recess. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, February 19 11:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in USDA Rural Development Home Tour First Home on the Tour 925 Glosson Road Siler City, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to participate in USDA Rural Development Home Tour Second Home on the Tour 961 Hamlets Chapel Road Pittsboro, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to participate in USDA Rural Development Home Tour Third Home on the Tour 53 Juleann Lane Pittsboro, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Frontier Spinning Mills Frontier Spinning Mills 1823 Boone Trail Road Sanford, North Carolina Tuesday, February 20 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit East Chapel Hill High School East Chapel Hill High School 500 Weaver Dairy Road Chapel Hill, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to co-host North Carolina Economic Development Summit Durham Civic Center 201 Foster Street Durham, North Carolina 1:45 PM Senator Burr to participate in the Help is Here Express Partnership for Prescription Assistance Bus Tour Maria Parham Medical Center 566 Ruin Creek Road Henderson, North Carolina 3:45 PM Senator Burr to visit Vance-Warren Comprehensive Health Plan Inc. (Healthco) Vance-Warren Comprehensive Health Plan Inc. 986 Axtell Road Manson, North Carolina 6:00 PM Senator Burr to deliver remarks to the Henderson Rotary Club Henderson Country Club 300 Country Club Drive Henderson, North Carolina Wednesday, February 21 8:00 AM Senator Burr to deliver remarks to the Roanoke Valley Chamber of Commerce Chockoyotte Country Club 800 Country Club Road Weldon, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in USDA Rural Development event in Scotland Neck Scotland Neck Town Hall The Board Room 1310 Main Street Scotland Neck, North Carolina 11:30 AM Senator Burr to tour Northampton County Emergency Operations Center Northampton County Emergency Operations Center 132 Landfill Road Jackson, North Carolina 4:00 PM Senator Burr to visit the Gates County Regional Medical Center Gates County Regional Medical Center 501 Main Street Gatesville, North Carolina Thursday, February 22 11:55 AM Senator Burr participates in a panel on Cellulosic Ethanol with President Bush Novozymes North America, Inc. 77 Perry Chapel Church Road Franklinton, North Carolina 5:30 PM Senator Burr to deliver remarks to the Outer Banks Chamber of Commerce Clarion Hotel on the Ocean 1601 South Virginia Dare Trail Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina Friday, February 23 8:00 AM Senator Burr to deliver remarks to the Edenton-Chowan Chamber of Commerce Edenton-Chowan Campus of the College of the Albemarle Culinary Technology Building 824 North Oakum Street Edenton, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit DRS Technical Services DRS Technical Services 1060 Consolidated Road Elizabeth City, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit CamTech High School CamTech High School 103 US Highway 158 Camden, North Carolina
02.14.2007	02.14.07 Burr Introduces Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act Bipartisan legislation establishes grant program to help end chronic homelessness Washington, D.C. - Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr introduced the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act. Burr's legislation provides supportive housing, which combines housing with supportive services such as mental health, substance abuse, and employment opportunities for chronically homeless individuals. The bill establishes a grant program through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to help end chronic homelessness. Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) is the lead co-sponsor of the legislation. "I believe we have the opportunity to help solve the issue of chronic homelessness in a cost-effective way by providing permanent supportive housing and supportive services," Burr said. "These services can actually help reduce the number of visits of homeless individuals to emergency rooms, shelters, and hospitals which also reduces costs." Currently, over a half a million Americans do not have a place to call home each night and two to three million people find themselves homeless at some point during the year. There are over 1,100 chronically homeless people in North Carolina and over 200,000 nationwide. Chronically homeless people use a greater amount of emergency resources particularly in shelters, emergency rooms, and hospitals each year than other population groups. However, studies show supportive housing and increased access to supportive services for mental health, substance abuse, and employment opportunities can prevent the need for emergency assistance. Burr introduced the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act when he served in the U.S. House of Representatives. In the Senate, he introduced the Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness legislation which was approved by the Veterans Affairs Committee last year. Today's bill provides supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.09.2007	02.09.07 Burr Announces Military Academy Nominations WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced his nomination of fifty North Carolinians to serve at one of our nation's military academies. The nominees were selected after an application and interview process conducted by Senator Burr's Academy Selection Committee, which is comprised of military academy graduates, veterans, and community leaders from across the state. The nominees, their hometown, parents' names, and high school are listed below the academy to which they have been nominated. United States Military Academy at West Point Mr. Brett T. Bartlett Fayetteville, North Carolina Son of Roger and Rosita Bartlett Cape Fear High School Mr. Joseph N. Callaway, III Rocky Mount, North Carolina Son of Karen and Joseph Callaway Rocky Mount Academy Private First Class Chase A. Amabile Fayetteville, North Carolina Son of Dorothy and George Amabile Serving with A Company, 3rd Battalion, 7th Infantry Fort Stewart, Georgia Mr. Alexander S. Knight Charlotte, North Carolina Son of Steve and Suzanne Knight Zebulon B. Vance High School Mr. Grant N. Duncklee Cary, North Carolina Son of David and Pamela Duncklee Green Hope High School Mr. J. Eulan Johnson, III Hickory, North Carolina Son of Jay and Nancy Johnson Hickory High School Mr. Robert M. Vendley, Jr. Davidson, North Carolina Son of Robert and Nancy Vendley Cannon School Mr. Thomas P. Kendall Matthews, North Carolina Son of Jeffrey and Virginia Kendall Providence Senior High School ?MORE? Mr. Jonathan D. Jones Balsam, North Carolina Son of Jonathan and Wandajean Jones Tuscola High School Mr. Ryan T. Curry Waxhaw, North Carolina Son of Kevin and Kathy Curry Weddington High School Mr. Christopher M. Kientz Fayetteville, North Carolina Son of Theodore and Sarah Kientz Pine Forest High School Mr. Nicholas Pendley Shelby, North Carolina Son of Jerry and Natalie Pendley Shelby High School United States Air Force Academy Mr. Daniel Acero Elizabeth City, North Carolina Son of Alfredo and Zoraida Acero Northeastern High School Mr. Samuel T. McCraw Kernersville, North Carolina Son of Lewis and Vickie McCraw Robert B. Glenn High School Mr. David Phetmixay Ramseur, North Carolina Son of Peter and Vilavanh Phetmixay Southern Randolph High School Mr. Alexandre J. Beaussart Charlotte, North Carolina Son of Jean-Jacques & Sandra Beaussart Charlotte Latin School Mr. Austin M. Hairfield Concord, North Carolina Son of Wendell and Melinda Hairfield Jay M. Robinson High School Mr. Nick D. DeBarmore Jr. Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Nick and Margot DeBarmore William G. Enloe High School Mr. Christopher D. Hollinger Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina Son of David and Naren Hollinger Fuquay-Varina High School Mr. Zachary T. Hodgin Banner Elk, North Carolina Son of Bob and Gaila Hodgin Avery County High School Mr. Michael N. Glatthar Hayesville, North Carolina Son of Richard and Cathy Glatthar Hayesville High School Miss Julie K. Alexander Salisbury, North Carolina Daughter of Larry and Deborah Alexander East Rowan High School United States Naval Academy Mr. Benjamin S. Read Winston-Salem, North Carolina Son of Oliver and Janet Read Forsyth Country Day School Mr. Michael P. Eddy Asheboro, North Carolina Son of Dr. Ralph and Jane Eddy Asheboro High School Mr. Tyler W. Davenport Summerfield, North Carolina Son of Tony and Robin Davenport Asheboro High School Mr. Micah L. Penley Hickory, North Carolina Son of Rick and Kim Penley Fred T. Foard High School ?MORE? Mr. Martin C. Hefner Southern Pines, North Carolina Son of Jim and Marty Hefner The O'Neal School Mr. Robert G. Menzel Cornelius, North Carolina Son of Robert and Lisa Menzel Southlake Christian Academy Mr. William B. Craven Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Tommy and Nancy Craven Jesse O. Sanderson High School Mr. John H. Horne Charlotte, North Carolina Son of Terry and Lecia Horne Providence Day School Mr. Christian S. Murphy Concord, North Carolina Son of Mark and Randie Murphy Concord High School Mr. Steven M. Shepherd Charlotte, North Carolina Son of Sydney and Kim Shepherd Myers Park High School Mr. Michael S. Smithson Durham, North Carolina Son of Mitchell and Amy Paul The McCallie School Mr. Andrew V. Schweickert Mooresville, North Carolina Son of Vince and Laura Schweickert Lake Norman High School Mr. Jason S. Garden Arden, North Carolina Son of Charles and Sharon Garden North Carolina State University TC Roberson High School Mr. Andrew J. Lloyd New Bern, North Carolina Son of Lieutenant Colonel Scott and Dawn Lloyd Havelock High School Mr. Colin D. Smith Emerald Isle, North Carolina Son of Martin and Cheryl Smith Croatan High School Mr. John R. Patterson Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Robert and Lisa Patterson Roanoke Rapids High School Mr. Thomas E. Lewis Chapel Hill, North Carolina Son of Eric and Karen Lewis East Chapel Hill High School Mr. Sean P. Hetrick Fayetteville, North Carolina Son of Phillip and Ann Provencher Seventy-First Senior High School Mr. Thomas J. Enzweiler Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Mark and Mary Ann Enzweiler Cardinal Gibbons Memorial High School Mr. Jonathan W. Wright Arden, North Carolina Son of Debra and Wittner Wright TC Roberson High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Mr. Daniel K. Kane Jacksonville, North Carolina Son of Joel and Sharon Kane White Oak High School Mr. William J. Holton, III New Bern, North Carolina Son of Bill Holton Hargrave Military Academy ?MORE? Mr. Benjamin C. Reavis Boonville, North Carolina Son of Kenneth Reavis Starmount High School Mr. John E. Albrecht New Bern, North Carolina Son of Kurt and Leslie Albrecht New Bern High School Mr. Gregory S. Dibenedetto Raleigh, North Carolina Son of Bill and Karen DiBenedetto Millbrook High School Mr. Jordan Alfaro Fayetteville, North Carolina Son of Armando and Tracy Alfaro Jack Britt High School Mr. David A. Fioramonti Boone, North Carolina Son of William and Karen Fioramonti Watauga High School Mr. Kenneth H. Daly, Jr. Greensboro, North Carolina Son of Ken and Sue Daly Grimsley High School # # #
02.09.2007	02.09.07 Burr Congratulates John Queen for his Election as President of National Cattlemen’s Association Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today congratulated John Queen, a native of Waynesville, North Carolina, for his election as president of the National Cattlemen's Association. Since its inception in 1898, the association has only had two other presidents from the southeastern United States. "John will be a grassroots champion for cattlemen and North Carolina's agriculture community," Burr said. "I congratulate him and look forward to working with him." Queen was elected President of National Cattlemen's Association last week at the 2007 Cattle Industry Annual Convention in Nashville. More than 6500 cattlemen from across the nation attended. The National Cattlemen's Beef Association (NCBA) is the largest organization representing America's cattle industry. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.08.2007	02.08.07 Burr Raises Concerns Over Lack of Funding for BRAC Military Transition North Carolina stands to lose millions if funds not included in budget measure Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today on the Senate floor raised concerns about lack of funding in the Continuing Resolution for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The lack of funds may affect a wide-ranging list of military construction and quality of life projects such as barracks, family housing, child care centers, and military training. The Continuing Resolution is a budget measure to fund the government for the remainder of the 2007 fiscal year. The Senate is expected to take up the legislation next week. "During this critical time for our troops and their families, this lack of funding is unacceptable. It is essential we take care of our troops, our bases, and our military communities," Burr said. "A lack of funding will delay military projects throughout North Carolina." In 2005, the Base Realignment and Closure process was reshaped to optimize military readiness, while also reducing excess capacity among military bases. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.06.2007	02.06.07 Burr Applauds U.S. Trade Representative for Challenging China on Unfair Trade Practices China’s use of trade subsidies significantly impact North Carolina’s economy Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today praised the U.S. Trade Representative for challenging China's inconsistent trade practices which harm America's businesses. Last week, the U.S. Trade Representative filed suit with the World Trade Organization (WTO) to initiate dispute settlement consultations with China regarding its use of unfair trade subsidies. "I believe it is important to confront China on its unfair trade subsidies, because these trade issues significantly impact North Carolina's economy," Burr said. "China is now our nation's third largest trading partner. We cannot stand on the sidelines and allow China to compete unfairly in the global marketplace at the expense of American workers, consumers, and businesses. I support free trade and our ability to buy and sell goods around the world, but the conditions under which we trade should be fair." The use of prohibited subsidy programs violate WTO rules and effectively deny U.S. companies fair competition in the global marketplace. These programs unfairly impact U.S. manufacturers and their employees. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.05.2007	02.05.07 Burr Announces North Carolina Economic Development Summit on Health Care Durham event to focus on employer wellness and prevention solutions; developing medical research into better patient care and jobs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced he will cosponsor a North Carolina Economic Development Summit focusing on wellness and prevention solutions and health care research and development on Tuesday, February 20 at the Durham Civic Center in Durham. Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, Director of the National Institutes of Health, will deliver the keynote address at the summit. The summit will be moderated by North Carolina Secretary of Health and Human Services Carmen Hooker Odom. "The health care industry is important to North Carolina's economy. Our state continues to be a world leader in innovative health care strategies," said Senator Burr. "I believe we should increase medical research and development in our state because it not only extends healthy lives and reduces illness, but it also creates jobs. This summit will increase awareness on prevention and wellness solutions and research and development issues." Representatives from Dell, Inc. in Austin, Texas; The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; The Ten City Challenge in Washington, D.C.; and VF Corporation in Greensboro will discuss employer solutions on wellness and prevention. Representatives from Duke University; M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas; Park Square Bank in Durham; The Aurora Fund in Durham; and the U.S. Department of Defense's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) will explore how to develop medical research into better patient care, products, and jobs. The summit is the third in a series Senator Burr has developed to improve economic development in North Carolina. The first summit was held in January 2006 and focused on access to federal grants for community colleges. Last July Burr cosponsored a summit on health care information technology and workforce development in Charlotte. Future planned events include a summit addressing higher education issues and a summit for county, city and town managers in the Tar Heel state. In addition to the summits, Senator Burr will continue to host workshops across North Carolina focusing on increasing access to federal resources and more effective grant writing skills for North Carolina's small businesses and counties, cities, and towns. Last year, Senator Burr hosted workshops concentrating on access to federal grants for fire and rescue teams, faith-based and community organizations, and museums and libraries. The summit is free and open to the public. Registration is required. For more information about the summit go to http://burr.senate.gov/register or call John Kane in Senator Burr's office at (202) 224-3154. # # #
01.23.2007	01.23.07 Burr Statement on the State of the Union Address by President George W. Bush WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statement regarding the President's State of the Union Address: "Tonight, President Bush outlined an aggressive domestic agenda as well as reiterated his strategy forward in Iraq. I was heartened to hear him talk about increasing access to affordable health care, improving fiscal responsibility, reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy and enhancing our nation's energy security, strengthening our public schools, and passing immigration reform. The rising cost of health care is a big concern for North Carolina families and businesses. I believe everyone should have access to affordable health care and currently, many minimum wage employees are uninsured. I think employers should have the option of providing minimum wage employees with health care benefits equaling the $2.10 wage increase currently being considered by Congress. I believe Congress must be more fiscally responsible and better prioritize its spending. We should spend taxpayer dollars wisely or not at all. It is inexcusable earmarks are often added to legislation without anyone knowing about the projects. We cannot afford to overlook wasteful spending or we will leave our children with a legacy of unpaid debts. Tonight President Bush also encouraged America to become less dependent on foreign sources of oil and to improve our energy security. I believe our nation must become more self-reliant by boosting domestic supplies of traditional energy sources like oil while encouraging development of new energy efficient technologies and renewable sources of energy. Our public schools are the key to better paying jobs and a strong economy in our state. It is my hope that during the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act this year we can include reforms ensuring high school students not only graduate but that they graduate with the necessary skills to succeed in college and the workforce. This year I will introduce legislation to help improve high school graduation rates and make sure our young adults are prepared for their future. Strengthened border security and comprehensive immigration reform are very important to North Carolinians. I do not support a blanket amnesty that would reward those who have broken the law by putting them on a direct path to citizenship. Our country has a rich history of welcoming legal immigrants but we should only permit those into our country who respect our laws, our system of government, and way of life. In his speech, President Bush again recognized the importance of our mission in Iraq. I have always believed we must succeed in Iraq and that failure is not an option. We owe it to our troops and to the Iraqi people to remain committed to supporting a free and stable Iraq. It is critical for the Iraqi leadership to take immediate steps to disband the sectarian militias and death squads, pass key oil legislation, and hold provincial elections. Our success in Iraq will define the security of our children as well as generations to come." # # #
01.11.2007	01.11.07 Burr Settles Orange Bowl Bet with McConnell WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today honored his bet with Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) by delivering an authentic North Carolina barbeque lunch to McConnell's Washington office. Senator McConnell's alma mater, Louisville beat Burr's Wake Forest Demon Deacons 24-13 in the Orange Bowl on January 2. Prior to the game, the senators placed a friendly wager - a Kentucky Fried Chicken lunch for North Carolina barbeque on the outcome of the game. "I am proud of the successful season the Demon Deacons had this year. They played hard against a great Louisville team in the Orange Bowl," said Senator Burr. "Coach Grobe and his team represented the university and the Atlantic Coast Conference well and I am looking forward to another exciting season next year." After Burr delivered the barbeque to McConnell, the two senators enjoyed an authentic barbeque lunch with all of the proper fixins. # # #
01.10.2007	01.10.07 Burr Statement on President Bush’s Remarks on Iraq WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement regarding the President's remarks on Iraq: "I have always believed we must succeed in Iraq. Failure is not an option. We owe it to our troops and to the Iraqi people to remain committed to supporting a free and stable Iraq. The Iraqi leadership must rise to the challenge—the world is watching. It is critical for the Iraqi government to take immediate steps to disband the sectarian militias and death squads, pass key oil sharing legislation, and hold provincial elections. I saw firsthand the need for security and stability in Iraq while visiting Baghdad and Balad in September. I believe it is essential we first end the violence that has escalated in the streets of Baghdad if the Iraqi people are to live in peace and freedom. I support a temporary surge in U.S. troops provided those troops are given a clearly defined mission and achievable military objectives. Our success in Iraq will define the security of our children as well as generations to come." # # #
12.27.2006	12.27.06 Burr Statement on the Death of President Gerald Ford Today U.S. Senator Richard Burr issued the following statement on President Gerald Ford's death: "We have lost a true American hero. President Gerald Ford was a distinguished leader and statesman. He helped bring our nation together during a time of turmoil and his legacy and contributions will be remembered for years to come. My thoughts and prayers are with the Ford family during this sad and difficult time."
12.19.2006	12.19.06 Burr’s Biodefense and Pandemic Preparedness Legislation Signed into Law WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today President Bush signed into law S. 3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act authored by Senator Richard Burr. This legislation represents the culmination of two years of bipartisan work within Congress on important issues of preparedness for all-hazards public health emergencies be they chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear threats as well as deliberate, accidental or natural disasters. "I am thrilled President Bush signed this important piece of legislation into law," said Senator Burr. "This law takes important steps to increase our preparedness and response capabilities for public health emergencies and it improves our ability to create new drugs and vaccines to fight against emergencies like a flu pandemic." The legislation improves our public health and medical preparedness for and responses to emergencies and disasters. Additionally, it enables the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to partner with universities, research institutions, and industry to bring more and better medical countermeasures to the public faster in case of emergency, such as a flu pandemic. Burr's bill reauthorizes the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which was signed into law following the terrorist attacks of September 11th. This law made important improvements in our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks and to care for a greater number of patients in an emergency. Burr's bill also builds on the Project BioShield Act of 2004 to accelerate advanced research and development of drugs and vaccines to protect the United States from health emergencies.
12.14.2006	12.14.06 Burr Announces Over $800,000 for Mayland Community College Funds will expand nursing, medical assistant training program U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced $899,000 in federal funds for Mayland Community College in Spruce Pine. The money will be used to build a new health sciences building, which will develop the college's nursing and medical assistant training program. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce through its Economic Development Administration. "I applaud Mayland Community College for playing an important role in helping Mitchell County's economy prosper," Burr said. "Their nursing and medical assistant program will help train North Carolinians so they can obtain well-paying jobs in the health care field." The health sciences building will allow the college to double the number of nursing students and medical assistants it currently trains. In recent years the surrounding area has lost more than 1,000 manufacturing jobs due to business closures. The enhanced nursing program will strengthen the region's economy by supporting existing medical and health-care facilities, as well as allow for the development of new heath related businesses. This program anticipates creating 133 jobs and generating almost $30 million in private investment 340 new jobs and generate over $37 million in private investment.
12.14.2006	12.14.06 Burr Announces $1 Million for Cleveland Community College Funds will expand allied health training program U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,000,000 in federal funds for Cleveland Community College in Shelby. The money will be used to build a new workforce training facility, which will enhance the college's allied health programs. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce through its Economic Development Administration. "I applaud Cleveland Community College for expanding its allied health program," Burr said. "These funds will provide Cleveland County citizens with more educational oppurtunities, which will lead to higher salaries and increased economic growth." The workforce training facility will house Cleveland Community College's health programs, science labs, additional classrooms and faculty offices, and a television production lab and studio for the broadcasting curriculum. The new facility is expected to create 340 new jobs and generate over $37 million in private investment.
12.14.2006	12.14.06 Burr Announces Over $4 Million to Prevent Homelessness in North Carolina Federal funds to help social service agencies provide support U.S. Senator Richard Burr today announced $4,296,152 in federal funds to help prevent homelessness, and feed and shelter North Carolina's homeless. The money was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency through their Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Organizations across North Carolina work hard every day to prevent homelessness and feed and shelter the homeless in their communities," Burr said. "I am pleased these FEMA funds will be used to support the social service agencies in our state." Congress appropriated $151 million for the EFS Program for FY 2007. This funding will support social service agencies in cities and counties across the country to help feed and shelter the Nation's hungry and homeless. EFS funds are used to supplement food, shelter, rent, mortgage, and utility assistance programs for people with non-disaster related emergencies. In June, Burr introduced the Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act. This legislation provides supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. It increases veterans' access to assistance for housing, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. Burr is also an original co-sponsor of the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act, which aims to reduce homelessness by providing supportive housing to chronically homeless individuals and families.
12.14.2006	12.14.06 Burr to Serve on Senate Intelligence Committee Washington, D.C. -U.S. Senator Richard Burr has been appointed to serve on the Select Committee on Intelligence for the 110th Congress set to begin in January. "I am pleased to have the opportunity to serve on the Senate Intelligence Committee," Burr said. "I was a member of the House Intelligence Committee for four years and look forward to now continuing my service on a committee that is so important to our national security during a critical time in our nation's history." The Intelligence Committee is responsible for providing oversight for federal government intelligence services and has jurisdiction on almost all intelligence matters, including nominations to intelligence services. In addition, Senator Burr will continue to serve on the Senate's Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, the Committee on Veterans Affairs, and the Committee on Indian Affairs. "These committee assignments will allow me to continue my work on issues like health care, energy, and education," Burr said. "I will continue to focus on supporting our military and veterans, increasing access to affordable health care, strengthening public education, improving public health emergency preparedness and response, and supporting meaningful energy and conservation policies." For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
12.09.2006	12.09.06 Burr Applauds Congress for Passing Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization Legislation to go to President’s desk to be signed into law; North Carolina to receive more equitable funding for individuals infected with HIV/AIDS WASHINGTON, D.C. - Early this morning the House passed H.R. 6143, the Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization legislation. The Senate passed the bill Wednesday and now the bill will go to the President's desk to be signed into law. "I am pleased my colleagues in Congress put aside their differences and voted to pass this important piece of legislation," Burr said. "North Carolina has a rising number of HIV/AIDS cases and this reauthorization ensures the money follows the patient so North Carolinians living with this disease can receive the assistance they need." The bill will provide more equitable distribution of Ryan White CARE Act funds to states with elevated rates of new HIV/AIDS infections, including North Carolina. The Ryan White CARE Act was initiated in 1990 to provide treatment and care for individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS who are in the greatest need of assistance. The Reauthorization legislation would provide more equitable distribution of CARE Act funds to emerging HIV/AIDS populations. Currently, Southern states, which account for a majority of HIV/AIDS cases in the nation, are being shortchanged in CARE Act funding. North Carolina has approximately 18,900 people living with HIV or AIDS. In 2004, 66.7% of people living with AIDS in North Carolina were African Americans, the 5th highest rate in the nation. North Carolina currently ranks 14th among states with the greatest number of AIDS cases in the nation. This bill reauthorizes the Ryan White CARE Act for three years and Senator Burr looks forward to improving the program so North Carolinians living with HIV or AIDS will receive the best assistance possible through the CARE Act. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. # # #
12.09.2006	12.09.06 Congress Passes Burr’s Bipartisan Biodefense and Pandemic Preparedness Legislation With house vote, legislation to go to President Bush’s desk to be signed into law WASHINGTON, D.C. - Early this morning, the House approved S. 3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act authored by Senator Richard Burr. The Senate passed the bill on Tuesday. The bill will go to the President's desk to be signed into law. "Senator Kennedy, many of my Senate colleagues, and I have worked together for almost two years to pass this legislation. I am so pleased the House agreed to pass it before Congress adjourned and I look forward to the President signing it into law," said Senator Burr. "This bill will help improve our preparedness and response to emergencies and disasters be they a terrorist attack, or caused by Mother Nature," Burr said. "It will also help improve our ability to create new drugs and vaccines to fight against emergencies like a flu pandemic." The legislation improves our public health and medical preparedness for and responses to emergencies and disasters. Additionally, it enables the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to partner with universities, research institutions, and industry to bring more and better medical countermeasures to the public faster in case of emergency, such as a flu pandemic. -MORE- Senator Burr 12/9/06 Page 2 of 2 Burr's bill reauthorizes the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which was signed into law following the terrorist attacks of September 11th. This law made important improvements in our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks and to care for a greater number of patients in an emergency. Burr's bill also builds on the Project BioShield Act of 2004 to accelerate advanced research and development of drugs and vaccines to protect the United States from health emergencies. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
12.06.2006	12.06.06 Burr Applauds Senate Confirmation of Robert Gates to be Secretary of Defense WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement regarding Dr. Robert Gates' confirmation to be U.S. Secretary of Defense: "I applaud my Senate colleagues for confirming Dr. Gates quickly. It is important we fill this critical position. Dr. Gates is well-qualified and has had a distinguished career. He is well respected in the intelligence community and has demonstrated a strong commitment to pubic service. Dr. Gates will bring a fresh perspective to our strategy in Iraq. I am confident Dr. Gates understands the need for a free and stable Iraq and that he will work tirelessly toward success there." # # #
12.06.2006	12.06.06 Burr Statement on Iraq Study Group Report WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement regarding the Iraq Study Group Report: "I applaud James Baker, Lee Hamilton, and the panel members for their hard work and dedication in producing a thorough report. The report provides a comprehensive assessment of the situation in Iraq and mirrors many of my observations after visiting Iraq in September. At that time my concerns were: security, infrastructure, and the stability of a unity government. The report brings forth some interesting proposals that I look forward to discussing with my colleagues in the Senate. I am confident there are actions which can be taken to improve the situation in Iraq. I continue to believe it is in the best interest of the Iraqi people, the United States, and global security that we remain committed to supporting a free and stable Iraq. I hope in the near future Iraq will take on more responsibility for its own security and the Iraqi army will take over combat operations, allowing our troops to play a greater support role in the region." # # #
12.06.2006	12.06.06 Burr Applauds Senate for Passing Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization North Carolina to receive more equitable funding for individuals infected with HIV/AIDS WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today thanked his Senate colleagues for putting aside differences and passing H.R. 6143, the Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization legislation. The bill will provide more equitable distribution of Ryan White CARE Act funds to states with elevated rates of new HIV/AIDS infections, including North Carolina. The Ryan White CARE Act was initiated in 1990 to provide treatment and care for individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS who are in the greatest need of assistance. The Reauthorization legislation would provide more equitable distribution of CARE Act funds to emerging HIV/AIDS populations. Currently, Southern states, which account for a majority of HIV/AIDS cases in the nation, are being shortchanged in CARE Act funding. "It is unacceptable that North Carolina's waiting list for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program has been close to 1,000 patients in recent years," Burr said. "Redistributing Ryan White funds will ensure residents of North Carolina living with HIV/AIDS will have better access to the medications and treatments they need to live. I am so pleased we were able to find a way to pass this bill. Thousands of patients need this funding." North Carolina has approximately 18,900 people living with HIV or AIDS. In 2004, 66.7% of people living with AIDS in North Carolina were African Americans, the 5th highest rate in the nation. North Carolina currently ranks 14th among states with the greatest number of AIDS cases in the nation. The South has been particularly hard hit by the disease in recent years, with seven of the nation's 10 highest AIDS rates located in the region. Most of the growth is occurring in the African American population, especially among African American women. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates about 40,000 people in the United States become infected with HIV each year, and more than 1 million Americans currently have HIV/AIDS. Over 500,000 Americans have died as a result of AIDS. "I strongly believe people suffering from HIV/AIDS, no matter where they live, should get proper medications in order to improve their health and quality of life," Burr said. "I am pleased my colleagues in the Senate recognized that this issue is about saving lives and ensuring all HIV/AIDS patients get the care they need." This bill reauthorizes the Ryan White CARE Act for three years and Senator Burr looks forward to improving the program so North Carolinians living with HIV or AIDS will receive the best assistance possible through the CARE Act. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. # # #
12.05.2006	12.05.06 Senate Passes Burr’s Bipartisan Biodefense and Pandemic Preparedness Legislation Legislation to improve emergency public health and medical preparedness and response; includes key provisions to develop new drug and vaccine countermeasures WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today the Senate approved S. 3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act authored by Senator Richard Burr. The legislation improves our public health and medical preparedness for and responses to emergencies and disasters. Additionally, it enables the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to partner with universities, research institutions, and industry to bring more and better medical countermeasures to the public faster in case of emergency, such as a flu pandemic. Burr has been working on the bill for almost two years. Co-sponsors include Senators Enzi, Kennedy, Gregg, Frist, Harkin, Alexander, Mikulski, Isakson, DeWine, Hatch, Clinton, Roberts, Chambliss, and Bayh. "We learned from Hurricane Katrina and 9/11 that we need an all-hazards approach to public health and medical disasters," said Senator Burr. "The threats of terrorism, infectious disease, and natural disasters highlight the need for an even stronger public health and medical infrastructure equipped to respond to emergencies of all kinds be they deliberate, accidental, or natural. I am pleased the Senate passed this bill and I am hopeful the House can take it up this week," Burr added. Burr's bill reauthorizes the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which was signed into law following the terrorist attacks of September 11th. This law made important improvements in our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks and to care for a greater number of patients in an emergency. Burr's bill also builds on the Project BioShield Act of 2004 to accelerate advanced research and development of drugs and vaccines to protect the United States from health emergencies. Specifically, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act: Puts Someone in Charge • The bill identifies the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services as the lead federal official responsible for public health and medical response to emergencies which will help eliminate confusion and chaos, and increase accountability and predictability. • The bill unifies HHS preparedness and response programs under a re-named Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, which will ensure someone in the federal government, is constantly improving the country's preparedness. The legislation also moves the National Disaster Medical System from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to HHS which will help unify medical preparedness and response activities. Provides Funds for State and Local Preparedness • The bill reauthorizes over $1 billion per year in federal funding through grants from HHS for state and local public health and medical preparedness. • The bill stresses accountability by requiring HHS to establish evidence-based benchmarks and performance standards to measure progress, and it requires States to measure and report on these activities. • The legislation also focuses on strategies to address the public health and medical needs of at-risk individuals, including children and senior citizens, who have special needs during an emergency. Improves Public Health Security • The legislation builds the foundation for a uniform public health security system that is robust and trained to address all-hazards public health emergencies. Public health departments across the country have varying abilities to identify a case of bird flu and contain its spread. This bill establishes a set of key capabilities all health departments must strive for. • The bill also modernizes how public health departments detect, respond to, and manage public health threats, by collecting instant electronic information which will enable public health officials to make informed decisions before, during, and after a public health emergency. • The bill further strengthens the nation's public health infrastructure by offering loan repayments to recruit and train a stronger public health workforce, capable of responding to emergencies. This will help address the public health workforce shortage, including the 45% of the workforce that is expected to retire in the next few years. Speeds Up Emergency Medical Response • The legislation improves training, logistics, and planning for health care providers and volunteers to ensure emergency medical care can be delivered faster during a disaster. • The bill promotes the use of mobile hospitals and alternative federal facilities which can help handle an increased number of patients during an emergency. • The bill makes it easier for health care providers to volunteer in emergency situations and it enables the Secretary of HHS to provide liability protections for approved volunteers. Develops More Medical Countermeasures • The bill improves our ability to quickly develop countermeasures to protect against deadly threats such as pandemic flu and bioterrorism. The process for developing a new drug or vaccine still takes up to a decade and costs hundreds of millions of dollars. • The legislation reorganizes and enhances HHS medical countermeasure research, development, and procurement activities. The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) will be an aggressive venture capitalist partnering with universities, research institutions and industry on the advanced development of promising drugs and vaccines. The Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, chaired by Senator Burr, held thirteen public hearings and roundtables prior to the introduction of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act. The hearings explored improvements in medical disaster response, current and future threats, and barriers to the development of effective medical countermeasures against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents. In June, Senator Burr also held a field hearing on public health preparedness in New Orleans, Louisiana to evaluate the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. In September, Senator Burr hosted a demonstration of Carolinas MED-1 mobile hospital on the Capitol grounds. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
11.21.2006	11.21.06 Holiday Season Gives Occasion to Support Our Troops Holiday Season Gives Occasion to Support Our Troops by Richard Burr Each holiday season we get caught up in a flurry of activity. We buy gifts for our loved ones, attend holiday parties, and entertain our family and friends. Often the holidays come and go in a blur and the New Year has arrived and we wonder where the time went. This year I want to challenge you to take a moment to reflect on an important part of the holiday season: the gift of giving. Today, our men and women in uniform are fighting the War on Terror and sacrificing their lives so we may live in freedom. They are spending their holidays away from their families and many soldiers have returned home to difficult circumstances or with injuries impacting their daily lives and the lives of their families. Many families have lost loved ones and sadly will be spending the holiday season without sons or daughters, mothers or fathers. This year rather than hosting a holiday party in your office or home, I encourage families, businesses, organizations, and communities across North Carolina to support our troops and their families. Personally, instead of throwing a holiday party with my staff, I am donating the money which would have been spent on the parties to military support organizations in our state. There are many efforts we can make to put a smile on a service member's face, lift morale, and show appreciation for their sacrifices. For example, we can send care packages to soldiers, support scholarship programs for military children, or assist the wounded when they return home. There are many ways to support our men and women in the Armed Forces. The U.S. Department of Defense has launched a website http://155.7.40.58/americasupportsyou/StateSupport.aspx?ID=nc which is dedicated to recognizing citizen support for our military men and women at home and abroad. The website lists over 150 non-profit organizations dedicated to helping our troops and their families and it has a webpage dedicated to North Carolina's non-profit military organizations. You may also visit my website at https://www.burr.senate.gov for more information. By helping our troops and their families this year in lieu of throwing a holiday party they will know firsthand how much North Carolinians appreciate their service and sacrifice. North Carolina is home to 120,000 military personnel and over 770,000 veterans. I am proud North Carolina has the reputation for being the most military friendly state in the country. This holiday season let's show them why we have earned that reputation.
11.13.2006	11.13.06 Burr Announces Federal Grant Workshop in Hickory Event to focus on improving access to federal grants for North Carolina’s museums and libraries WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced his office will sponsor a statewide federal grant workshop in Hickory to focus on improving access to federal grants for museums and libraries. The workshop will be held on Thursday, November 30, 2006 at 9:00 AM at the Arts and Science Center of Catawba Valley located at 243 Third Avenue, Northeast in Hickory. The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's museums and libraries and will include speakers from federal government departments. "Libraries and museums are cornerstones of learning in every North Carolina community. They enhance cultural heritage, increase civic participation and create life-long educational opportunities in the areas they serve," said Senator Burr. "I hope this workshop will provide North Carolina's museum and library personnel with a better understanding of the federal grants process so they can continue to make a positive impact on those they serve." Senator Burr has invited representatives from the Institute of Museum and Library Services, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the National Endowment for the Arts to speak at the workshop. This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In January, Senator Burr hosted the first Economic Development Summit in Raleigh which focused on providing federal grant information to North Carolina's community colleges. Senator Burr also hosted a workshop in Washington, DC which focused on access to grants for fire and rescue teams and a workshop in Fayetteville which focused on access to grants for faith-based and community organizations. In July he hosted an Economic Development Summit in Charlotte which focused on health care. The workshop is free and open to the public. Pre-registration is requested. North Carolina museum and library personnel who wish to attend the workshop can register online at https://www.burr.senate.gov/register or contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154 by Monday, November 27, 2006. # # #
11.08.2006	11.08.06 Burr Statement on Secretary Rumsfeld’s Resignation WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's resignation: "Secretary Rumsfeld has had a distinguished career in public service. He has served our country with honor and has been a disciplined leader during a critical period in the War on Terror. This change will provide a fresh perspective on our strategy in Iraq and our path toward success there. I applaud President Bush's nomination of Dr. Robert Gates to serve as Secretary Rumsfeld's successor at the Department of Defense. Dr. Gates has notable career accomplishments at the Central Intelligence Agency and will bring a new outlook to the position. I urge my Senate colleagues to give Dr. Gates timely consideration." # # #
11.03.2006	11.03.06 Burr Applauds Guilford County Schools for Receiving Over $8 Million in Education Funds Funds to be used to recruit and retain teachers WASHINGTON, DC - United States Senator Richard Burr today applauded Guilford County schools for receiving $8,000,005 in federal funding. The grant was awarded through the United States Department of Education's Teacher Incentive Fund, which aims to improve student achievement by increasing the number of effective teachers for minority and disadvantaged students. "I believe investing in education is one of the best ways to secure a bright future for North Carolina. A good education ensures that North Carolina's students are better prepared for the work force. I applaud Guilford County for rewarding teachers for doing a good job," Burr said. "These funds will help recruit and retain more teachers which will ultimately help students achieve academic success." The grant will be used to expand Guilford County Schools' Mission Possible teacher incentive program to additional schools. Mission Possible was developed to attract and retain teachers for select schools and to reward teachers for outstanding results. Teachers and administrators in the program are placed in high-need, disadvantaged schools, where teacher and administrative turnover has often been high and which are not making ABC or AYP academic standards. For more information go to http://burr.senate.gov. # # #
11.01.2006	11.01.06 Burr Announces Over $10 Million in Housing Assistance Grants for North Carolina Communities Funds will help expand housing opportunities for the elderly and disabled United States Senator Richard Burr today announced $10,066,700 in federal funding for six North Carolina supportive housing groups. The funds were awarded by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities and Supportive Housing for the Elderly Programs, which aim to expand housing opportunities for the elderly and the disabled. "U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development funds provide housing opportunities to North Carolina's elderly and disabled populations who need it most," Burr said. "I applaud the hard work and dedication of the supportive housing groups in our state. Their contributions make North Carolina's communities a better place to work and live." North Carolina supportive housing grant recipients will use the funds to build, acquire, or renovate rental housing for people who are disabled or elderly. Funds will also be used to lower rent for low-income tenants. The following groups received federal funding from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development: • Metropolitan Housing & CDC, Inc. in Roxboro received $3,307,700.00. • St. Joseph's of the Pines in Red Springs received $3,319,700.00. • Arc of North Carolina, Inc. in Salisbury received $800,800.00. • Arc of North Carolina, Inc. in Charlotte received $500,500.00. • MHA in NC, Inc. in Wilmington received $483,100.00. • Abilities of Florida, Inc. in Fayetteville received $1,654,900.00.
10.19.2006	10.19.06 Burr Announces Over $1 Million for Chapel Hill Firefighters Funds to be used to hire additional firefighters Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,240,748 in federal funding for the Chapel Hill Fire Department. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which aims to increase the staffing and deployment capabilities of fire departments. "Firefighters risk their lives every day to help others," Burr said. "This grant will allow the Chapel Hill Fire Department to hire additional personnel which will improve firefighter safety and enhance emergency response times." The Chapel Hill Fire Department will use the funds to hire twelve additional firefighters. This grant is the result of a larger initiative by the Chapel Hill Town Council which seeks to improve fire safety by hiring additional staff. Last year the fire department hired six new firefighters. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program is part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program, which supports firefighters and the services they deliver. For more information go to http://burr.senate.gov.
10.19.2006	10.19.06 Burr Announces Over $1 Million for New Bern Firefighters Funds to be used to hire additional firefighters Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,117,375 in federal funding for the City of New Bern Fire Department. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which aims to increase the staffing and deployment capabilities of fire departments. "I applaud the New Bern Fire Department for using these funds to better prepare its community for an emergency," Burr said. "Local fire departments are one of the first to respond in a time of need. The additional personnel provided by this grant will improve emergency response times in New Bern." The New Bern Fire Department will use the funds to hire twelve additional firefighters. This will allow the fire department to staff four firefighters on every fire engine operating in the city. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program is part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program, which supports firefighters and the services they deliver. For more information go to http://burr.senate.gov.
09.29.2006	09.29.06 Burr Applauds Nomination of Three North Carolinians for District Court Judgeships FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Laura Caudell Friday, September 29, 2006 Phone: (202) 224-3154 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Richard Burr today applauded President Bush's nomination of Martin Reidinger of Asheville to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District, and William Osteen, Jr. of Greensboro and Thomas Schroeder of Winston-Salem to be U.S. District Court Judges for the Middle District. "Martin Reidinger, Bill Osteen, and Tom Schroeder have the character and integrity to serve as federal judges who will make North Carolina proud," Burr said. "These nominees have strong credentials and would administer justice within the strict interpretation of the law and the Constitution." Martin Reidinger has had a well-respected civil law practice in western North Carolina for more than 20 years. Mr. Reidinger earned his undergraduate and law degree with honors from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. William Osteen, Jr., earned both his undergraduate and law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has practiced law in Greensboro for almost 20 years handling both criminal and civil cases. Thomas Schroeder is currently a partner at Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge, and Rice, PLLC, and has handled numerous high profile commercial and complex litigation cases across the United States. He earned his law degree from the University of Notre Dame Law School. "I urge my Senate colleagues to give these nominees timely consideration," Burr added. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
09.27.2006	09.27.06 Burr Hosts Roundtable on Improving Emergency Medical Care Lack of beds, long waits, diverted ambulances indicate problems with system Washington, D.C. - Today at a Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness roundtable, U.S. Senator Richard Burr brought together experts to discuss the crisis patients and health care providers face each day in emergency rooms across the country. The roundtable, entitled Crisis in the ER: How Can We Improve Emergency Medical Care?, addressed how to improve emergency medical care by reducing overcrowding in emergency rooms, and improving coordination and integration. "Across the nation, our emergency care system has difficulty meeting daily demands such as lack of inpatient beds, patients waiting in hallways and diverted ambulances. If our emergency rooms are stretched thin now, how will they provide medical care in the event of a disaster?" Burr said. "Our emergency care safety net is at risk. We must identify ways to reduce overcrowding and improve coordination." In June, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) released a report calling for a more coordinated, regionalized, and accountable emergency care system. The report found that this vision for emergency care is impeded because the federal programs that support emergency health care are not centralized, and are dispersed among the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Transportation (DOT), and Homeland Security (DHS). Long before the IOM report was released, North Carolina already had a coordinated and regionalized emergency care system in place. In 1998, a statewide trauma system which is subdivided into regional advisory committees was created. By law every hospital and EMS provider in North Carolina must affiliate with a trauma center. The resulting regional coordination and improved communication has helped North Carolina respond to disasters like the West Pharmaceutical explosion in January 2003. According to the report, emergency rooms across the country are increasingly overcrowded, the waits are long, and some patients may be transported great distances to receive the specialized care they need. There is a widening gap between the demands on the system and the capacity to provide adequate care. Over the last ten years, emergency department visits by patients have increased by 26% while the number of fully functional emergency departments decreased by nearly10%. These are staggering statistics considering trauma is the leading cause of death in the United States for people under age 45. Senator Burr, chairman of the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness along with 13 bipartisan cosponsors introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (S. 3678) which will improve the quality and delivery of emergency care during a disaster. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov. # # #
09.26.2006	09.26.06 Burr calls on Senate to Consider Bi-partisan Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization Urges opponents of bill to allow for debate, vote WASHINGTON, DC --- Today Senator Burr called on the Senate to take up the Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization. In a procedural move this afternoon, opponents of the legislation prevented the full Senate from considering and voting on the Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization. "The inability to bring up this legislation in the Senate means we can't even debate this bill. People with HIV/AIDS are depending on us. We need to change this unfair funding formula," Burr said. The Ryan White CARE Act was initiated in 1990 to provide treatment and care for individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS who are in the greatest need of assistance. The legislation must be reauthorized every five years. The Reauthorization legislation would provide more equitable distribution of CARE Act funds to emerging HIV/AIDS populations. Currently, Southern states, which account for a majority of HIV/AIDS cases in the nation, are being shortchanged in CARE Act funding. "The Ryan White CARE Act exists to protect and support those living with HIV/AIDS. In North Carolina there are over 18,000 residents living with this disease and yet they cannot get the medications and treatments they need because the state does not receive adequate Ryan White funding. These funds must be distributed more evenly so all patients, not just those living in New York, San Francisco, and Boston, can receive the care they need," Burr said. U.S. Senator Richard Burr spoke on the Senate floor about the merits of the bipartisan legislation and urged that the legislation be called up for debate and a vote. Opponents objected and blocked the legislation. In June, the Senate HELP Committee passed the legislation out of committee with only one dissenting vote.
09.14.2006	09.14.06 Burr Announces Over $1 Million for Monroe Firefighters Funds used to hire additional firefighters Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,175,290 in federal funding for the Monroe Fire Department. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which aims to increase the staffing and deployment capabilities of fire departments. "I applaud the Monroe Fire Department for using these funds to better prepare our communities for an emergency," Burr said. "Local fire departments are one of the first to respond in a time of need. The additional firefighters provided by this grant will improve the City of Monroe's emergency response times." The Monroe Fire Department will use the funds to hire twelve additional firefighters. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program is part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program, which supports firefighters and the services they deliver. For more information go to http://burr.senate.gov.
09.14.2006	09.14.06 Senators Burr, Sessions, and Coburn Call for More Equitable Ryan White CARE Act HIV/AIDS Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), and Tom Coburn, MD (R-OK) today called for more equitable distribution of Ryan White CARE Act funds, saying the funding disparities and the elevated rate of new HIV/AIDS infections among Southern rural and minority populations must be addressed. Currently, Southern states, which now account for a majority of HIV/AIDS cases in the nation, are being shortchanged in Ryan White CARE Act funding. The three senators raised the issue at a news conference sponsored by the National Minority Health Month Foundation and the Southern AIDS Coalition. Ryan White CARE Act funding provides medical care, anti-retroviral treatments, counseling and testing, and other services for HIV/AIDS patients. "Ryan White CARE Act funding must be distributed more equally among states. North Carolina's waiting list for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program has been close to 1,000 in recent years. This is unacceptable," Burr said. "The Ryan White CARE Act exists to protect and support those living with HIV and AIDS. In North Carolina, we have approximately 18,900 residents living with HIV and AIDS. It is time for Ryan White funds to be distributed more evenly so all patients, not just those living in New York, San Francisco and Boston, can receive the care they need." A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation found that several funding schemes in the current Ryan White CARE Act program discriminate against rural and Southern states. States with large metropolitan areas benefit from "double counting" in which those with AIDS who live in cities are counted twice—once under title I (large metropolitan area CARE Act funding) and again under title II (state CARE Act funding). Funds are currently being distributed based upon cases of AIDS, the end stage of HIV infection, rather than cases of HIV and AIDS. Those living with HIV in Southern states represent the emerging epidemic and therefore are not counted in CARE Act federal funding formulas. Finally, while shortchanged Southern states have been forced to implement waiting lists and other restrictions for AIDS drugs, GAO found that at least one metropolitan area—San Francisco—receives funding for dead people and is provided twice the amount of funding per AIDS cases as every other area. "It is time for HIV and AIDS patients to receive equitable treatment regardless of where they live," Sessions said. "Geography should not be a death sentence, and the South in particular has gotten the short end of the stick. Right now Alabama's patients receive far less assistance than those in big cities, even though Alabama's HIV rate is above the national HIV rate. Lives are on the line and I am committed to moving this legislation forward so that patients in Alabama and every state receive fair funding." Senator Coburn, a physician who has treated patients with HIV over the past two decades, stated "Congress should put the lives of all those living with HIV ahead of petty parochial and political interests that have stalled the CARE Act reauthorization for the past year and pass the compromise bill before October 1. It is unacceptable that federal funding is being allocated for dead people in one area, while patients in other areas are literally dying on waiting lists for AIDS drugs. The CARE Act must be updated to ensure access to treatment for all Americans living with HIV, promote early diagnosis, and provide more equitable funding that reflects the face of HIV/AIDS today. The discrimination that renders Americans living with HIV in rural and Southern states as having only a fraction of the worth of those living elsewhere must end." The South has been particularly hard hit in recent years, with seven of the nation's 10 highest AIDS rates located in the region. Most of the growth is occurring in the African American population, especially among African American women. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates about 40,000 people in the United States become infected with HIV each year, and more than 1 million Americans currently have HIV/AIDS. Over 500,000 Americans have died as a result of AIDS. North Carolina has approximately 18,900 people living with HIV or AIDS. In 2004, 66.7% of people living with AIDS in North Carolina were African Americans, the 5th highest rate in the nation. North Carolina currently ranks 14th among states with the greatest number of AIDS cases in the nation. Alabama has more than 10,000 people living with HIV. Another 5,000 may also be infected, but they don't know their HIV status. While African Americans make up about 26 percent of Alabama's population, they account for over 70 percent of new HIV/AIDS cases. Further, a third of all new infections are among women of childbearing age. And unfortunately, the South has the highest death rate from AIDS of any area in the country. The Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization (S. 2823) legislation was favorably voted out of the Senate HELP Committee in May with only a single dissenting vote. It is awaiting action by the full Senate. # # #
09.13.2006	09.13.06 Burr Hosts Carolinas MED-1 Mobile Hospital Demonstration at U.S. Capitol Event focused on capabilities of North Carolina mobile hospital during a public health or medical emergency WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today hosted a demonstration of Carolinas MED-1 mobile hospital capabilities on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol. U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Mike Leavitt and Congresswoman Sue Myrick joined Senator Burr at the demonstration. The event highlighted the capabilities of mobile medical assets during a public health or medical emergency. Carolinas MED-1 mobile hospital is based in Charlotte and is part of Carolinas Medical Center. "One of the most critical issues our country is faced with during a disaster is the ability of patients to get medical care," Burr said. "Mobile medical units, like Carolinas MED-1, provide on-site, comprehensive medical care during a public health or medical emergency." MED-1 was developed to provide the necessary level of care when disasters or mass casualty incidents occur. The mobile unit has a two bed operating room, a four bed intensive care unit, an eight bed emergency department, X-ray, lab and pharmacy capabilities and an integrated awning system supporting an additional 150 beds. In response to Hurricane Katrina, MED-1 was deployed to Waveland, Mississippi and treated more than 7,500 patients during the seven weeks the local hospital was closed to patients. MED-1 was mobilized to New Orleans last winter to help accommodate the medical surge capacity needs in the aftermath of Katrina. MED-1 is an example of the kind of mobile medical treatment facility the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (S. 3678) will support. This bipartisan legislation aims to improve our public health and medical preparedness and responses during emergencies and disasters. "I am pleased communities in North Carolina, like Charlotte, have made sure citizens can receive medical care in the event of a disaster by using mobile medical hospitals," Burr added. "This mobile hospital reminds us that seconds count during emergency situations," Secretary Leavitt said. "It is reassuring to know that in those instances when time is critical, health care can continue to be delivered." Senator Burr is the Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness and introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act in July. This bill was approved unanimously by the Senate HELP Committee in July and is pending full Senate consideration. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
09.12.2006	09.12.06 Senator Burr Comments on Recent Iraq Visit Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), David Vitter (R-LA) and Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) commented today on their recent visit to Iraq. While there, the senators met with troops, leading U.S. Army generals and Iraqi government leaders. "Iraq continues to be a very challenging situation. But Gen Casey's Baghdad Security Plan is a good one, and we're cautiously optimistic that the violence will come down as in the past month," Burr said. "To further stabilize the situation, we believe it's essential that Congress reaffirm our commitment to the Iraqi people, not question that commitment, and that we make sure basic services like electricity, water, and sewerage improve," added Coburn. "It's clearer to us than ever that Iraq is a key battle in the war on radical Islamic terrorism - a battle we must win," said Vitter. In addition to meeting with security officials, each senator also visited with the troops from his respective state. # # #
09.08.2006	09.08.06 Burr to Host Carolinas MED-1 Mobile Hospital Demonstration at U.S. Capitol Event to highlight capabilities of North Carolina mobile hospital during a public health or medical emergency WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr will host a demonstration of the Carolinas MED-1 Mobile Hospital at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, September 13. U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Mike Leavitt and Congresswoman Sue Myrick (R-NC) will join Senator Burr at the event. The demonstration will highlight the capabilities of mobile medical assets during a public health or medical emergency. Carolinas MED-1 mobile hospital is based in Charlotte and is part of Carolinas Medical Center. MED-1 was deployed to the Gulf Coast in response to Hurricane Katrina and again last winter to New Orleans to assist in the continuing struggle to accommodate medical surge capacity needs in the aftermath of Katrina. WHO: U.S. Senator Richard Burr, Secretary Leavitt, and Congresswoman Sue Myrick WHAT: Carolinas MED-1 Mobile Hospital Demonstration tour and press avail WHEN: Wednesday, September 13, 2006 11:30 AM Senator Burr, Secretary Leavitt, and Congresswoman Myrick will tour the mobile hospital with press 12:00 PM Senator Burr delivers brief remarks highlighting the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act; Senator Burr, Secretary Leavitt, and Congresswoman Myrick will participate in press avail WHERE: U.S. Capitol, west side of the Capitol Building, near the Botanic Garden and the Capitol Reflecting Pool. As Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, Senator Burr has introduced the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act. The legislation aims to improve our public health and medical preparedness and responses during emergencies and disasters. # # #
08.29.2006	08.29.06 Burr Presents Congressional Award Medals to Local Students WASHINGTON - Senator Richard Burr presented Congressional Award Medals to five local students in an award ceremony last Thursday at Forsyth Technical Community College in Winston-Salem. To receive a Gold, Silver, or Bronze Congressional Award Medal each participant must set and achieve goals in four areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. "I am proud of the many contributions these students make in their communities and schools," Burr said. "Their commitment to helping others and dedication to serving their communities will ensure they grow up to become active and devoted citizens." The following students were presented awards: • Michael Atkins, Jr. of Pikeville received a Bronze and Silver Medal. Michael volunteered extensively as a mentor for younger children, while working towards his Silver Medal. Literacy was his focus. For his Personal Development, Michael learned more about the aspects of putting on a theatrical production, especially the technical aspect. To keep fit, Michael ran track and cross-country. For his Expedition/Exploration, Michael stayed on a farm for two nights. • Margaret Douglas of Winston-Salem received a Bronze Medal. Margaret volunteered with children and at her school, while working towards her Bronze Medal. For her Personal Development, Margaret learned more about the history, geography, and topography of America by attending a Grand Western Tour for five weeks. She also furthered her knowledge of theater production. To keep fit, Margaret played field hockey and soccer. Finally, for her Expedition/Exploration, Margaret planned an overnight camping trip. • Alston Harris of Clemmons received a Bronze Medal. Alston volunteered 100 hours at the Habitat for Humanity Restore, while working on his Bronze Medal. At the Habitat for Humanity Restore, Alston helped customers find what they needed as well as rearranging tiles and shelves. For his Personal Development, Alston achieved the Eagle Scout Rank with the Boy Scouts of America. To keep fit, Alston ran and did sit-ups and push-ups. Finally, for his Expedition/Exploration, Alston planned a one-night expedition. Alston was joined by his brother Cameron Harris who was presented the Congressional Award Gold Medal by Senator Burr in Washington, D.C. on June 21, 2006. • Eleanor Hoppe of Winston-Salem received a Bronze Medal. Eleanor volunteered at the Salemtowne Retirement Community. She also assisted at the Children's Center where she would take the children to the fair and to see Santa Claus during the holidays. For her Personal Development, Eleanor improved her public speaking skills and prepared for a new high school. To keep fit, Eleanor participated in both soccer and basketball. Finally, for her Expedition/Exploration, Eleanor planned an overnight camping trip. • John Lovette of Winston-Salem received a Bronze and Silver Medal. While working towards his Silver Medal, John participated in a variety of activities including assisting children in the community by helping at the recreation center and teaching a computer class for senior citizens. For his Personal Development, John developed skills as a web designer and earned his solo wings in a powered aircraft. To keep fit, John lifted weights and ran. For his Expedition/Exploration, John attended the Middle East Region Search and Rescue College with the Civil Air Patrol. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement, and service in young people. It began as a bipartisan effort in both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives. The Congressional Award is a private-public partnership which receives all funding from the private sector and was originally signed into law by President Jimmy Carter. Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush, and Bill Clinton have signed continuing legislation. North Carolina currently has over 500 young people working towards a Congressional Award Medal. Since 1998, North Carolina has had over 70 medalists. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
08.17.2006	08.17.06 Burr Announces Visits Over August Recess Senator Richard Burr will visit Avery, Ashe, Cabarrus, Catawba, Davie, Forsyth, Iredell, Lincoln, Mitchell, Watauga and Yancey counties during the August Recess. Burr will tour health care facilities, visit non-profit organizations, meet with local elected officials, and deliver remarks to civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, August 21 10:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Metal Sales Manufacturing Corporation Metal Sales Manufacturing Corporation 188 Quality Drive Mocksville, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 11:15 AM 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Statesville Chamber of Commerce Statesville Civic Center 300 South Center Street Statesville, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Smith's Aerospace Smith's Aerospace 4 Professional Drive West Jefferson, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 3:45 PM 4:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Boone Water Project Boone Town Hall 567 West King Street Boone, North Carolina Tuesday, August 22 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Lees-McRae College Lees-McRae College The Rock House 191 Main Street West Banner Elk, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Bombardier Inc. Bombardier Inc. 1211 Greenwood Road Spruce Pines, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 12:15 PM 1:00 PM Senator Burr to visit the Penland School of Crafts Penland School of Crafts Visitors Center 67 Dora's Trail Penland, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Glenn Raven Mills Glenn Raven Mills Highway 19 East Burnsville, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 4:15 PM Wednesday, August 23 9:30 AM Senator Burr to participate in USDA Rural Development event in Catawba Catawba Town Hall 102 1st Street, NW Catawba, North Carolina 2:15 PM Senator Burr to visit FMC Corporation in Bessemer City FMC Corporation Highway 161 Bessemer City, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 3:30 PM Thursday, August 24 10:00 AM Senator Burr to present military medals to the family of William H. Reynolds of Mount Airy Office of Senator Richard Burr 2000 West First Street, Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 11:30 AM Senator Burr to address the Pilot View Resource Conservation & Development Annual Awards Lunch Piedmont Club 200 West 2nd Street Winston-Salem, North Carolina 6:00 PM Senator Burr to deliver remarks at the Arthritis Foundation Event Bermuda Run Country Club 324 Bermuda Run Drive Bermuda Run, North Carolina # # #
08.11.2006	08.11.06 Burr Announces Visits Over August Recess Senator Richard Burr will visit Avery, Bladen, Catawba, Columbus, Duplin, Durham, Forsyth, Gaston, Iredell, Johnston, Lenoir, Lincoln, Mitchell, New Hanover, Pitt, Sampson, Wayne, Wilson and Yancey counties during the August Recess. Burr will tour health care facilities, visit non-profit organizations, meet with local elected officials, and deliver remarks to civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, August 14 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Merck Vaccine Manufacturing Facility in Durham Merck Vaccine Manufacturing Facility 5325 Old Oxford Road Durham, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 10:45 AM. 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Smithfield Chamber of Commerce Medical Arts Mall 514 North Bright Leaf Boulevard Smithfield, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 1:00 PM. 1:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Central Marketing Tobacco Warehouse 1416 Wal-Pat Road Smithfield, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Kidde Aerospace Kidde Aerospace 4200 Airport Drive Northwest Wilson, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 4:15 PM. Tuesday, August 15 8:30 AM Senator Burr to address the Greenville Chamber of Commerce Greenville Country Club 216 Country Club Drive Greenville, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 9:30 AM. 10:30 AM Senator Burr to participate in USDA ribbon cutting event Deerview Apartments 733 A Boulevard Street Ayden, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to address the Goldsboro Rotary Club Goldsboro Country Club 1501 South Slocumb Street Goldsboro, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 1:30 PM. 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Pate Dawson Company Pate Dawson Company 402 Commerce Court Goldsboro, North Carolina 4:15 PM Senator Burr to visit Kinston Community Health Center Kinston Community Health Center 324 North Queen Street Kinston, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 5:15 PM. Wednesday, August 16 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Calypso Volunteer Fire Department Calypso Volunteer Fire Department 109 Southeast Center Street Calypso, North Carolina 10:45 AM Senator Burr to visit Carolina East Home and Hospice Project Duplin Commons 165 Agriculture Drive Kenansville, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Dublin Volunteer Fire Department Dublin Volunteer Fire Department 324 3rd Street Dublin, North Carolina 4:45 PM Senator Burr to participate in USDA check presentation to the Inn d'Vine in Tabor City Inn d'Vine 4903 Ramsey Ford Road Tabor City, North Carolina Thursday, August 17 9:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in groundbreaking event and check presentation at Clinton High School Clinton High School 1201 West Elizabeth Street Clinton, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Wilmington Rotary Club Roudabush Restaurant 31 South Front Street Wilmington, North Carolina Senator Burr will participate in a media availability at 1:00 PM. 2:15 PM Senator Burr to visit the Port of Wilmington Port of Wilmington 2202 Burnett Boulevard Wilmington, North Carolina Friday, August 18 11:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Arvin Meritor in Laurinburg 22021 Skyway Church Road Laurinburg, North Carolina
08.10.2006	08.10.06 Burr Announces Over $600,000 for North Carolina Fire Departments Senator Richard Burr today announced $648,807 in grants to nine North Carolina fire departments. Funds were awarded through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which aims to support firefighters and the services they deliver. The United States Department of Homeland Security awarded the funds. "I applaud North Carolina's firefighters for using these funds to better prepare our communities for an emergency," Burr said. "Local fire departments are one of the first to respond in a time of crisis. These funds will help our firefighters improve their preparedness for emergencies." Ahoskie Rural Fire Department in Ahoskie received $18,236 in federal funds. Pine Level Volunteer Fire Department in Pine Level received $15,428 in federal funds. Denton Fire Department in Denton received $110,299 in federal funds. Castle Hayne Volunteer Fire Department in Castle Hayne received $32,233 in federal funds. Oak Island Fire Department in Oak Island received $69,920 in federal funds. Ansonville Fire Department in Ansonville received $145,350 in federal funds. Mount Holly Fire & Rescue in Mount Holly received $47,500 in federal funds. Green Hill Volunteer Fire Department in Rutherfordton received $94,131 in federal funds. Nebo Volunteer Fire Department in Nebo received $115,710 in federal funds. The AFGP program provides money for training, equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Fire departments are required to share in the cost of the funded project by providing a match of 20% of the project cost. The matching requirement is reduced for small community fire departments. For more information go to http://burr.senate.gov.
07.31.2006	07.31.06 Burr Applauds Congress for Passing the Perkins Career and Technical Education Act Legislation improves and strengthens career and technical education programs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today Senator Burr applauded Congress for passing the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Improvement Act of 2006 (Perkins). The Perkins reauthorization seeks to improve and strengthen the academic and career and technical skills of high school and postsecondary students enrolled in career and technical education programs. This legislation reauthorizes the Perkins Career and Technical Education Act through 2012. It was last reauthorized in 1998. "I applaud Congress for working together to reauthorize this important piece of legislation," said Senator Burr. "The Perkins reauthorization bill will strengthen North Carolina's career and technical education programs which will create a more highly skilled workforce for our state." Senator Burr was part of the committee that worked to resolve the differences between the reauthorization legislation passed by the Senate and the House. The Senate voted for the legislation Wednesday evening and the House approved the legislation early Saturday morning. The bill now awaits the President's signature to be signed into law. The Perkins legislation aims to: build on the efforts of States and localities to develop challenging academic and technical standards; promote the development of services and activities that integrate challenging academic and career and technical instruction, and that link secondary and postsecondary education for participating career and technical education students; increase State and local flexibility in providing services and activities designed to develop, implement, and improve career and technical education; conduct and disseminate information on best practices; promote leadership, comprehensive initial training and professional development for career and technical education teachers, faculty, principals, administrators and counselors; provide technical assistance that will improve career and technical education programs, services, and activities; support partnerships among secondary schools, postsecondary institutions, area career technical centers, business and industry, professional associations, and intermediaries; and develop a highly skilled workforce needed to keep America competitive in the global economy in conjunction with other Federal education and training programs, including workforce investment programs, that provide lifelong learning for the workforce of today and tomorrow. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
07.28.2006	07.28.06 Burr Announces Over $4 Million in Federal Funding for North Carolina Colleges and Universities Funds to be used for TRIO Talent Search Program WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced $4,014,299 in grants to North Carolina's colleges, universities, and other organizations. Fourteen grants were awarded to North Carolina TRIO Talent Search Programs. The program identifies and assists individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds and provides academic, career, and financial counseling to encourage participants to earn a diploma and pursue education after high school. The U.S. Department of Education awarded the funds. "I am proud North Carolina is using these funds to help students further their education," Burr said. "The Talent Search Program funds will help disadvantaged students in North Carolina receive the necessary education and skills to compete in the global economy." The grants were awarded to the following North Carolina institutions: Caldwell Community College and Technical Institute in Hudson received $220,000 in federal funds. Communities in Schools in Charlotte received $219,877 in federal funds. Elizabeth City State University in Elizabeth City received $336,623 in federal funds. Fayetteville State University in Fayetteville received $250,261 in federal funds. James Sprunt Community College in Kenansville received $247,030 in federal funds. Lees-McRae College in Banner Elk received $277,075 in federal funds. North Carolina Commission of Indian Affairs in Raleigh received $283,754 in federal funds. North Carolina State University in Raleigh received $363,815 in federal funds. Southeastern Community College in Whiteville received $360,469 in federal funds. St. Augustine's College in Raleigh received $393,185 in federal funds. United Piedmont Center for Educational Excellence in Greensboro received $220,000 in federal funds. Western Carolina University in Cullowhee received $338,456 in federal funds. Western Piedmont Community College in Morganton received $283,754 in federal funds. Wilson Technical Community College in Wilson received $220,000 in federal funds. The Talent Search Program aims to encourage disadvantaged youth to complete high school and enroll in a postsecondary education program. Services provided by the Talent Search Program include: advice on entry or re-entry to secondary or postsecondary programs; career exploration; tutorial services; information on postsecondary education; exposure to college campuses; information on student financial assistance; assistance in completing college admissions and financial aid applications; assistance in preparing for college entrance exams; mentoring programs and special activities for sixth, seventh, and eighth graders; and workshops for the families of participants. For more information go to http://burr.senate.gov. # # #
07.26.2006	07.26.06 Senator Burr, North Carolina Governor Easley Support Proposal to Replace Bonner Bridge This press release was issued by the U.S. Department of Interior. Click here to view the release on the Department of Interior's web site.
07.26.2006	07.26.06 Burr Statement on Prime Minister Maliki’s Address to Joint Session of Congress WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on Prime Minister Maliki's joint address to Congress: "I applaud Prime Minister Maliki's determination and commitment to defeating terrorism and creating a free and stable democracy in Iraq. His visit to the United States demonstrates his desire to bring stability and security to his country. The Prime Minister made clear that withdrawing American troops from Iraq before his government can effectively protect its people could undermine the new Iraqi democracy. I believe it is in the best interest of the Iraqi people, the United States, and global security that we remain committed to finishing the job in Iraq. Prime Minister Maliki has a strong vision for his country and under his leadership it is my hope Iraq becomes a beacon of peace and prosperity in the troubled Middle East region. America is a partner with Iraq and we are committed to supporting Iraq's constitutional democracy and will continue to assist Iraq in its effort to establish peace for its citizens." # # #
07.21.2006	07.21.06 Burr Announces North Carolina Economic Development Summit on Health Care U.S. Secretary of Labor Chao to speak; event to focus on health information technology and healthcare workforce issues WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced he will cosponsor a North Carolina Economic Development Summit to focus on health care information technology and healthcare workforce issues on Monday, July 24 on the West Campus of Central Piedmont Community College in Charlotte. U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao will deliver the keynote address at the summit. "The health care industry plays a vital role in North Carolina's economy. I hope this summit will explore health care information technology initiatives and workforce issues that can expand economic development in our communities," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina's high quality health care system makes our state a great state in which to live and work. I hope this summit will provide information to strengthen our health care services." Federal officials from the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor and Veterans Affairs will participate in session discussions. In addition, representatives from Central Piedmont Community College, C. W. Williams Community Health Center, IBM, the University of North Carolina Hospital System and Washington Hospital Center will help facilitate dialogue on the health care panels. The summit is the second in a series Senator Burr has developed to enhance economic development in North Carolina. The first summit was held in January and focused on access to federal grants for community colleges. Future events will include summits addressing education issues related to economic development in the Tar Heel state. In addition to the summits, Senator Burr will continue to host workshops in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina focusing on increasing access to federal resources and more effective grant writing skills for North Carolina's small businesses and counties, cities, and towns. In March, Senator Burr hosted a workshop concentrating on access to federal grants for fire and rescue teams; and in June he hosted a workshop in Fayetteville on accessing federal grants for faith-based and community organizations. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
07.20.2006	07.20.06 Burr Statement on the Voting Rights Act WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the Voting Rights Act: "I supported the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. I am pleased my colleagues in the Senate voted unanimously to reauthorize the Act without amendments. I believe our democratic process in which citizens elect those who will govern is a cornerstone of America. Voting rights ensure the integrity of our electoral process and guarantee all Americans have the opportunity to participate in this process. It is this process which has contributed greatly to making our nation stable, resilient, and a leader in the World. Voting rights for all American citizens regardless of race, is granted by the 15th Amendment and enforced by the Voting Rights Act." # # #
07.20.2006	07.20.06 Burr to Co-Sponsor North Carolina Economic Development Summit on Health Care in Charlotte U.S. Secretary of Labor Chao to deliver keynote address Senator Richard Burr will co-sponsor a North Carolina Economic Development Summit on Health Care on Monday, July 24 in Charlotte. The summit will focus on health care information technology and workforce issues. U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao will deliver the keynote address. WHERE: Central Piedmont Community College West Campus Harris Conference Center Full Conference Hall 3216 CPCC West Campus Drive Charlotte, North Carolina WHEN: Monday, July 24, 2006 10:00 AM - 2:30 PM 10:00 AM Panel I, Health Care Information Technologies Panel Moderator: Carolyn C. Allison, CEO, C. W. Williams Community Health Center, Inc. Linda Fischetti, Director of Healthy People, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Information Ginny Wagner, Project Executive, National Healthcare Information Network Architecture Prototype, IBM Dr. John Loonsk, Director of Interoperability and Standards, Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Jonathan Handler, MD, Director of Development for the Azyxxi Information System, Washington Hospital Center 12:00 PM Senator Burr to deliver opening remarks 12:20 PM Secretary Chao to deliver keynote remarks 1:00 PM Senator Burr and Secretary Chao to participate in a press availability in the Ash Room 1:00 PM Panel II, Health Care Workforce Development Panel Moderator: Carolyn C. Allison, CEO, C. W. Williams Community Health Center, Inc. Tanya Pagan-Raggio, Senior Medical Officer, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration Ruth Hedgpeth, Director of Nursing, Central Piedmont Community College Mary Tonges, Vice President, University of North Carolina Health Care 2:30 PM Summit Concludes Any media wishing to cover this event or schedule an interview with Senator Burr MUST contact Senator Burr's office prior to the event. Press check-in will be located in the lobby of the Harris Conference Center. # # #
07.19.2006	07.19.06 Senate HELP Committee Approves Burr’s Bipartisan Public Health and Medical Preparedness and Response Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions today unanimously approved S. 3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act authored by Senator Richard Burr. Cosponsors of the legislation include: Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY), Bill Frist (R-TN), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Ted Kennedy (D-MA). "We have learned from Katrina and 9/11 that we must do more to improve our public health and medical response systems must respond faster," said Senator Burr. "This legislation will enhance training and planning for health care providers to ensure emergency medical care is delivered more rapidly during a disaster." Burr's bill reauthorizes the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which was signed into law following the terrorist attacks of September 11th and will expire at the end of September 2006. This law made important improvements in our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks and to care for a greater number of patients in an emergency. The legislation introduced yesterday by Senator Burr would improve our public health and medical preparedness and responses during emergencies and disasters. "I am pleased the Senate HELP Committee voted to approve this legislation unanimously," Burr said. "I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues on this important issue." Specifically, the legislation would: Put someone in charge. The legislation identifies the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) as the lead federal official responsible for public health and medical response to emergencies including a flu pandemic. The Secretary would prepare and implement a coordinated strategy for public health emergency preparedness and response. Speed up coordinated responses to medical emergencies. The bill would improve training, logistics, and planning for health care providers to ensure emergency medical care can be delivered more rapidly during a disaster. It would also promote the use of mobile medical assets and alternative federal facilities which would provide greater ability to handle an increased number of patients during an emergency. Establish standard of preparedness from state-to-state. The legislation requires individual states to meet performance standards developed by the Secretary of HHS to ensure all states have a basic level of preparedness for disasters. Fund public health and medical preparedness. The bill provides over $1 billion per year in federal funding through grants from HHS for public health and medical preparedness. Organize medical volunteers. The legislation creates a system to promote, organize, train, and support health care volunteers during a disaster. The Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, chaired by Senator Burr, held seven public hearings and roundtables prior to the introduction of the legislation. The hearings explored public health and medical preparedness and lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. On Friday, June 14, Senator Burr held a field hearing on public health preparedness in New Orleans, Louisiana to explore the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
07.18.2006	07.18.06 Burr Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Improve Nation’s Public Health and Medical Response to Disasters Legislation puts Secretary of HHS in charge of public health and medical response; provides $1 billion in federal grants to states WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, today introduced S.3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act to improve our public health and medical preparedness and responses during emergencies and disasters. Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY), Bill Frist (R-TN), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) joined Senator Burr in co-sponsoring the legislation. "Last week I went down to New Orleans to meet with health care officials to discuss the lessons they have learned from Katrina," said Senator Burr. "Everyone I met agreed we must ensure our hospitals and health care facilities are better prepared to respond to a disaster. This legislation is a first step toward making sure our federal, state, and local governments and public and private health care systems have more tools to better manage an emergency be it a hurricane, a terrorist attack, or a pandemic." According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, after Hurricane Katrina, 68% of states reported they did not feel their public health disaster plans were capable of managing a catastrophic event. A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that very few states have the capacity to treat 500 or more patients at one time. Furthermore, the American Public Health Association (APHA) recently reported that 45% of the public health workforce is expected to retire in the next few years. "Our public health workforce is facing a shortage," Burr said. "We must increase the number of well-trained and well-prepared public health workers to create a standardized and strong public health capability to respond during a disaster." Burr's bill reauthorizes the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which was signed into law following the terrorist attacks of September 11th and will expire at the end of September 2006. This law made important improvements in our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks and to care for a greater number of patients in an emergency. Specifically Burr's bill further improves a design for all-hazards preparedness response to a health crisis whether it is deliberate or naturally occurring. The legislation would: Put someone in charge. The legislation identifies the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) as the lead federal official responsible for public health and medical response to emergencies including a flu pandemic. The Secretary would prepare and implement a coordinated strategy for public health emergency preparedness and response. Speed up coordinated responses to medical emergencies. The bill would improve training, logistics, and planning for health care providers to ensure emergency medical care can be delivered faster during a disaster. It would also promote the use of mobile medical assets and alternative federal facilities which would provide greater ability to handle an increased number of patients during an emergency. Establish standard of preparedness from state-to-state. The legislation requires individual states to meet performance standards developed by the Secretary of HHS to ensure all states have a basic level of preparedness for disasters. Fund public health and medical preparedness. The bill provides over $1 billion per year in federal funding through grants from HHS for public health and medical preparedness. Organize medical volunteers. The legislation creates a system to promote, organize, train, and support health care volunteers during a disaster. The Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, chaired by Senator Burr, held seven public hearings and roundtables prior to the introduction of the legislation. The hearings explored public health and medical preparedness and lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. On Friday, June 14, Senator Burr held a field hearing on public health preparedness in New Orleans, Louisiana to explore the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee will mark-up Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act on Wednesday, July 19. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
06.29.2006	06.29.06 Senators Burr and Lincoln Introduce the Helping Sole Community Hospitals Act of 2006 Bipartisan legislation to provide monetary relief to these hospitals Washington, D.C. - Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) today introduced the Helping Sole Community Hospitals Act of 2006. The legislation would provide Sole Community Hospitals (SCH) monetary relief by waiving the 12 percent cap on disproportionate share hospital payments. Approximately 156 Sole Community Hospitals nationwide would benefit from the legislation including four hospitals in North Carolina. The hospitals in North Carolina that would benefit from the legislation are: Spruce Pine Community Hospital in Spruce Pine; Ashe Memorial Hospital in Jefferson; Roanoke Chowan Hospital in Ahoskie; and Halifax Regional Medical Center in Roanoke Rapids. "It is important that residents in rural North Carolina who depend on Sole Community Hospitals receive the best care possible. This legislation provides Sole Community Hospitals in North Carolina and across the country financial relief," Burr said. "These hospitals provide health care services to many North Carolinians. I want to ensure these hospitals are able to keep their doors open to serve citizens." "It is critical that people living in rural America have access to quality health care," Lincoln said. "Our rural hospitals play an important role in providing care to our most vulnerable citizens -- seniors, sick and disabled individuals, and those without health insurance. I will fight hard for this legislation which provides substantial relief to several rural hospitals throughout Arkansas." A hospital is eligible to be classified as a Sole Community Hospital if it is located more than 35 miles from another hospital or if it is determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to be the sole source of inpatient hospital services in a rural area. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
06.29.2006	06.29.06 Senate Appropriations Committee Approves $21 Million for Port of Wilmington Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved the Energy and Water spending bill for fiscal year 2007. Dole and Burr successfully advocated for the bill to include $21 million for the Port of Wilmington's construction and maintenance. "The Port of Wilmington is an economic powerhouse for North Carolina, as I saw firsthand when I visited the facility earlier this month," said Dole. "It is critically important that we have a deep water port in our state, not only to generate economic opportunity, but also to support our state's thriving defense community." "I am pleased the Senate Appropriations Committee recognized the importance of these funds to the Port of Wilmington and North Carolina," Burr said. "The Port of Wilmington generates economic growth and development for the entire state and these funds will enable the Port to continue in its prosperity." The Energy and Water Appropriations bill includes $11 million for operations and maintenance and $10 million for general construction at the Port of Wilmington. NOTE: Once approved by the Senate, this version of the bill must be reconciled in conference with the House of Representatives-passed version of the bill. A final bill then will have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and go before the president for his signature. # # #
06.29.2006	06.29.06 Burr Announces Federal Funding for the Triangle Urban League in Durham Grant to help at-risk youth gain employment opportunities Washington, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced $75,920 in federal funding for the Triangle Urban League (TUL) in Durham. The funds were awarded by the Employment and Training Administration in coordination with the United States Department of Labor's Faith Based and Community Initiatives Office. "I applaud the Triangle Urban League's hard work and dedication to provide employment skills training to at-risk teens. Community initiative organizations like TUL are doing vital work for those in need across North Carolina," Burr said. "These funds are important to at-risk youth in the Durham area." The funds will be used for Project Through Interventions for Employment (Project TIE), which is facilitated by TUL. Project TIE will serve 60 individuals aged 14 to 21 through academic remediation, leadership skills and mentoring, and employability skills. # # #
06.29.2006	06.29.06 Burr Announces Federal Funding for Reading Connections, Inc. in Greensboro Grant to help teach reading skills to adults Washington, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced $74,498 in federal funding for Reading Connections, Inc. in Greensboro. The grant was awarded by the Employment and Training Administration in coordination with the United States Department of Labor's Faith Based and Community Initiatives Office. "I am pleased with the services Reading Connections, Inc. provides to Guilford County," Burr said. "Reading skills are necessary for day to day life. These funds will help teach more adults to read so they can succeed in the workplace." The Reading Connections, Inc. project is designed to help adults in Guildford County whose reading skills pose a barrier to employment. The project will provide life and employability skills training, pre- and post-job placement, advocacy, and mentoring. # # #
06.28.2006	06.28.06 Burr Announces Visits Over July 4th Recess Senator Richard Burr will visit Buncombe, Caldwell, Haywood, Jackson, Macon, Polk, Rutherford, Swain, and Transylvania counties during the July Recess. Burr will tour health care facilities, visit non-profit organizations, meet with local elected officials, and deliver remarks to civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Senator Burr will participate in a media availability following each event. Wednesday, July 5 11:15 AM Senator Burr to participate in a media avail at Rutherford Hospital Rutherford Hospital 288 South Ridge Crest Avenue Rutherfordton, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Steps to Hope in Columbus Steps to Hope 60 Ward Avenue Columbus, North Carolina 2:00 PM Senator Burr to meet with Polk County community group to discuss Avian Flu Polk County Public Library--Columbus Branch 1289 West Mills Street Columbus, North Carolina 4:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Transylvania Vocational Services Transylvania Vocational Services 11 Mountain Industrial Drive Brevard, North Carolina Thursday, July 6 9:00 AM Senator Burr to meet with Sheriff Robert Holland Macon County Sheriff's Office 1820 Lakeside Drive Franklin, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Bryson City Rotary Club Calhoun Inn 135 Everett Street Bryson City, North Carolina 1:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Alarka Volunteer Fire Department Alarka Volunteer Fire Department 3601 Alarka Road Bryson City, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to meet with Jackson County elected officials Jackson County Government Building 401 Grindstaff Cove Road Sylva, North Carolina 4:30 PM Senator Burr will visit the Wheels Through Time All-American Transportation Museum in Maggie Valley Wheels Through Time All-American Transportation Museum 62 Vintage Lane Maggie Valley, North Carolina Friday, July 7 10:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in USDA check presentation Clyde Town Hall 8437 Carolina Boulevard Clyde, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to participate in media availability at Mission Children's Hospital Outpatient Center Mission Children's Hospital Center 11 Vanderbilt Park Road Asheville, North Carolina # # #
06.27.2006	06.27.06 Burr Statement on the Flag Protection Amendment WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the Flag Protection Amendment: "I feel strongly that our flag is a symbol of the spirit, principles, and system of government on which this nation is founded. We should view the flag as a national monument and treat it with respect and protect it. I am a co-sponsor of this resolution. Unfortunately, the Senate failed to pass this resolution by one vote. Sixty-seven votes are needed to amend the Constitution and we only had sixty-six. I believe the amendment is necessary to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. As the son of a World War II veteran, I was honored to have the opportunity in May to tour the American military cemeteries in Europe and North Africa. I was able to locate the graves of young soldiers from North Carolina and pay my respects by placing our great flag graveside. When I see our flag flying I often think of those who have given so freely of themselves so we can enjoy the liberties and freedoms our nation offers." # # #
06.22.2006	06.22.06 Burr’s Veterans Homelessness Bill Approved Today by Veterans Affairs Committee as Part of Comprehensive Veterans Package Today Senator Richard Burr's Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act, S. 1991, was approved by the Veterans Affairs Committee as part of Committee Chairman Senator Larry Craig's (R-ID) Veterans Choice of Representation and Benefits Enhancement Act of 2006, S.2694. Burr's legislation provides supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so they do not become homeless. It will increase veterans' access to assistance for housing, physical and mental health services, health insurance, and vocational and financial counseling. "Our veterans have given the ultimate sacrifice so we may live in freedom. We must ensure their service is honored and they are not forgotten when they return home," Burr said. "Many of our veterans find themselves living in extreme poverty and some are homeless. This legislation will help ensure our veterans receive access to the benefits they deserve." According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 1.5 million of our Nation's veterans live in poverty. North Carolina is home to over 770,000 veterans. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, it is estimated that there are over 40,000 North Carolina veterans living below the national poverty level. The Veterans Choice of Representation and Benefits Enhancement Act of 2006 expands services for veterans and focuses on the national goal of ending homelessness among veterans by 2011 and for the first time creates programs designed to prevent veteran homelessness before it occurs, expands services for veterans. "I hope the U.S. Senate gives this legislation full consideration in a timely manner," Burr added. Burr serves on the Veterans Affairs Committee in the U.S. Senate. He introduced his Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness legislation in November 2005. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov
06.22.2006	06.22.06 Burr Applauds Senate Approval of Whitney Nomination Senator Richard Burr today applauded the Senate for confirming the nomination of Frank Whitney to be a United States District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Whitney was nominated by President Bush on February 14, 2006. "I am pleased that the Senate has approved the nomination of Mr. Whitney. Frank is exceedingly qualified to serve on the federal bench. I am confident he will continue his record of public service with honor and distinction. This is a good day for federal courts in North Carolina and for our nation." For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
06.20.2006	06.20.06 Burr Announces Over $2.1 Million for North Carolina Ferry System Funds to help build new ferry for service between Cedar Island and Ocracoke WASHINGTON, DC -- Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,166,332 in federal funding for the North Carolina Ferry System. The grant will be used to help construct a new 220-foot Sound Class ferry for service between Cedar Island and Ocracoke. The United States Department of Transportation awarded the funds. "The ferry system is vital to coastal North Carolina. It serves both the tourism industry and the residents of communities like Ocracoke," said Senator Burr. "These funds will ensure an efficient ferry system between Cedar Island and Ocracoke." Each year, North Carolina's ferry system transports over 2.5 million passengers and over 1.1 million vehicles to and from the Outer Banks. The new Sound Class ferry will hold up to 300 passengers and 50 vehicles, and will also carry goods to residents and businesses in the water-locked Ocracoke community. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov
06.20.2006	06.20.06 Burr Announces Over $1.5 Million in Federal Funding for Iredell County Project to reconstruct I-40 and I-77 interchange WASHINGTON, DC -- Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,507,275 in federal funding to the North Carolina Department of Transportation. The funding will be used to reconstruct the Interstate 40 and Interstate 77 interchange in Iredell County. The United States Department of Transportation awarded the funds. "It is important that our highways are safe and modern," said Senator Burr. "These funds will ensure North Carolina's interstates are safe and easy to access and will reduce traffic congestion in Iredell County." The Interstate 40 and Interstate 77 interchange is in close proximity to the US-21 interchange, which causes traffic congestion and safety problems in Iredell County. These funds will be used to reconfigure the interchange so it is safer and easier to use. The North Carolina Department of Transportation estimates that over 100,000 cars pass between I-40 and I-77 each day. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov
06.19.2006	06.19.06 Burr Announces Over $2.3 Million for North Carolina State Shipyard Federal funds to assist with shipyard renovation WASHINGTON, DC -- Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,363,271 in federal funding to the North Carolina Department of Transportation. The grant will be used to renovate the North Carolina state shipyard, also known as the Manns Harbor Maintenance Facility in Dare County. The United States Department of Transportation awarded the funds. "North Carolina's ferry system is an important part of our coastal communities," Burr said. "This funding will increase the shipyard's productivity as well as ensure a more environmentally friendly facility." The shipyard is responsible for maintaining the state's twenty-seven ferries. The funding will be used for demolition and construction of an indoor shipyard, which will prevent paint from potentially contaminating the surrounding wetlands. The building will also increase productivity in the shipyard since the new facility will be indoors and bad weather will not affect maintenance work schedules.
06.14.2006	06.14.06 Burr Calls for Action to Improve Emergency Care in America Upcoming Senate bioterrorism reauthorization legislation will address concerns in Institute of Medicine report released today WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today called for action to improve the state of emergency care in America citing the Institute of Medicine's comprehensive report on the future of emergency care. The Institute of Medicine report released today calls for a more coordinated, regionalized, and accountable emergency care system. The report found that this vision for emergency care is impeded because the federal programs that support emergency health care are not centralized, and dispersed among the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Transportation (DOT), and Homeland Security (DHS). "I am pleased the Institute of Medicine did this research and produced this helpful report. It shows that across the nation our emergency care system has difficulty meeting the current pressures it must contend with. If our emergency rooms are strapped now, how will they provide emergency care in the event of a medical disaster?" Burr said. "We must restructure the federal programs that affect emergency medical response and make sure there is one person in charge at HHS. The Senate needs to reauthorize the bioterrorism legislation to ensure an effective all-hazards medical response in the case of a disaster." According to the report, emergency rooms across the country are increasingly overcrowded, the waits are long, and the transport by EMS units is fragmented. There is a widening gap between the demands on the system and the capacity to provide adequate care. Over the last ten years, emergency department visits have increased by 26% while fully functional emergency departments decreased by nearly10%. These are staggering statistics since trauma is the leading cause of death in the United States for people under age 45. For America's emergency care systems to function properly, the report recommends that Congress establish a lead federal agency for emergency and trauma care at HHS. Senator Burr is leading a bipartisan effort to reauthorize the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. This bill will improve the quality and delivery of emergency care during a disaster. For example, the legislation will clearly identify a federal official in charge of public health and medical preparedness and response at HHS. This bill will reauthorize over $1 billion in federal funding for hospital and public health preparedness and ensure accountability, regional coordination, and progress measured through evidence-based benchmarks. It also will improve our ability to rapidly distribute drugs and vaccines to the public in case of an emergency. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, it was very difficult for health care volunteers to sign up to help. The bill will ensure that health care providers who volunteer to help in a medical emergency can use an accessible, user-friendly sign up process. "I am hopeful this report will increase awareness of America's need for an improved public health and medical response system," Burr said. Senator Burr is chairman of the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
06.09.2006	06.09.06 Great News: North Carolina’s Economy Is Something to Brag About by Richard Burr Great News: North Carolina's Economy Is Something to Brag About by Richard Burr I don't know about you, but I am tired of hearing about how bad things are in the United States today. Sure, I want gas prices to come down. I want food and health care costs reduced. I want lower college tuition rates. What I want is not unlike what you want. But, do not conclude that just because gas prices are high or because tuition rates go up each year that our economy is in bad shape. In fact, North Carolina's strong economy is something to brag about. Although our nation is at war and gas prices are high, North Carolina's economy is strong. We have experienced job growth in many sectors of industry, such as construction, financial services, tourism, health care, and education. Much of the state's economic success can be attributed to the creation of new jobs and consistently low unemployment rates. Unemployment rates remain low across the country and especially in North Carolina. For example, in April the state Employment Security Commission reported the overall unemployment level for North Carolina at 4.1%, lower than the national unemployment rate of 4.5%. The last time the unemployment rate in our state was at 4.1% was almost six years ago in August of 2000. Counties in northeastern North Carolina, an area that has experienced significantly high unemployment rates, saw a noteworthy increase in employment levels in the month of April. New jobs are created daily across the state and country. America has added jobs for 31 straight months, creating 5.1 million new jobs for American workers. In 2005, the North Carolina Department of Commerce reported the state added 53,000 new jobs. In the first four months of 2006, North Carolina has created 12,600 new jobs. As the country's robust economy continues to thrive, North Carolina workers, small business owners, and innovative business ideas will help ensure continued economic growth across the state. North Carolina has much to offer companies looking to relocate. For example, we are a world leader in higher education. Our community college system is one of the best in the country and our universities conduct innovative research in a variety of disciplines. With a strong education system we can secure a strong economic future for our communities and entice new businesses to call North Carolina home. The future of North Carolina's economic growth and development is promising. According to the Employment Security Commission, the state is expected to add nearly 700,000 new jobs between 2002 and 2012, a growth rate of 17%. The business, health care, and education industries are expected to have the largest employment increases over the next six years, with health care occupations leading job growth. The skills, training, and education needed to fill these new jobs will vary. Even though the economy is strong, and the future looks good, there is still much work ahead. We must strive to maintain an economy that allows every North Carolinian who wants a job to find a job. As your United States Senator, I want to continue to work to keep taxes low, reduce government spending, and help more small business owners provide affordable health care benefits for their employees. As North Carolinians continue to experience economic growth, offer a great education system and maintain a solid public health system, businesses will continue to relocate to our state, and create more jobs for our workers. This will make North Carolina an even better place to live and work. So, regardless of negative reports in the daily news, the next time you are talking with your friends or co-workers, remember that North Carolinians have something to brag about: a strong economy with a very promising future. Senator Richard Burr is a U.S. Senator from North Carolina NOTE: The unemployment numbers used in this op-ed are not seasonally adjusted numbers.
06.09.2006	06.09.06 Senators Burr and Dodd Introduce Nursing Home Fire Safety Act Bipartisan legislation to provide funds to help nursing homes install fire sprinkler systems Washington, D.C. - Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Christopher Dodd (D-CT) today introduced the Nursing Home Fire Safety Act of 2006. The legislation would authorize funding through loans or grants to nursing homes to retrofit fire sprinkler systems into their facilities. Automatic fire sprinkler systems greatly improve the chances of survival for the elderly in the event of a fire in a nursing home. "It is important residents in nursing homes not only receive the best care possible, but also live in the safest facilities. This legislation helps nursing homes in North Carolina and across the country have automatic fire sprinkler systems," Burr said. "Family members with loved ones in nursing facilities need to be assured their loved ones are better protected." Currently, an estimated 1.5 million Americans reside in approximately 16,300 nursing home facilities nationwide. Of these facilities, 20 to 30 percent lack an automatic sprinkler system. In July of 2004, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) surveyed 423 nursing homes in North Carolina and found that 56.3% had fire safety deficiencies. Today, federal regulations mandate the installation of sprinkler systems in newly constructed nursing homes. The Nursing Home Fire Safety Act of 2006 will ensure nursing home facilities built before the mandate and that lack the resources to install sprinkler systems are able to receive federal funding to do so in a timely manner. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
06.08.2006	06.08.06 Burr Statement on Al-Zarqawi WASHINGTON, DC --- U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today made the following statement on the death of terrorist Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi: "I am proud of our men and women in uniform for their hard work and dedication in removing such a ruthless, violent terrorist leader. His actions from assassinations to suicide attacks have taken the lives of many American soldiers and thousands of innocent Iraqis. Today's announcement is a step toward a free and stable Iraq." # # #
06.08.2006	06.08.06 Dole, Burr Call for Increased Representation on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals North Carolina historically underrepresented on Fourth Circuit WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr called for increased North Carolina representation on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. In a letter to President Bush, the Senators urged the White House to increase the number of North Carolinians on the Fourth Circuit. "As you know, states generally are represented on the federal appellate circuits in proportion to their populations," wrote Dole and Burr. "Based upon this guidepost, one would expect North Carolina—the most populous state in the Fourth Circuit—to be assigned four or five of the circuit's fifteen judicial seats. North Carolina, however, has historically been significantly underrepresented on the court and presently can claim only one Fourth Circuit judge, the Honorable Allyson Duncan....We believe that this is tremendously unfair to the residents of our great state." A second North Carolinian, Judge Terrence Boyle, has been nominated to the Fourth Circuit but awaits confirmation by the Senate. Boyle currently serves on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. # # #
06.08.2006	06.08.06 Burr Announces Over $2.8 Million in Federal Education Funding Funds to assist with a study focused on high school reform WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,871,016 in federal funding for the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. The funding will be used to study the effectiveness of the Early College High School (ECHS) Model by comparing the achievement, behavior, attitudes, and dropout rates of students attending these high schools to students attending more traditional high schools. The United States Department of Education awarded the funds. "It is important we do all we can to encourage students to stay in school. This funding will be valuable in determining the best methods to use for comprehensive high school reform," said Senator Burr. "This study will help us better understand the effects of different education methods used by North Carolina's high schools." The grant will assist UNC-Greensboro's study of the effectiveness of the Early College High School Model, a method of high school reform being widely implemented across America but the results of which have not been thoroughly examined. Burr serves on the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov
06.07.2006	06.07.06 Burr Announces Federal Grant Workshop in Fayetteville Event to focus on improving access to federal grants for faith-based and community initiatives WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced his office will sponsor a statewide federal grant workshop in Fayetteville to focus on improving access to federal grants for faith-based and community initiatives. The workshop will be held on Thursday, June 22, 2006 at 9:00 AM at the Airborne and Special Operations Museum located at 100 Bragg Boulevard in downtown Fayetteville. The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's faith-based and community initiative organizations and will include speakers from federal government departments. "Faith-based and community initiative organizations play an integral role in North Carolina communities. These organizations provide a helping hand to members of our communities that need it most," said Senator Burr. "I hope this workshop will provide faith-based and community groups with a better understanding of the federal grants process so they can continue to make a positive impact on the communities they serve." Senator Burr has invited representatives from the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, the U.S Agency for International Development (USAID), the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to speak at the workshop. This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In January Senator Burr hosted the first Economic Development Summit in Raleigh which focused on providing federal grant information to North Carolina's community colleges. In March Senator Burr hosted a workshop in Washington, DC which focused on access to grants for fire and rescue teams. Later this year Senator Burr will host an Economic Development Summit focusing on health care. The workshop is free and open to the public. Pre-registration is requested. North Carolina faith-based and community initiative organization personnel who wish to attend the workshop should contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154. # # #
06.01.2006	06.01.06 Burr Announces Over $29 Million in Homeland Security Grants for North Carolina Funds to assist with homeland security preparations on state and local levels WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $29,310,000 in federal funding to North Carolina. The funding will be used to assist state and local governments in their ability to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks, major disasters, and other emergencies. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security awarded the funds through its Homeland Security Grant Program. "Homeland Security funds help North Carolina improve its ability to prepare for and respond to national threats, whether they are accidental, deliberate, or Mother Nature," Burr said. "These funds help make sure we are better prepared to respond in an emergency on all levels from local government to the state government." The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) awarded North Carolina $10,780,000 in federal funding to enhance the capability of state and local government to prevent, deter, respond to, and recover from incidents of terrorism and other catastrophic attacks. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP) awarded North Carolina $9,560, 000 in federal funding to assist law enforcement and public safety officials in the prevention of terrorist attacks through activities such as intelligence gathering, information sharing, and target hardening. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) awarded North Carolina $8,970,000 in federal funding to fund designated high-threat, high-density urban areas against acts of terrorism and catastrophic events. In 2006, the United States Department of Homeland Security's Grant Program will award approximately $1.7 billion to states, territories, and urban areas to enhance homeland security preparations. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.25.2006	05.25.06 Burr Votes NO on Immigration Reform Bill Legislation grants amnesty to illegal immigrants; estimates show legislation will cost taxpayers $79 billion Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today voted against the Senate immigration reform bill citing the fiscal impact it will have on the nation and taxpayers wallets, and the blanket amnesty it provides to over ten million illegal immigrants by putting them on a direct path to citizenship. "I believe strengthened border security and comprehensive immigration reform are very important. As a nation, we have welcomed generations of legal immigrants over the course of our history--immigrants who respect the law and contribute a great deal to our country. The immigration reform package in the Senate addresses increased border security, but also rewards those who have broken the law by granting them a direct path to citizenship. It allows current illegal immigrants to receive the full array of federal benefits, but fails to reform our current immigration policy for those who want to come to America legally," Burr said. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the Senate immigration bill will increase federal spending by $79 billion in the first ten years. CBO predicts an increase in spending on federal benefit programs such as refundable tax credits, Medicaid, Social Security, Medicare, and Food Stamps. Other programs such as Supplemental Security Income, unemployment insurance, and student loans will also experience an increase in spending. Other sources estimate that the cost of the immigration bill could be as high as $160 billion in new federal spending over the next ten years. "The economic impact this legislation will have on North Carolina and the nation is staggering. Each state will be stretched to its limits to provide benefits such as in-state tuition and Medicaid services to these new legal residents. Taxpayers will carry the increased costs of providing federal benefits such as the earned income tax credit and Medicare," Burr said. "As the father of two boys, I have tried to teach them that they will benefit or suffer from the consequences of the decisions they make, whether good or bad. I cannot as a U.S. Senator vote to grant blanket amnesty to those who have broken the law to live in our country," Burr added. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.24.2006	05.24.06 Burr Announces Fire Grant for Rowan County Federal funds to help firefighter recruitment WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $183,240 in federal funding from the United States Department of Homeland Security for Bostian Heights Volunteer Fire Department. The grant, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will help the department recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. "Firefighters give so much of themselves each day to help others in our communities," said Senator Burr. "This grant will help Bostian Heights recruit and retain qualified emergency response personnel." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share between twenty and seventy percent of costs over the grant's five year payout. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.24.2006	05.24.06 Burr Announces Fire Grant for Cumberland County Federal funds to help firefighter recruitment WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $61,447 United States Department of Homeland Security grant for Anderson Creek Emergency Services, Inc. The grant, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will help the department recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. "Firefighters give so much of themselves each day to help others in our communities," said Senator Burr. "This grant will help Anderson Creek hire and retain qualified emergency response personnel." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share between twenty and seventy percent of costs over the grant's five year payout. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.24.2006	05.24.06 Burr Announces Fire Grant for Rutherford County Federal funds to help firefighter recruitment WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $270,145 in federal funding from the United States Department of Homeland Security for Forest City Fire Department. The grant, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will help the department recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. "Firefighters give so much of themselves each day to help others in our communities," said Senator Burr. "This grant will help Forest City recruit and retain well qualified emergency response personnel." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share between twenty and seventy percent of costs over the grant's five year payout. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.23.2006	05.23.06 Burr to Travel to Normandy on Memorial Day Will join VA Secretary and Senators on tour of military cemeteries in Europe and North Africa Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced he will join U.S. Senator Larry Craig, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs on a tour of military cemeteries in Europe and North Africa and will be in Normandy, France to commemorate Memorial Day. On Memorial Day, Senator Burr and the delegation will visit Omaha Beach in France and lay a wreath in honor of the American servicemen who gave their lives at Normandy. "I look forward to commemorating Memorial Day at Normandy. It is a reminder of the great sacrifices our soldiers have made so we may live in freedom in the United States," Senator Burr said. Senators Specter (R-PA) and Isakson (R-GA), both members of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, will be on the trip as will Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jim Nicholson and Brigadier General John W. Nicholson, Ret., Secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission. Senator Burr serves on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. He introduced the Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act to provide services to help keep low-income veterans in permanent housing and the Veterans Outreach Improvement Act which provides grants for the VA to partner with state and local governments to increase outreach to veterans and their families on benefits. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.19.2006	05.19.06 Burr’s State Offices Open to Serve North Carolinians Offices located in Asheville, Gastonia, Rocky Mount, Wilmington, and Winston-Salem WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today encouraged North Carolinians to utilize his state offices as a resource for constituent services and for help with federal government issues. Senator Burr has five state offices located in Asheville, Gastonia, Rocky Mount, Wilmington, and Winston-Salem. "I am pleased to have offices across North Carolina to serve people across our state. My staff is available to talk with North Carolinians about any federal government issues they may have," Burr said. "I hope North Carolinians will utilize the resources my offices can provide." Asheville Senator Burr's Asheville office serves as a resource for residents of Western North Carolina. Contact information for the Asheville office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr Federal Building 151 Patton Avenue Suite 204 Asheville, North Carolina 28801 Phone: (828) 350-2437 or (800) 685-8916 The office is open Mondays from 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM and all other times by appointment. Senator Burr's Asheville staff will be traveling throughout Western North Carolina, Tuesday-Friday of each week. Gastonia Senator Burr's Gastonia office serves as a resource for residents in the Gastonia, Charlotte and surrounding area. Contact information for the Gastonia office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr Gastonia City Hall 181 South Street Room 222 Gastonia, North Carolina 28052 Phone: (704) 833-0854 or (800) 685-8916 Fax: (704) 833-1467 The office is open Mondays from 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM and all other times by appointment. Senator Burr's Gastonia staff will be traveling throughout South-Central North Carolina Tuesday - Friday of each week. Rocky Mount Senator Burr's Rocky Mount office serves as a resource for residents in the Raleigh, Rocky Mount, and Northeastern North Carolina. Contact information for the Rocky Mount office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr 100 Coast Line Street Room 210 Rocky Mount, North Carolina 27804 Phone: (252) 977-9522 or (800) 685-8916 Fax: (252) 977-7902 The office is open Mondays from 8:30 - 5:30 PM and all other times by appointment. Senator Burr's Rocky Mount staff will be traveling throughout Northeast North Carolina Tuesday - Friday of each week. Wilmington Senator Burr's Wilmington office serves as a resource for residents in the coastal area. Contact information for the Wilmington office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr 201 North Front Street Suite 809 Wilmington, North Carolina 28401 Phone: (910) 251-1058 or (888) 848-1833 Fax: (910) 251-7975 The office is open Monday - Friday from 8:30AM - 5:30 PM. The Wilmington office serves Southeastern North Carolina with staff available to assist individuals having problems with Social Security, Medicare, the Veterans Administration, or military issues. Senator Burr's staff in the Wilmington office travel throughout the region meeting with constituents. Winston-Salem Senator Burr's Winston-Salem office serves as a resource for residents in the Triad area. Contact information for the Winston-Salem office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr 2000 W. First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104 Phone: (336) 631-5125 or (800) 685-8916 Fax: (336) 725-4493 The office is open Monday - Friday from 8:30AM - 5:30 PM. The Winston-Salem office assists individuals with issues dealing with any federal government agency. Some of the areas of assistance include Social Security, Medicare, Veterans, military personnel, securing a passport, immigration assistance, the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and military academy applications. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.18.2006	05.18.06 Burr Urges North Carolinians to Plan Ahead for Hurricane Season Tips can help non-coastal areas prepare for other emergencies With hurricane season quickly approaching, I urge North Carolinians to plan ahead. It is clear our Nation is still recovering from the effects of the 2005 hurricane season. Hurricane Katrina impacted over 93,000 square miles of our Nation and brought terrible destruction along its path. Every hurricane has a lasting effect on communities, people, and property. I want to encourage North Carolinians to develop an emergency and evacuation plan to protect their family, pets, and property. For those of you who don't live directly on the coast, these preparations can easily be adapted for other possible emergencies. Because many disasters do not allow enough time to prepare, planning ahead is a necessity. Advance planning for a potential hurricane can reduce stress and personal losses that may accompany any disaster. There are several key steps to help prepare for a hurricane such as maintaining an emergency supply kit, preparing your home, having an evacuation plan, ensuring you have the best insurance policy, and providing safety for pets and animals. The following is a compilation of information on disaster preparedness from FEMA, the Red Cross, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. What supplies should I keep in my disaster supply kit? • A disaster supply kit should be kept in a designated place in your home and it should be readily accessible. All family members should know where the supply kit is kept. Essential supplies that should be included are: a first aid kit and essential prescribed medications; a three - five day supply of non perishable food (such as canned food) and a can opener; at least three - five gallons of water per person; protective clothing; sleeping bags and extra blankets; a battery powered radio and flashlight with extra batteries; baby food and supplies if needed; disposable cleaning cloths (such as baby wipes) for the entire family; personal hygiene supplies such as soap, toothbrush, and toothpaste; cash and coins; and photocopies of credit and identification cards such as a drivers license, social security card and proof of insurance policies. How do I develop a personal evacuation plan for my family? • All families should have an emergency evacuation plan. There should be one designated meeting place for your family. You should constantly listen to local radio for evacuation instructions and always keep a full tank of gas when preparing for a hurricane. • Before disaster strikes, identify places you could go if you are told to evacuate. You should consider a friend or family member's home in another town, a motel, or a shelter and you should keep the telephone numbers of these places accessible as well as a road map in case you have to take an alternative route. • You should follow the recommended evacuation routes assigned by the city, county, or state. You should also prepare an emergency supply kit for your car with food, flares, jumper cables, maps, tools and sleeping bags. How do I prepare my home for a hurricane? • There are several steps you can take to protect your home from severe damage during a hurricane. To secure the outward structure of your home, you should secure outdoor items such as bicycles and grill tanks and cover windows and doors with plywood or boards. Also, keep the bushes, trees, and shrubs around your home trimmed and clean out your gutters regularly. • Inside your home you should turn off water supply and natural gas supply to the house. Water becomes a valuable resource and natural gas leaks and explosions are responsible for a significant number of fires following many hurricanes. Be sure to shut off electricity to the entire house and unplug all electrical equipment. Adjust the thermostat on refrigerators and freezers to the coolest possible temperature. What type of insurance do I need to ensure I have full coverage for any type of damage to my home and property? • You should purchase homeowner's insurance as well as flood insurance. Flood insurance is not part of your homeowner's policy. You should also take inventory of your possessions. • Make a record of your personal property for insurance purposes by taking photos of the interior and exterior of your home including your personal belongings. Keep important documents such as insurance policies, deeds, property records, and other important papers in a safe place such as a safety deposit box and make sure you have copies of these documents in your disaster supply kit. How do I protect my pets during a hurricane? • You should plan ahead for your pets needs during a hurricane. Call your local animal shelter or animal control office to get advice and information, ensure your pet has proper ID and up-to-date veterinarian records, and locate local and out of town pet boarding facilities. Where can I get more information on hurricane preparedness? • There are several websites available to help you get prepared for a hurricane. FEMA's website http://www.fema.gov/hazard/hurricane/index.shtm gives information on what to do before, during, and after a hurricane. FEMA also has a publication Are You Ready at http://www.fema.gov/areyouready/index.shtm. • The Red Cross has a hurricane preparedness page at http://www.redcross.org/services/prepare/0,1082,0_253_,00.html • NOAA's National Weather Service Website may be accessed at http://www.nws.noaa.gov. • The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control has information on hurricanes at http://www.bt.cdc.gov/disasters/hurricanes/ For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # ##
05.17.2006	05.17.06 Burr Applauds North Carolina’s Selection for Growth Model Pilot NC one of only two states approved to use growth-based school accountability model under No Child Left Behind Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today applauded North Carolina's selection by the U.S. Department of Education to pilot a growth-based school accountability model under the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). North Carolina is one of only two states chosen to participate in this pilot program this year. Tennessee was also selected. In November 2005, Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings announced this pilot program which allows qualified states to propose the use of accountability growth models under NCLB. Growth-based models give schools and districts credit for improvements in student academic achievement by tracking the achievement of individual students from year to year. "I am pleased North Carolina was selected to participate in this growth-based pilot program," Burr said. "As a result of the State's exceptional history in the areas of education standards, assessments, and accountability, North Carolina has once again shown itself to be a leader and innovator in standards-based school reform." North Carolina qualified to participate in this pilot program because of its strong and rigorous assessment and accountability system and because it meets the bright line principles of NCLB by ensuring all students, regardless of background, achieve proficiency in reading and mathematics by 2013-2014; establishing high expectations for low-achieving students, including all students in the State's assessment and accountability systems; and holding schools and districts accountable for the achievement of student subgroups. By participating in this pilot growth-based accountability program, North Carolina will be able to provide valuable information to Congress and the Department of Education on how accountability growth models compare to the current adequate yearly progress model under No Child Left Behind. This information will be invaluable as Congress begins consideration of the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. "It is important we do all we can to ensure all students in North Carolina reach high academic standards, regardless of background. The high standards set by the No Child Left Behind Act have challenged schools to identify and address long-standing achievement gaps and to reform instruction so all children's educational needs are met," Burr added. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.11.2006	05.11.06 Burr Applauds Economic Growth Unemployment rates low across state Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today praised North Carolina's economic growth and expansion. In March, the Employment Security Commission of North Carolina reported the overall unemployment level for the entire state was 4.5%, lower than the national unemployment rate of 4.7%. "I am pleased North Carolina continues to attract jobs creating economic growth and expansion," Burr said. "As our economy continues to grow, we need to continue working to ensure every North Carolinian who wants a job can find a job." In the first quarter of the year, America's economy grew at a rate of 4.8%. Last year the economy grew 3.5%, the fastest of any industrialized nation. America has added jobs for 31 straight months, creating 5.1 million new jobs for American workers. In 2005 North Carolina added 53,000 jobs according to the North Carolina Department of Commerce. "As North Carolinians continue to experience economic growth, offer a great education system and maintain a solid public health infrastructure, businesses will continue to relocate to our state creating more jobs for our workers and making North Carolina a better place to live and work," Burr added. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
05.11.2006	05.11.06 Burr Announces Public Health and Medical Preparedness Roundtable with Giuliani, North Carolina Health Leaders Event to highlight public health and medical preparedness efforts in North Carolina Senator Richard Burr will participate in a public health and medical preparedness roundtable with former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani and North Carolina public health leaders in Raleigh. The roundtable, co-sponsored by WakeMed Health and Hospitals, will address modern public health security and improved all hazards medical response. Roundtable participants include Roy Alson, Commander of the North Carolina Disaster Medical Assistance Team (SORT), Leah Devlin, Director of the North Carolina Division of Public Health, Gibbie Harris, Community Health Director for Wake County, and H. Douglas Hoell, Director of the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management. WHO: U.S. Senator Richard Burr and Rudy Giuliani WHAT: Public Health and Medical Preparedness Roundtable WHEN: Monday, May 15 at 2:45 PM; Press Avail with Senator Burr immediately following roundtable in the Heart Resource Center WHERE: WakeMed Raleigh Campus, Heart Center 3rd Floor, 3000 New Bern Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina Any media wishing to cover Senator Burr's roundtable MUST contact Senator Burr's office prior to the event. Media should park in the P-1 parking deck of WakeMed. # # #
05.10.2006	05.10.06 Burr Calls on Seniors to Enroll in Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Before May 15 Deadline Reports show 75% of beneficiaries in North Carolina have enrolled Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today called on North Carolina's seniors to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan to best serve their health care needs. This year every American with Medicare, regardless of income, health status, or prescription drug usage was given access to prescription drug coverage under the new Medicare Part D program if they sign up. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, over 75% of North Carolina's Medicare beneficiaries have enrolled in a prescription drug plan. "I am pleased so many North Carolina seniors have enrolled in a Medicare prescription drug plan. North Carolina has over 75% of seniors enrolled in the plan which is a very impressive number," Burr said. "It's understandable to have questions about what the new drug coverage means for you. My dad faced the same decision and had to choose the best plan to meet his specific medical needs. I want to encourage you to pick a plan before the May 15 deadline." The deadline to enroll in a 2006 Medicare prescription drug plan and pay lower premiums is May 15, 2006. After that deadline, the next opportunity to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan will be November 15, 2006. The November 15 enrollment period officially begins the 2007 prescription drug season and seniors will likely pay a penalty for not enrolling by May 15. Many resources are available to assist Medicare beneficiaries in choosing the best plan. The Medicare call center is available 24 hours a day by calling 1-800-633-4227 and the Medicare website can be accessed at www.medicare.gov .
05.03.2006	05.03.06 Senators Sessions, Burr and Coburn Push For More Equitable Ryan White CARE Act HIV/AIDS Funding U.S. Senators Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Richard Burr (R-NC) and Tom Coburn (R-OK) today called for a more equitable distribution of HIV/AIDS funding, saying that rural areas - particularly in the South - are being shortchanged at the expense of large metro areas. The three senators raised the issue at a news conference. Sessions and Burr are members of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which later this month is scheduled to reauthorize the 1990 Ryan White CARE Act, the main federal HIV/AIDS spending law. Coburn has introduced a stand-alone bill that would readjust the distribution formula. Ryan White CARE Act funding provides medical care, anti?retroviral treatments, counseling and testing for HIV/AIDS patients who need it the most. "Why do states like Alabama have waiting lists for people to get basic drugs while places like New York, Houston and San Francisco have so much money that they provide acupuncture, massage therapy, dog-walking and 'companion services'? Ryan White himself would not get the proper funding under the current funding formula," Sessions said, referring to the Indiana teenager who died in 1990 after contracting AIDS from hemophilia treatments. HIV/AIDS funding formulas direct a great deal of money to "eligible metropolitan areas" - cities with populations of at least 500,000 with more than 2,000 reported AIDS cases in the past five years - rather than simply allowing money to follow HIV/AIDS patients in each state. This two-tiered system allows eligible metropolitan areas to get direct money from the federal government, on top of state funds. According to a June 2005 Government Accountability Office report, some states receive $1,500 more than other states per AIDS case, thanks to the formula that favors big cities. "Ryan White CARE Act funding must be distributed more equally among states. Southern states like North Carolina have been historically underfunded and yet the South continues to have one of the highest numbers of AIDS cases," Burr said. "The Ryan White CARE Act exists to protect and support those battling HIV and AIDS. It is time for Ryan White funds to be distributed more evenly so all HIV and AIDS patients benefit and not just those patients living in the largest urban areas." "The U.S. federal government will spend over $20 billion on HIV/AIDS related programs this year alone. There is no acceptable reason why we should deny any American living with HIV access to medically necessary care. Yet under current federal formulas, San Francisco is receiving funding for those who died over a decade ago while patients in rural America are literally dying awaiting access to medication on AIDS Drug Assistance Program waiting lists," Coburn said. The South has been particularly hard hit in recent years, with seven of the nation's 10 highest AIDS case rates located in the region. Because Alabama has no "eligible metropolitan area," the state receives $3,657 per AIDS patient in federal money, compared to $5,264 per patient in California. In 2004, the latest year for which statistics are available, Alabama had 5,729 cumulative HIV cases and 7,744 cumulative AIDS cases. Alabama is one of several states with a federal AIDS Drug Assistance Program waiting list that at times has swelled to more than 600 patients. Alabama ranks 13th in cumulative HIV cases and 24th in cumulative AIDS cases. North Carolina has approximately 18,900 people living with HIV or AIDS. In 2004, 66.7 percent of people living with AIDS in North Carolina were African American, the 5th highest in the nation. North Carolina currently ranks 14th among states with the greatest number of AIDS cases in the nation. As of January 1, 2006, there were 4,442 reported cases of HIV/AIDS in Oklahoma. While there currently is no ADAP waiting list, the state has enacted caps on the number of enrollees and expenditures per enrollee due to funding shortfalls. The Centers for Disease Control estimates that about 40,000 people in the United States become infected with HIV each year, and that more than 1 million Americans currently have HIV/AIDS. African Americans account for half of all new AIDS cases, and African American women account for two thirds of new AIDS cases among women.
04.20.2006	04.20.06 Burr Announces NASA Funding for University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Funds to assist with the study of biodiversity and ecological structure WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $358,137 in federal funding to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The funding will be used to assess the impact of vegetation structure and physiology on biodiversity. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) awarded the funds. "I am pleased with UNC-Chapel Hill's advanced research in this field," Burr said. "This funding and research will help NASA improve its space and aeronautics programs." NASA's Terrestrial Ecology and Biodiversity program addresses changes in the Earth's carbon cycle and various ecosystems using space-based observations. It focuses on land-based ecosystems and how their functions support human life and maintain planet Earth's habitability. This funding will be used to gain a better understanding of our ecosystems. Eventually NASA hopes to apply this research to create better life support systems for their space and aeronautics programs. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
04.13.2006	04.13.06 Burr Announces Visits Over April Recess Events to highlight economic development, education, and healthcare Senator Richard Burr will visit Buncombe, Forsyth, Gaston, Henderson, Mecklenburg, and Rowan Counties during the April Recess. During the recess Burr will speak to high school students, tour health care facilities, participate in military medal ceremonies, and deliver remarks to civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Wednesday, April 19 8:50 AM Senator Burr to address students at RJ Reynolds High School RJ Reynolds High School Hawthorne Road Winston-Salem, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to present Purple Heart Medal to Mr. William W. Wilkins of Mount Airy, North Carolina Senator Burr's Office 2000 W. First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to present Distinguished Flying Cross Medal to Mr. Balfour Routh of Winston-Salem, North Carolina Senator Burr's Office 2000 W. First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina Thursday, April 20 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit the Salisbury Community Service Council Salisbury Community Service Council 1300 West Bank Street Salisbury, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in a press availability at W. G. Hefner VA Medical Center W.G. Bill Hefner VA Medical Center Administration Building 1601 Brenner Avenue Salisbury, North Carolina 12:15 PM Senator Burr to address the Mount Holly Rotary Club First Presbyterian Church 133 South Main Street Mount Holly, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Areva, Inc. Areva, Inc. 7207 IBM Drive Charlotte, North Carolina Friday, April 21 10:15 AM Senator Burr to participate in press availability at Pardee Memorial Hospital 800 North Justice Street Hendersonville, North Carolina (Media must contact Lindsay Howell at (828) 698-7361 to cover the visit) 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Asheville Chamber of Commerce Asheville Chamber Office 36 Montford Avenue Asheville, North Carolina (Press availability immediately following remarks) 2:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Cobia Boats One Cobia Drive Marion, North Carolina # # #
04.13.2006	04.13.06 Burr Calls on Seniors to Enroll in Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Before May 15 Deadline Reports show 69% of beneficiaries in North Carolina have enrolled Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today called on North Carolina's seniors to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan to best serve their health care needs. This year every American with Medicare, regardless of income, health status, or prescription drug usage was given access to prescription drug coverage under the new Medicare Part D program if they sign up. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, over 69% of North Carolina's Medicare beneficiaries have enrolled in a prescription drug plan. "I am pleased so many North Carolina seniors have enrolled in a Medicare prescription drug plan. Starting any new program can be frustrating, but I applaud the seniors in our state for enrolling in a drug plan that best serves their health care needs," Burr said. "I encourage seniors not enrolled in a Medicare prescription drug plan to pick a plan before the May 15 enrollment deadline." The deadline to enroll in a 2006 Medicare prescription drug plan and pay lower premiums is May 15, 2006. After that deadline, the next opportunity to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan will be November 15, 2006. The November 15 enrollment period officially begins the 2007 prescription drug season and seniors will likely pay a penalty for not enrolling by May 15. Many resources are available to assist Medicare beneficiaries in choosing the best plan. The Medicare call center is available 24 hours a day by calling 1-800-633-4227 and the Medicare website can be accessed at www.medicare.gov . Also, the North Carolina Department of Insurance and Seniors Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP) provide counselors to answer questions about Medicare prescription drug coverage. Seniors may contact SHIIP by calling 1-800-443-9354 or by visiting the North Carolina SHIIP website at www.ncshiip.com. Local counselors are available in most North Carolina counties. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov
04.06.2006	04.06.06 Burr Introduces Biodefense Legislation New BARDA legislation ensures development of new medical countermeasures, North Carolina poised to benefit WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, has introduced the Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2006. The legislation would provide the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) with the additional authorities and resources necessary to build partnerships to rapidly develop drugs and vaccines to protect citizens from deliberate, accidental and natural medical incidents involving biological pathogens, such as bird flu, as well as chemical and radiological agents. "We need to improve our ability to prepare for and respond to national threats, be they accidental, deliberate, or naturally occurring," said Senator Richard Burr. "I believe it is necessary to have a single person in HHS responsible for partnering with research institutions and industry to quickly develop drugs and vaccines should we need them on a moment's notice. By making sure someone is in charge of developing medical countermeasures, we will develop more vaccines and drugs at a faster rate, and reduce and contain potential threats such as bird flu and bioterrorism," Burr added. Specifically, the legislation would: • Reorganize and enhance activities at HHS into the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA: The single point of authority within HHS for the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures, including drugs and vaccines to respond to bioterrorism and natural disease outbreaks. • Encourage academic researchers, drug and vaccine manufacturers, and other potential partners to commit substantial resources to bring new and better products to the market more quickly. • Encourage innovation to accelerate the development of medical countermeasures which currently takes too long. BARDA will ensure North Carolina's research universities and biotechnology companies have one point of contact within the federal government when their research on potential medical countermeasures reaches the difficult stage of advanced development. The bill also provides additional financial resources to help research institutions and companies to continue their medical countermeasure developments. "North Carolina has the third largest biotech industry in the United States. The biotech industry creates important biomedical breakthroughs in Research Triangle Park, Piedmont Triad Research Park, and in the many biotech companies located throughout the state," Burr added. "Our biotech industry and our esteemed medical schools ensure North Carolina will play a major role in medical advancements and public health preparedness." The Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2006, builds on Senator Burr's legislative efforts last year. In 2005, the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, chaired by Senator Burr, held six public hearings and roundtables prior to the introduction of the original BARDA legislation last year. The hearings explored current and future threats from deliberate, accidental and natural sources and the barriers to the development of effective drugs and vaccines against chemical, radiological, nuclear, and biological agents. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
04.05.2006	04.05.06 Burr Announces $1.4 Million for Advanced Vehicle Research Center of North Carolina Funds to assist with the development of technologies for hydrogen and ethanol fueled vehicles WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced the release of $1,485,000 in federal funding for the Advanced Vehicle Research Center of North Carolina. The funding will be used to develop technologies for hydrogen and ethanol fueled vehicles. The United States Department of Energy awarded the funds. "U.S. Department of Energy funds will help North Carolina conserve energy and be a trend setter in helping develop emerging technologies and alternative fuels," said Senator Burr. The U.S. Department of Energy funds will be used to purchase the equipment for a hydrogen/ethanol fueling station and support research and development for hydrogen and ethanol fueled vehicles. This project will provide a testing area for researchers from North Carolina State University and other universities in the region, along with private sector technology developers, to create technologies for hydrogen and ethanol fueled vehicles providing energy alternatives in the face of rising oil and gas prices. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
04.05.2006	04.05.06 Burr Hosts Roundtable on Improvements to Federal Medical Preparedness and Response Washington, D.C. - At a Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness roundtable, Senator Richard Burr today brought together experts to discuss the need for all-hazards medical preparedness and response, including bioterrorism and natural disasters such as bird flu or a major hurricane. The roundtable, entitled All-Hazards Medical Preparedness and Response, addressed how to improve the federal medical response to disasters of all kinds and included representatives from the Departments of Health and Human Services, Defense, and Veterans Affairs. Roundtable participants discussed how to better organize and train federal health care personnel to ensure a coordinated and rapid response in the event of an emergency. They also emphasized the importance of logistical support during a disaster and the need for strong private-public partnerships for a well coordinated response. "An effective medical response to disasters requires pre-existing partnerships and coordination at federal, state, and local levels," Senator Burr said. "This partnership must be flexible to respond to all-hazards medical disasters with well-trained, well-equipped and rapidly deployable personnel." "It is our responsibility at the federal level to support local and state medical capabilities, particularly if they get overwhelmed, by providing more personnel and logistical support to assist in caring for victims of disaster. It is important for state and local governments to have one point of contact during an emergency," Burr added. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 will expire on September 30, 2006. This law enhanced our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks, strengthened the networks that link our health care providers with public health authorities and strengthened the ability of our health care system to increase care provided in an emergency. This roundtable discussion will help gather additional information for the Subcommittee's efforts to reauthorize this landmark legislation. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov. # # #
04.04.2006	04.04.06 Burr Announces Over $23 Million in Ryan White CARE Act Funding North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services to receive funds WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $23,923,444 for Ryan White CARE Act funding. The United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded the funding to the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. The funding will assist the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) and the Emerging Communities program. ADAP helps impoverished HIV and AIDS patients get their necessary medication. The Emerging Communities program allows North Carolina to address urban communities highly impacted by HIV/AIDS patients. "Ryan White CARE Act funds provide life-extending care, counseling, and help to the individuals who need it most," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help North Carolina's health care system better serve its HIV/AIDS patients." Ryan White CARE Act Title II funding may be used to provide a variety of services including: ambulatory health care, home-based health care, insurance coverage, medications, outreach to HIV-positive individuals who know their HIV status, and early intervention services. The Ryan White CARE Act provides medical care, antiretroviral treatments, counseling, and testing for those in greatest need of HIV/AIDS assistance. This legislation must be reauthorized every five years. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate HELP Committee and is working on the Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization in the committee. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.28.2006	03.28.06 Senator Richard Burr: “We must act now to improve our public health system.” Washington, D.C. - At a Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness roundtable, Senator Richard Burr today renewed his call for improvements to our public health infrastructure. The roundtable, entitled Public Health Preparedness in the 21st Century, studied how to further develop public health systems and recruit, train, and retain a prepared public health workforce able to respond to national threats, be they accidental, deliberate or naturally occurring. "We must act now to improve our public health system," Senator Burr stated. "Hurricane Katrina exposed an imperfect public health infrastructure - at all levels of government - during an emergency event. The public health system I envision for the 21st Century is a strong partnership between the federal, state, and local governments, and is flexible in preparing for and responding to disasters, such as Katrina." "The response to disasters begins at the local level. We must ensure every local public health department has the capacity to protect the health of its citizens, and that federal resources are available and well-coordinated when needed," Senator Burr added. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 will expire on September 30, 2006. This law enhanced our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks, strengthened the communications networks that link our health care providers with public health authorities and strengthened the ability of our health care system to increase care provided in an emergency. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov. # # #
03.24.2006	03.24.06 President Bush signs into law Burr’s Bill to Provide More Flexibility in Education North Carolina to receive more flexibility in return for stronger accountability WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today President George W. Bush signed into law Senator Richard Burr's bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Education Flexibility Partnership Act (Ed-Flex). Ed-Flex was created in 1999 to allow states, like North Carolina with strong assessment and accountability systems to waive certain federal education requirements that may impede local efforts to reform and improve education. "I am pleased President Bush signed this important piece of legislation into law. Ed-Flex has played an important role in North Carolina's educational system by allowing local school districts to have increased flexibility," Burr said. "I am proud of North Carolina's exceptional school accountability program. As a result of our strong accountability safeguards, the Ed-Flex program helps our schools meet the goals of the No Child Left Behind Act." Ed-Flex was created to help schools implement education reforms and raise student achievement levels by providing more flexibility in the implementation of federal education programs. In return for the additional flexibility, Ed-Flex states must demonstrate enhanced accountability for the performance of students. The U.S. Secretary of Education oversees which states can waive the federal requirements. The Ed-Flex waivers in North Carolina are helping local school systems improve student achievement while meeting federal No Child Left Behind requirements in a number of ways. Examples of how local schools/school systems are using Ed-Flex to advance local reform strategies include: Tutoring for low-achieving or at-risk learners through coordinating federal, state, and local services; developing more inclusive parent involvement initiatives; collaborating and planning with Head Start, developmental specialists, and faculty from local daycare centers to facilitate a smoother transition and more appropriate placement of pre-K students; implementing a hands-on, inquiry-based science curriculum to promote critical thinking skills; providing for ongoing literacy group instruction to allow students to move into and out of the groups, as necessary, during the school year, and expanding after school science clubs and purchasing resources for after school programs. "For the future of North Carolina, it is important we do all we can to assist all students, regardless of background, in reaching high academic standards. Only through a strong education system can we secure a strong economic future for our communities," Burr added. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP). For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.24.2006	03.24.06 Burr Announces Federal Grant Workshop in Washington, D.C. Event to focus on access to federal grants for fire departments and rescue squads WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced he will sponsor a federal grant workshop in Washington, D.C. to focus on access to federal grants for fire departments and rescue squads not affiliated with a hospital. The workshop will be held on Friday, March 31, 2006 at 10:00 AM in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, D.C. The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's fire and rescue squads. "Fire and rescue squads risk lives every day to help others in our communities. This workshop will provide more information to fire and rescue teams about how to be more competitive for federal grants which can help improve their ability to respond to emergencies in their communities," said Senator Burr. Federal officials from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Agency and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will facilitate the workshop discussions. Also, the Congressional Research Service, a non-partisan division of the Library of Congress which provides comprehensive and reliable legislative research, will present a "Grants 101" class to provide an overview of the federal grant process, including how to find federal funding for a project and how to effectively write a grant proposal. In addition, representatives from the United States Fire Administration will also participate in the workshop. This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In January Senator Burr hosted the first Economic Development Summit in Raleigh which focused on providing information to North Carolina's community colleges. Later this year Senator Burr will host an Economic Development Summit focusing on health care. North Carolina fire and rescue squad personnel who wish to attend the workshop should contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154. # # #
03.16.2006	03.16.06 Burr Calls for Improved Public Health Preparedness North Carolina Director of Public Health Testifies Before Committee Washington, D.C. - At today's hearing on the reauthorization of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, Senator Richard Burr called on the Senate to fix problems and build upon past successes to significantly improve our Nation's public health and medical preparedness for and response. "The Act of 2002 clearly made improvements in our preparedness after the terrorist attacks on September 11th and the anthrax mailings," Senator Burr told the committee. "However, new potential threats, such as avian flu, and natural disasters demand we build on the progress we have made and prepare for the public health challenges ahead of us." Burr stressed the reauthorization legislation must reflect recent lessons in the Committee's next steps in three critical areas related to all-hazard preparedness and response: • Make sure someone within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is in charge of our public health and medical preparedness, response and coordination during a health emergency. • Modernize how public health departments detect, investigate, and contain health threats, and communicate with citizens. • Protect the public by more quickly and effectively responding to national and medical emergencies. The H.E.L.P. Committee also heard testimony from Leah Devlin, Director of the North Carolina Department of Public Health. Under her leadership, North Carolina's public health system was cited last month by the Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina Report as one of the Nation's best in bioterrorism preparedness in coordinating state and local emergency managers. Devlin participated in a Senate Subcommittee of Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness roundtable chaired by Senator Burr in July 2005. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 will expire on September 30, 2006. This law enhanced our ability to detect bioterrorist attacks, strengthened the communications networks that link our health care providers with public health authorities and strengthened the ability of our health care system to increase care provided in an emergency. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
03.16.2006	03.16.06 Burr Announces Visits Over March Recess Events to highlight economic development, education, healthcare, Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization and hurricane preparedness Senator Richard Burr will visit Alamance, Camden, Chowan, Currituck, Dare, Forsyth, Gates, Halifax, Hertford, Martin, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Pitt, and Wake Counties during the March Recess. Burr will visit health clinics, schools, businesses, and civic groups. During the recess week, Burr will host a roundtable to discuss the Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization with health care officials and participate in a Dare County Emergency Preparedness event to discuss hurricane preparedness. He will also speak to middle and high school students, meet with elected officials, and deliver remarks to civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, March 20 8:15 AM Senator Burr to participate in Industries for the Blind event Winston-Salem Industries for the Blind 7730 North Point Boulevard Winston-Salem, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to address Piedmont Health Coalition's 6th Annual NC Employer's Summit Elon University Moseley Center McKinnon Hall 100 Campus Drive Elon, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address Wake County Homebuilders North Raleigh Hilton 3415 Wake Forest Road Raleigh, North Carolina Tuesday, March 21 8:30 AM Senator Burr to meet with local elected officials in Greenville and visit the biotechnology incubator Technology Enterprise Center of Eastern North Carolina 111 South Washington Street Greenville, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in grant announcement at East Carolina University East Carolina University Wright Auditorium East Fifth Street Greenville, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Williamston Rotary Club Roanoke Country Club 1380 Fairway Drive Williamston, North Carolina 3:30 PM Senator Burr to focus on hurricane preparedness at Dare County Emergency Preparedness event Dare County Emergency Management Office 1044 Driftwood Drive Manteo, North Carolina Wednesday, March 22 9:00 AM Senator Burr to address students at Currituck Middle School Currituck Middle School 4265 Caratoke Highway Barco, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit the Northeastern Community Development Corporation Northeastern Community Development Corporation 154 Highway 158 East Camden, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to address students at Gates High School Gates High School 088 Highway 158 West Gatesville, North Carolina 3:30 PM Senator Burr to present USDA Rural Development Check in Pasquotank County Pasquotank County Courthouse Courtroom C 206 E. Main Street Elizabeth City, North Carolina Thursday, March 23 9:00 AM Senator Burr to present USDA Rural Development Check to Perquimans County High School Perquimans County High School Auditorium 305 Edenton Road Street Hertford, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit John A. Holmes High School John A. Holmes High School 600 Woodard Street Edenton, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Edenton Rotary Club St. Paul's Parrish House 101 West Gale Street Edenton, North Carolina 3:45 PM Senator Burr to host roundtable to discuss Ryan White CARE Act Reauthorization Hertford County Health Department 801 King Street Winton, North Carolina Friday, March 24 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit the Nash Brick Company Nash Brick Company 532 Nash Brick Road Enfield, North Carolina # # #
03.14.2006	03.14.06 Burr Provides Q & A on Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage May 15 deadline for signing up without penalty approaching Visit the Medicare web site here. The beginning of 2006 brought major improvements to Medicare. Every American with Medicare, regardless of income, health status, or prescription drug usage was given access to prescription drug coverage. As the May 15 deadline for seniors to sign up for Medicare prescription drug coverage without penalty quickly approaches, I want to provide answers to commonly asked questions. Starting any new program can be frustrating. It is understandable to have questions about what the new coverage means for Medicare beneficiaries and how to access and choose the best plan to meet specific needs. Seniors do not need to be an expert to make the right choice. There are many services and Medicare personnel available to help. There are two dates that need to be marked on your calendar. The deadline to enroll in a 2006 Medicare prescription drug plan and pay lower premiums is May 15, 2006. The next opportunity to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan if you miss the May 15 deadline is November 15, 2006. The November 15 enrollment period begins the 2007 prescription drug season and you will likely pay a penalty for not enrolling in May. What is Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage? • Medicare prescription drug coverage is insurance coverage for both brand-name and generic prescription drugs at participating pharmacies in your area. Medicare prescription drug coverage provides protection for people who have very high drug costs. Who qualifies for the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan? • Anyone on Medicare has access to a prescription drug plan. Regardless of income, health status, or prescription drug usage, you are eligible for a prescription drug plan if you are a Medicare beneficiary. • Extra help with prescription drug costs is available for people with limited income and resources. Almost one in three seniors with Medicare will qualify for additional assistance. If you qualify for this extra assistance, Medicare will pay for almost all of your prescription drug costs. You can apply or get more information by calling Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 or visiting www.socialsecurity.gov. How do I get information about the different prescription drug plans available through Medicare? • The Medicare call center is available 24 hours a day by calling 1-800-633-4227. Medicare employees are available to give you personal help in choosing a plan. Before you call, please have your Medicare Card, a list of the drugs you use, and the name of your pharmacy in hand. • The Medicare website can be accessed at www.medicare.gov . This comprehensive site allows you to enroll in the prescription drug plan online and access materials you need to choose the best plan for you. Senator Burr has a link to the Medicare program on his website at https://www.burr.senate.gov . • The North Carolina Department of Insurance and Seniors Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP) provide counselors to answer questions about Medicare prescription drug coverage. You may contact SHIIP by calling 1-800-443-9354 or by visiting the North Carolina SHIIP website at www.ncshiip.com. Local counselors are available in most North Carolina counties. How do I choose the best prescription drug plan to meet my needs? • Each Medicare drug plan has a list of the prescription drugs it will cover. When comparing plans it is important to find the plans that cover all or most of the drugs you take. • Medicare prescription drug plans must contract with pharmacies in your community, but it is important to note that not all pharmacies contract with all prescription drug plans. When choosing a plan, make sure your local pharmacy or a pharmacy near you works with the plan you choose. • Make sure the monthly premium for the plan you choose is affordable for you. How much will a prescription drug plan cost me? • All seniors, except lower income individuals, who have a Medicare prescription drug plan, pay a monthly premium now. Premiums vary by plan; however, on average most monthly premiums in North Carolina range from under $20 - $68. • Unless you are lower income, you will pay a deductible. A deductible is the amount you pay for your prescriptions before your plan begins to share the costs. No Medicare prescription drug plan may have a deductible more than $250. • Under the Medicare prescription drug plan you will pay co-payments. A co-payment is the amount you pay for your prescriptions after you have paid the deductible. In some plans, you pay a co-payment which is a set amount or pay coinsurance which is a percentage of the cost for any prescription. Different plans have different co-payments. You may pay less for generic drugs than brand names or some brand name drugs might have a lower co-payment than other brand name drugs. In some plans your share of the cost can increase when your prescription drug costs reach a certain limit. # # #
03.07.2006	03.07.06 Burr Announces $2.3 Million for Wake Forest University Funds to be used for Heart and Vascular Diseases Research WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,335,301 in United States Department of Health and Human Services funding for Wake Forest University Health Sciences. The funding from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute will be used to fund research on heart and vascular diseases. "Wake Forest University is a world leader in health care research and medical innovation," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help the school continue its innovative research in heart and vascular diseases." # # #
03.07.2006	03.07.06 Burr Introduces Bill to Encourage Greater Health Care Insurance Coverage Tax deduction would help reduce number of uninsured WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today introduced health insurance legislation to provide an above-the-line tax deduction for individuals who purchase their own health insurance or long-term-care insurance. "Everyone should have access to affordable health care," Burr said. "By providing a tax deduction to those who purchase their own health or long-term care insurance, we can help lower the number of people who do not have coverage by making insurance costs more affordable." The tax deduction makes health insurance more affordable for Americans who purchase their own coverage and makes federal tax provisions fair by equalizing the tax code between those who are self-employed and those who are not. Current law provides an above-the-line tax deduction for self-employed individuals who purchase health insurance; however, non-self employed individuals who purchase their individual health insurance are not eligible for this deduction. This legislation provides an above-the-line deduction for any type of health insurance purchased by an individual. It is not just for high-deductible health insurance plans. In 2005, an estimated 17.4 million Americans were covered by individually purchased health insurance policies. "As health care costs continue to rise, it is important we look for solutions which can make health insurance more affordable for people and their families," Burr added. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.07.2006	03.07.06 Senator Richard Burr Statement on the NASCAR Hall of Fame Coming to Charlotte Washington, D.C. - "This is good news for the Charlotte area and for North Carolina. Not only has an important part of our history been recognized, but the hard work of local officials and supporters has paid off. Racing fans throughout the world will soon travel to Charlotte to visit the NASCAR Hall of Fame, bringing jobs and economic growth with them. I look forward to visiting the Hall of Fame and I congratulate everyone involved."
03.07.2006	03.07.06 Burr Announces $350,000 for Elizabeth City State University Funds to revitalize communities impacted by Hurricane Katrina WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $350,000 in federal funding for Elizabeth City State University in Elizabeth City. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development awarded the funds through the Universities Rebuilding America Partnerships (URAP) Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) program. This program provides assistance to communities, especially for people living in low to moderate income areas impacted by Hurricanes Katrina or Rita. "These funds will support Elizabeth City State University's commitment to service," said Senator Burr. "The funding will help revitalize the communities impacted by Hurricane Katrina." Elizabeth City State University was awarded the funds for providing services and activities for people residing in a disaster area affected by Hurricane Katrina. Elizabeth City State University will use the grant to assist the Boys and Girls Clubs of Southeast Louisiana by implementing comprehensive housing, counseling, technical assistance and referral programs to assist over 250 residents in their housing options. It will also provide repair assistance to homes owned by low to moderate income households and down payments and closing costs to renter status households in efforts to become first-time homeowners. The grant will also provide technical assistance to organizations in the disaster area and funding for repairs to the Boys and Girls Clubs of Southeast Louisiana. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.06.2006	03.06.06 Burr Introduces and Senate Passes Bi-Partisan Bill to Provide More Flexibility in Education North Carolina to receive more flexibility in return for stronger accountability WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr yesterday introduced legislation to reauthorize the Education Flexibility Partnership Act (Ed-Flex). Ed-Flex was created in 1999 to allow states, like North Carolina with strong assessment and accountability systems to waive certain federal education requirements that may impede local efforts to reform and improve education. The bi-partisan bill, which had 16 co-sponsors, was passed by the full Senate Thursday evening. "Ed-Flex has played a vital role in North Carolina's educational system by allowing local school districts to have increased flexibility," Burr said. "I am proud of North Carolina's exceptional school accountability program. As a result of our strong accountability safeguards, the Ed-Flex program helps our schools meet the goals of the No Child Left Behind Act." Ed-Flex was created to help schools implement education reforms and raise student achievement levels by providing more flexibility in the implementation of federal education programs. In return for the additional flexibility, Ed-Flex states must demonstrate enhanced accountability for the performance of students. The U.S. Secretary of Education oversees which states can waive the federal requirements. The Ed-Flex waivers in North Carolina are helping local school systems improve student achievement while meeting federal No Child Left Behind requirements in a number of ways. Examples of how local schools/school systems are using Ed-Flex to advance local reform strategies include: Tutoring for low-achieving or at-risk learners through coordinating federal, state, and local services; developing more inclusive parent involvement initiatives; collaborating and planning with Head Start, developmental specialists, and faculty from local daycare centers to facilitate a smoother transition and more appropriate placement of pre-K students; implementing a hands-on, inquiry-based science curriculum to promote critical thinking skills; providing for ongoing literacy group instruction to allow students to move into and out of the groups, as necessary, during the school year, and expanding after school science clubs and purchasing resources for after school programs. "For the future of North Carolina, it is imperative that we do all we can to assist all students, regardless of background, in reaching high academic standards. Only through a strong education system can we secure a bright economic future for our communities," Burr added. Senator Burr is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP). For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.02.2006	03.02.06 Burr Announces Funding for Madison and Swain Counties Funds to purchase new rescue vehicles WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $124,000 in federal funding for Madison and Swain Counties. The funding for the Town of Hot Springs in Madison County will provide a loan of $6,000 and a grant of $18,000 to purchase a new truck for the Hot Springs Volunteer Fire Department. The funding for Swain County will provide a loan of $75,000 and a grant of $25,000 to purchase a new truck needed for rescue services. The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Project awarded the funds. "USDA Rural Development funds help North Carolina communities purchase much needed fire and rescue vehicles," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help Madison and Swain Counties enhance their rescue response times." USDA Rural Development funds for Madison County will provide financing to purchase a new pickup truck for the Hot Springs Volunteer Fire Department. The new truck will be equipped with a rescue bed and necessary equipment for rescue services. The loan will be over 15 years at 4.5 percent. USDA Rural Development funds for Swain County will provide financing to purchase a new pickup truck for the Swain County Rescue Squad. The new truck will be equipped with the necessary equipment for rescue services. In late March, Senator Burr plans to host a North Carolina Economic Development Summit focusing on federal grant opportunities for Fire and Rescue Assistance. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
03.01.2006	03.01.06 Burr Announces Over $9 Million in Federal Funding for North Carolina Airports Funds to assist with runway construction and airport improvements in Charlotte, Fayetteville, and Jacksonville WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced the release of $9,209,414 in federal funding for Charlotte/Douglas International Airport, Fayetteville Regional Airport/Grannis Field, and Albert J. Ellis Airport in Jacksonville. The funding will be used for airport expansion, infrastructure improvements and rehabilitation of airport facilities. The United States Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration awarded the funds. "FAA funds will bring more economic growth and development to North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help each airport expand its operations and improve its facilities." Charlotte/Douglas International Airport received the following grant: • The Federal Aviation Administration awarded Charlotte/Douglas International $8,381,664 to acquire land that will be used for airport development to include a third parallel runway. Fayetteville Regional Airport/Grannis Field received the following grant: • The Federal Aviation Administration awarded Fayetteville Regional/Grannis Field $500,000 to rehabilitate the regional fire training facility. Albert J. Ellis Airport in Jacksonville received the following grant: • The Federal Aviation Administration awarded Albert J. Ellis $327,750 to assist with security enhancements and runway rehabilitation. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.24.2006	02.24.06 Burr Announces Military Academy Nominations Senator Richard Burr today announced his nominations of thirty-six North Carolinians to serve at one of our nation's military academies. The nominees were selected after an application and interview process with Senator Burr's Academy Selection Committee, made up of military academy graduates, veterans and community leaders throughout the state. The nominees are listed by the academy to which they have been nominated, along with their high school, hometown and parents' names. United States Air Force Academy Nominees Tyler M. Magerkurth Hickory High School Hickory, North Carolina Brian and Valarie Magerkurth Eric A. Jorgensen, Jr. North Carolina School of Math and Science Goldsboro, North Carolina Eric & Beth Jorgensen Jordan W. Roberts Z.B. Vance High School Charlotte, North Carolina Wade and Lisa Roberts Basil H. Struthers III East Mecklenburg High School Matthews, North Carolina Burt and Pam Shuford Michael B. Starnes Hickory Grove Baptist Christian School Charlotte, North Carolina Franklin and Lisa Starnes Joshua B. Schiffer Eugene Ashley High School Wilmington, North Carolina Bryan and Julie Schiffer Michael C. Grudziecki Gramercy Christian School Havelock, North Carolina Michael and Patricia Grudziecki Josh Whiteheart West Forsyth High School Clemmons, North Carolina Paulette and Miles Warfford Michael and Tina Whiteheart Jonathan K. Sullivan Mt. Tabor High School Winston-Salem, North Carolina John and Vicki Sullivan Christopher B. Johnson Western Alamance High School Elon, North Carolina Stephen and Karen Johnson Michael D. Mosteller Forbush High School East Bend, North Carolina David and Denise Mosteller Derek B. Potter South Caldwell High School Granite Falls, North Carolina Terry and Terri Potter Daniel W. Brumfield Dalton L. McMichael High School Madison, North Carolina Darrell and Donna Brumfield Patrick A. Houghton Enka High School Candler, North Carolina George and Darlene Houghton Sean J. Li Chapel Hill High School Chapel Hill, North Carolina Jim Li and Xiaoying Yin United States Naval Academy Thomas Gorry Hickory, North Carolina Currently: Patch Barracks, Stuttgart, Germany Patch American High School Col. Thomas and Kimberlee Gorry Lee E. Robeson Lejeune High School Rosman, North Carolina Currently: Kubasaki High School Currently: Okinawa, Japan Brigadier General Mastin Robeson and Nancy Robeson Sara Hiser Page High School Greensboro, North Carolina Jerry and Regina Clark Charles Henry Hiser, III Zach Perret R.J. Reynolds High School Clemmons, North Carolina Peter and Debra Perret Alec Thomas Bishop McGuiness Memorial High School Kernersville, North Carolina Michael and Laura Thomas Peter A. Beale Cardinal Gibbons High School Raleigh, North Carolina Mark and Nancy Beale Norris W. Evans Forsyth Country Day School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Michael and Mary Beth Evans Henry M. Gass IV Charlotte Country Day School Charlotte, North Carolina Henry and Cynthia Gass William B. "Brad" Cash E.A. Laney High School Wilmington, North Carolina William M. Cash III and Jane M. Cash Josh K. Ulrich New Hanover High School Wilmington, North Carolina Karl and Eugenia Ulrich Samuel F. Brinson South Stokes High School Madison, North Carolina Lloyd and Linda Brinson United States Military Academy Brian G. Temas Mount Tabor High School Winston-Salem, North Carolina Gregory and Janet Temas Preston A. Kiser McCallie School Charlotte, North Carolina John and Brenda Kiser Paul Piavis Southeast Raleigh High School Cary, North Carolina Joy Alkema Bradley J. Marren South Mecklenburg High School Charlotte, North Carolina Bill and Jean Marren Lucas D. Enloe Raleigh, North Carolina Raleigh Charter High School Steve and Nancy Enloe Thomas E. Johnson IV Providence Senior High School Charlotte, North Carolina Thomas E. Johnson III Marie Theresa Shorter Johnson Hunter P. Parrish Douglas Byrd High School Fayetteville, North Carolina Leslie and Doris Spencer Matthew M. Minikus William G. Enloe High School Raleigh, North Carolina Michael and Vicki Minikus Peter H. Lusk William G. Enloe High School Raleigh, North Carolina Scott and Tracy Lusk Merchant Marine Academy Jesselyn F. LaValley Havelock High School Havelock, North Carolina Bernaro and Waynie LaValley
02.23.2006	02.23.06 Senator Richard Burr Cites Need to Learn Lessons from Hurricane Katrina Response Report Praises North Carolina Volunteer Coordination EffortsClick here to view the full White House report The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned. "The White House report on the federal response to Hurricane Katrina is a straightforward review of what went wrong, and, more importantly, the lessons learned. This report outlines 125 specific recommendations to improve disaster response. And of specific concern to North Carolinians, it also includes eleven actions to be completed by the first day of the upcoming hurricane season, June 1st. Hurricane Katrina showed us the public health risks associated with the aftermath of a major natural disaster. As the Senate Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness Subcommittee continues its work to improve public health preparedness in the Public Health Security and Bioterror Preparedness and Response Act, we will look carefully at the recommendations contained in the report. "Having experienced disasters such as Hurricanes Hugo, Floyd and Ophelia, North Carolina is a leader in emergency preparedness. I'm hopeful that other states can learn from our experiences to better coordinate emergency planning and disaster relief and that North Carolina might learn lessons from this disaster, as well." The report specifically praised the efforts of North Carolina, stating that, along with Florida, "their State and local emergency managers better understand what non-governmental assistance is available before, during and after a disaster." (The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned, page 115). The full report can be found at http://www.whitehouse.gov/reports/katrina-lessons-learned. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
02.22.2006	02.22.06 Senator Burr’s Remarks to the Wake Forest University Founders’ Day Convocation To hear Senator Burr's remarks click here. Thank you. Thank you for that very warm welcome. President Hatch, thank you for that very kind introduction. President Hearn, faculty, trustees, students, guests, this is an absolute privilege and an honor to be asked to be here. I am humbled with this institution, its great history, and its tradition. As I prepared for this morning's remarks, I was reminded to look back at the beginning: 1834, the Wake Forest Institute, to try to understand what the vision was that was seen then, and I think President Hatch summed it up very well. It was to be the best at what we do at this institution; to make sure that we turn out the finest product that, in fact, we can educate. Through the history of Wake Forest, it has added numerous new centers of excellence throughout the years with that single goal in mind: to be the best, to produce the finest. This is a great day to remember the founders of this institution, but more importantly, to also recognize the lives that have been affected by this institution. Now, had I known then what I know now, the decision to come here might have been much easier for me. You see, I was just a football recruit. They don't consider us to be too smart. [laughter] On top of that, my parents were nice enough to move to Faculty Drive shortly before my consideration as to whether I would go to Wake Forest, just to be a little bit closer in case I made that decision. Well, I made the decision to come here. I have never regretted, regardless of the record of the football teams the years that I served. [laughter] And as we walked in, I said to the President, I looked over at Huffman Dorm; it brings back tremendous memories because in Huffman, it was the football dorm. It was where they corralled us away from the population. It was a unique atmosphere to go through this institution in. And to balance my life in football was my membership to the Kappa Sig fraternity, one that has proven to bring me friends and brothers across this country still today. But it was challenging come that time in the evening after the football training table when it became time to study. Do you stay in the football dorm, or do you go to the Kappa Sig house? You see, at Wake Forest the library was too crowded for me to study. [laughter] Three operations later, President Hatch, Business seemed like a much better profession for me than athletics. But clearly it was the academic foundation that Wake Forest was able to provide to me that is absolutely so special today. This institution that I love gave me the opportunity as an individual to succeed. It gave me the freedom within the confines of this campus to grow up. It provided for me friendships that have transferred for a lifetime. How can I say this? Because I truly believe that I've seen the heart of Wake Forest University, and I truly believe that those that are here today understand the heart of this institution, or in fact, you would not be here. /Today, we live in historic times. Historic times for individuals, for institutions, and for a country in the world. For some in this room, you were here to see the transition from the radio to the television, to actually see what you had listened to before. Not a student on this campus was here for the development of the desktop computer. How difficult is that to believe? The laptop computer might have come into its own about the time the seniors in this year's graduating class were born. Followed by the internet, cell phones, and camera phones, the hottest thing that everybody carries in their pocket today, but only surpassed now by a device called the iPod, that none of us can figure out exactly what it does. [laughter] As an institution, a rich history, a history of challenges and changes: a new campus, a move, competition, a shift from a traditional North Carolina solicitation of students to fill these great halls to a national and international search for the best and the brightest. The technological changes affected the institution, and as this institution has in its past, it addressed it by being the first in the country to assign every freshman a laptop computer, an infrastructure that is challenged because of the space, whether you're at the law school, the business school, or the undergraduate academic facilities. A human face of a student population that has shifted from a balance between eastern North Carolina and Chicago, Illinois, to one that is represented by countries around the world, and in fact, students that are here for the commitment of our founding fathers, which is to make them the best. And a make-up that has changed the job opportunities not just in America, but the job opportunities around the world that these students will, in fact, compete for. As a country, we've seen the world change. We've seen Eastern Europe transition. We have seen the people of Eastern Europe become free in our lifetime, free to elect, democratically, their representatives. In a global economy that continues to grow we see an international demand for a limited number of natural resources, and we are reminded that we are stewards of what we've inherited. We've seen democracy grow, and we have seen disease disregard any historical boundaries. We have seen things like SARS, eboli, bird flu, that aren't confined because of artificial boundaries, but now move with a mobile population in a world that no longer has challenges that are limited to one country or another, but are truly challenges that face the world. We have seen global instability come from unsuspecting groups. We have seen in our lifetimes a new face of terrorism, one unlike any that we've seen in our history. Some think that historic times produce debate, controversy, and divisiveness. I think they're probably right, but I'd prefer not to get bogged down with the debate and the controversy and the divisiveness. I'd rather focus on the opportunities that change and challenge present all of us. We produced opportunities from historic times, and the question for you today and for this country and for the world is what will we do as individuals, as an institution, as a country. Do we pull back or do we engage? What role do you and what role should the country play? What should guide us as Americans as to how we respond? I would suggest to you today that it's history; that it is in fact our history that should guide this country, specifically that document that we call The Constitution; that document that was written by our founding fathers at a very challenging time when they clearly understood the stakes and realized that they could influence the future with that particular document. There was no greater divisive period or period of debate or controversy, I believe in history, than the period of Abraham Lincoln: The Civil War, a war where the north fought against the south, where states fought against states, where families fought families. One of the greatest privileges that I have is an unlimited access to the United States Capitol, another institution of rich history and great tradition. Some in this room have had the opportunity to visit that institution at night with me when nobody else is there, to stand in the House chamber and to look up at that gallery that the President, once a year, delivers his State of the Union Address, and every visiting dignitary, head of state has the opportunity to address this nation; to walk into Statuary Hall where the House used to meet and to stand on that spot where John Quincy Adams desk stood at when he was in the House of Representatives after he was President of the United States; to walk into that great rotunda and to look up 182 feet at that painting, that fresco, that was painted by Constantino Brumidi, the artist of the Capitol, and completed in 1865, a fresco that in five scenes depicts American history up to that point better than many textbooks that we find in school today; to walk down to the Senate side of the United States Capitol to breeze through the Senate Chamber and to find off to the side in the back the most ornate room in the United States Capitol, the President's room, specifically built for the President to come to Congress to sign the bills into law, probably five bills the first year that Lincoln did it, the first piece of legislation was the legislation to free the slaves; to walk out onto the Speaker's balcony and to look down at America and to wonder "What did Abraham Lincoln think when he looked out after the Civil War," an opportunity as the person who won to truly be punitive, to exclude a population, but not Lincoln. Lincoln gave speeches about uniting the nation, about one nation. You see, I would contend today that Abraham Lincoln was driven by The Constitution; that he understood for a country to progress forward, you had to unite a country first. The challenge for Abraham Lincoln was not one any different than we're faced with today. Today, we once again are divided, engaged in debate. That debate could come from the outcome of elections. I would contend to you that when winning at any cost is in fact the strategy, we need to reevaluate the way we structure the game. The big issues of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and you can fill the list in; they now affect us and not somebody else. War is never a comfortable thing, and I will assure you, it is not an easy decision. But it does bring with it controversy and debate, and we have seen divisiveness result, and judicial decisions of the magnitude that we've seen the last six months in the United States. It's appropriate for us to have the debate. It is also prudent for us to remember the structure that our founding fathers set and their hope that it would serve as our guide. There's no doubt in my mind that Abraham Lincoln read the Constitution before he gave the speeches after the Civil War. I'm reminded of President Reagan's remarks when he said he never could understand what it was about the U.S. Constitution that was so special. It wasn't until he read everybody else's that he understood what was so special about ours. Theirs starts with the government, ours starts with the people. There's a huge difference in how you proceed forward under those guidelines. Thomas Jefferson said "I'm not an advocate of frequent changes in laws and Constitutions, but laws and institutions must advance to keep pace with the progress of the human mind." Here's a founding father that understood the power of the document that they had produced for this country, the roadmap for the future. Yet he reminded us, Congress, the American people, "I'm not an advocate of frequent changes in laws and Constitutions, but laws and institutions must advance to keep pace with the progress of the human mind." The question is will we follow this roadmap that our founding fathers produced for us. Will we remember that it should guide this country now and in the future? Our founding fathers felt that we could overcome any external challenge. I'm a believer today that they never envisioned that we would be challenged in the Lincoln Administration to overcome an internal challenge. I am convinced today the challenge for us is to make sure that we resolve the internal challenges; that when we complete historic times, and we will never completely do that, that we have to remember for this country to go forward it has to be united. It has to be one nation; that in fact it's as much reliant on the American people as it is on the leadership we choose to have in place. To the students that are here today, I want you to remember when you leave this institution: people won't care to learn how much you know, they will want to know how much you care. I can't think of a more appropriate time or a better way to honor our founders of this country and this institution, than to make sure that their dream is fulfilled for the next generation, and the next generation, and the next generation. Our founding fathers deserve us to be vigilante of their vision of this country. The founders of this institution, Wake Forest University, deserve our commitment to serve and our pledge to financially support the continuation of the dream they have for the next generation. May God bless this institution, and may God bless this place that some call the United States of America, and that we call home. Thank you very much. [applause] To hear Senator Burr's remarks please go to http://www.wfu.edu/wfunews/
02.17.2006	02.17.06 Burr Announces Over $12 Million for Piedmont Triad Airport Authority Funds to assist with runway construction and improvement WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced the release of $12,237,916 in federal funding for the Piedmont Triad Airport Authority. The funding will be used for airport expansion and infrastructure improvements. The United States Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration awarded the funds. "These transportation funds will bring more economic growth and development to the Piedmont Triad region," said Senator Burr. "The funds will help Piedmont Triad International expand its airport operations." The U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration funds will be used to provide airfield and infrastructure improvements for the expansion of Federal Express' operations at Piedmont Triad International Airport. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
02.16.2006	02.16.06 Senator Burr, Secretary of Education Spellings to Visit North Carolina Agriculture & Technical University WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr, Secretary Margaret Spellings will visit North Carolina A & T University and participate in a school tour, a luncheon, and media availability on Friday, February 17 at 12:30 PM in Greensboro. Senator Burr and Secretary Spellings will discuss the American Competitiveness Agenda President Bush announced in his State of the Union address in January. The American Competitiveness Initiative proposes $380 million in federal support to improve the quality of math, science, and technological education in K-12 schools. Senator Burr and Secretary Spellings will highlight NC A & T's contributions to the field of engineering and technology. WHO: U.S. Senator Richard Burr U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings James Renick, chancellor, NCAT WHEN: Friday, February 17, 2006 at 12:30 PM 12:30 PM Senator Burr Delivers Brief Remarks 12:35 PM Secretary Spellings Delivers Remarks 1:20 PM Media availability, NC A & T Alumni-Foundation Event Center Foyer 1:40 PM Campus Tour WHERE: North Carolina A & T University, Alumni-Foundation Event Center, 1601 East Market Street in Greensboro # # #
02.16.2006	02.16.06 Burr Announces Visits Over February Recess Senator Richard Burr will visit Anson, Duplin, Forsyth, Greene, Hoke, Jones, Pender, Richmond, Scotland, and Union Counties during the February Recess. Burr will visit schools, businesses, and civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, February 20 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Anson Challenge Academy Anson Challenge Academy 891 NC Hwy 742 South Wadesboro, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address Union County Chamber of Commerce Union County Chamber 903 Skyway Drive Monroe, North Carolina (Press Avail immediately following remarks) Tuesday, February 21 11:00 AM Senator Burr to address Wake Forest University Founders' Day Convocation Wake Forest University Wait Chapel Winston-Salem, North Carolina (Press Avail immediately following Convocation in Benson University Center, Room 344 F) Wednesday, February 22 9:00 AM Senator Burr to present USDA Rural Development check to Maury Volunteer Fire and Rescue Association Maury Volunteer Fire and Rescue Association 3659 Hwy 903 North Maury, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to present USDA Rural Development checks to Greene County Health Care, Inc. and Greene County Water System Greene County Office Complex 229 Kingold Boulevard Snow Hill, North Carolina 10:45 AM Senator Burr to visit Greene County Family Literacy Greene County Family Literacy 602 West Harper Street Snow Hill, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to tour Duplin County Ag Center Duplin County Ag Center 165 Agriculture Drive 280 South NC 11/903 Hwy Kenansville, North Carolina 1:30 PM Senator Burr to present USDA Rural Development check to Town of Wallace Wallace Town Hall 316 East Murray Street Wallace, North Carolina 5:00 PM Senator Burr will participate in a press avail Jones County Office Complex The Commissioners Meeting Room 418 Highway 58 North Trenton, North Carolina Thursday, February 23 1:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Pender High School Pender High School 5380 NC Highway 53 West Burgaw, North Carolina 3:30 PM Senator Burr will participate in a tour of Pender Memorial Hospital Pender Memorial Hospital 507 Fremont Street Burgaw, North Carolina 4:15 PM Senator Burr will participate in a press avail immediately following a tour of Pender Memorial Hospital Pender Memorial Hospital 507 Fremont Street Burgaw, North Carolina Friday, February 24 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Hoke County High School Hoke County High School 505 South Bethel Road Raeford, North Carolina 1:45 PM Senator Burr will tour Richmond Community College Health Science Building Richmond Community College 1042 West Hamlet Avenue Hamlet, North Carolina # # #
02.15.2006	02.15.06 Burr Applauds USTR’s Announcement to Increase Enforcement on Trade with China, Cites Possible Benefits to North Carolina Manufacturing Senator Richard Burr today praised the decision by United States Trade Representative Rob Portman to increase enforcement of our trade laws with China. Ambassador Portman's announcement, which came following a top to bottom review on U.S.-China Trade Relations by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), would increase trade enforcement by: *Expanding USTR trade enforcement capacity to better ensure China's compliance with trade obligations *Establishing a China Enforcement Task Force at USTR, to be headed by a Chief Counsel for China Trade Enforcement *Increasing the focus on regulatory reform in China *Launching an initiative to evaluate, assess and engage on China's subsidies issues, expanding initiatives led by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) "I'm pleased the Bush Administration and Ambassador Portman have identified the need to increase the enforcement of our trade laws with China," said Senator Burr. "This is a good step. There's no question that failing to enforce these agreements has had an impact on North Carolina's economy, especially in our manufacturing sector. By creating a new chief counsel to deal directly with China trade enforcement, I'm hopeful this increased attention to enforcement issues will further protect our economy from additional job losses."
02.15.2006	02.15.06 Burr Announces Fire Grant for Cherokee County Federal funds to expand fire prevention program WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $30,240 United States Department of Homeland Security grant for the Brasstown Fire Department. The grant, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of expanding its fire prevention program to middle and high schools. "Firefighters give so much of themselves to help others in our communities," said Senator Burr. "This grant will help Brasstown expand its successful fire prevention program." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.14.2006	02.14.06 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on the Nomination of Frank Whitney to Serve as U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina "I applaud President Bush for nominating Frank Whitney to be the next Western District Court Judge. Frank is a good pick. He has the solid experience and a track record that will make him an effective judge. I hope the confirmation process for this judgeship will move forward and we can fill the vacancy in the Western District. The impact of federal judgeships on our legal system should not be underestimated, and I urge my colleagues to move forward with the confirmation process and ensure an up-or-down vote on judicial nominees. I also remain hopeful that Judge Terrence Boyle will soon see his nomination considered by the full United States Senate. After years of obstruction, Judge Boyle's nomination was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee seven months ago. I believe it's time for his nomination to move forward."
02.14.2006	02.14.06 College Pays: The Million Dollar Decision College Pays: The Million Dollar Decision February marks the beginning of the college decision season for many North Carolina high school seniors. Applications that were submitted in the fall have been processed and acceptance letters have been mailed. Students are feverishly working on the final touches of scholarship essays. And parents and students are preparing to apply for financial aid. At the end of this season, over 65% of North Carolina seniors will enroll in college resulting in North Carolina having one of the highest college going rates in the nation. But couldn't we do better? According to the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction, over 80% of high school seniors report that they are going to attend college, yet only 65% actually enroll. To assist with the million dollar decision, this Saturday, February 18 is FAFSA Day. At 42 sites across North Carolina, CFNC staff in partnership with financial aid counselors and college access professionals will help thousands of students and their families complete and submit their FAFSA at no cost. To locate the FAFSA Day location closest to you, visit www.CFNC.org. The U.S. Department of Education reports that most parents and families overestimate the cost of college and know little about how to apply for financial aid. Compared to our neighboring states, North Carolina has managed to maintain affordable options for higher education and significantly increase the amount of need-based financial aid. Every high school graduate in North Carolina has access to a community college where the average cost of tuition and fees is $1300 a year. Yet, still many do not enroll. The Census Bureau estimates that, over a lifetime, an adult with a bachelor's degree will earn over $1 million more than a high school graduate. What does it take to make the million dollar decision? First, students must apply to college. There IS a college that can be a good fit for every North Carolina student. Second, students must apply for financial aid. North Carolina college students received more than $1 billion in financial aid last year. Third, students must enroll in a community college or a four year institution and complete a degree. Students who complete a 2-year or 4-year degree will have more career options and opportunities than those that do not. In 1976, high school graduates did not need a college degree to find high paying jobs in industries such as textiles and manufacturing. In 2006, it is a different story. In thirty years, the number of jobs requiring a college education has more than doubled from 28% to 60%. North Carolina must respond to the changing economy by getting more people better educated. One of the first places to learn about educational opportunities is the College Foundation of North Carolina (www.CFNC.org). CFNC is a "one-stop shop" to help students learn how to plan, apply and pay for college. At this very moment, high school seniors are using www.CFNC.org to apply to college and complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. North Carolina is fortunate to have a variety of pre-college support services for all students. The federally-funded TRIO and GEAR UP programs provide individual college planning assistance to more than 40,000 students from low income communities in grades 7 through 12. CFNC provides all students and families with the most comprehensive statewide college planning tools in the nation and is available free of charge. There is no reason that we can't close the gap between those who want to attend college and those who actually do. One of the first steps is to complete the FAFSA form, and this Saturday is a great day to do it! I encourage students and their families to learn more about available student aid. It might just be the decision of a lifetime. # # #
02.13.2006	02.13.06 Burr Announces $150,000 for North Carolina A & T State University Funds to assist with rehabilitation and counseling programs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $150,000 in federal funding for North Carolina Agriculture and Technical State University in Greensboro. The funding will help increase the number of qualified rehabilitation counselors and it will provide flexible programming in response to the educational needs of practicing Rehabilitation Counselors. The United States Department of Education awarded the funds. "U.S. Department of Education funds are important to support high quality educational programs at HBCUs," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help North Carolina A & T further improve its Rehabilitation Counseling program." The grant awarded to the Rehabilitation Counseling program at North Carolina A & T State University is in direct response to Secretary Margaret Spellings' Absolute Priority Program to increase the number of new rehabilitation counseling graduates to work in the State-Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Program. U.S. Secretary of Education, Margaret Spellings will travel with Senator Burr to Greensboro, North Carolina on Friday, February 17, 2006, to visit North Carolina A & T State University. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.09.2006	02.09.06 Burr: FEMA to Provide $3.5 Million in Grants for Carteret and Hyde Counties Federal funds to help eliminate flood damage from WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $3,551,803 in grants from the United States Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency for Carteret and Hyde Counties. The grants, made available by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, will help eliminate repetitive flood damage by elevating homes above the base flood elevation. "These FEMA grants will help Carteret and Hyde Counties prevent future flooding by natural disasters," said Senator Burr. "I am pleased that FEMA recognizes the need for North Carolina communities to be better prepared for potential storms." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency awarded $1,339,580 to Carteret County to eliminate repetitive flood damage. The total project for Carteret County will cost approximately $1.8 million. Hyde County received $2,212,223 to eliminate repetitive flood damage. The total project for Hyde County will cost approximately $2.9 million. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.09.2006	02.09.06 Burr Meets with Gulf Coast Public Health Officials Affected by Hurricane Katrina WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today met with Gulf Coast public health officials. The officials were in Washington to brief congressional staff on public health and medical preparedness and response issues. "I am grateful these men and women who were directly affected by Hurricane Katrina have traveled to Washington to share their experiences," said Senator Burr. "This is a great opportunity to hear about the challenges local communities face in the aftermath of Katrina, and to help us learn how to improve our public health infrastructure." Senator Burr is the Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness. The Subcommittee is expected to address public health preparedness issues this year. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.09.2006	02.09.06 Senator Burr Highlights Contributions of North Carolina’s HBCUs and Business Community to Competitiveness Burr announces Secretary Spellings visit to North Carolina next week WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today discussed President Bush's American Competitiveness Initiative with U.S. Secretary of Education, Margaret Spellings at the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee Hearing. Senator Burr emphasized Historically Black Colleges and Universities' (HBCUs) contributions to the math, science, and engineering fields. He commended North Carolina A&T State University for being the nation's leading producer of African American engineers. In addition, he emphasized the importance of private and public partnerships emphasizing math and science skills such as IBM's pilot program in North Carolina, "Transition to Teaching." "A strong background in math and science is essential for America's young people to compete in a global economy," Senator Burr said. "I am proud of North Carolina's HBCUs and businesses for making a concerted effort to ensure that our students are receiving the best education, and I am pleased President Bush is emphasizing the importance of math and science education through his new initiative." The American Competitiveness Initiative commits $5.9 billion in FY 2007 to increase investments in research and development, strengthen math and science education, and encourage entrepreneurship. U.S. Secretary of Education, Margaret Spellings will travel with Senator Burr to Greensboro, North Carolina on Friday, February 17, 2006, to visit North Carolina A & T State University. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.07.2006	02.07.06 Burr Announces Over $1 Million in Medical Research Grants for North Carolina Universities Duke and UNC – Chapel Hill receive federal funds WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,279,739 in federal grants from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for two of North Carolina's major research universities. The funding will assist medical research at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "North Carolina is a world leader in medical research," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help these institutions continue their contributions to the advancement of medicine." Duke University received the following grants: • HHS' National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases awarded Duke University $527,559 for Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research. • HHS' National Cancer Institute awarded Duke University $399,138 for Cancer Treatment Research. UNC - Chapel Hill received the following grants: • HHS' HRSA Division of Grants Management Operations awarded the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill $84,542 for Maternal Child Health Research. • HHS' National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke awarded the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill $328,500 for clinical research related to Neurological Disorders. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.03.2006	02.03.06 Burr Announces $18 Million for Lenoir County Funds to assist with water treatment and distribution WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $18,376,967 in federal funding for the Neuse Regional Water and Sewer Authority (NRWSA) in Kinston. The funding will provide a loan of $13,750,000 and a grant of $4,626,967. The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Project awarded the funds. "USDA Rural Development funds are important to ensuring effective water treatment and distribution systems in North Carolina communities," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help Lenoir County expand and prosper." USDA Rural Development funds for the Neuse Regional Water and Sewer Authority will provide financing to complete the regional water treatment plant, storage facility, and distribution system. Funding for this project began in FY 2003. Upon completion, this project will provide potable water service to 36,419 residential users and 419 other users. The loan will be over 40 years at 4.500 percent.
02.02.2006	02.02.06 Burr Announces Medical Research Grants for North Carolina Duke, East Carolina, UNC – Chapel Hill, UNC – Pembroke, and the NC Department of Health and Human Services receive federal funds WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $4,927,779 in federal grants from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for three of North Carolina's major research universities and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. The funding will assist medical research at Duke University, East Carolina University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of North Carolina at Pembroke and the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. "I am proud that North Carolina is a world leader in medical advancements," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help these fine institutions continue their inventive contributions to the medical field." Duke University received the following grant: • HHS' National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute awarded Duke University $766,504 for Heart and Vascular Diseases. East Carolina University received the following grant: • HHS' National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases awarded East Carolina University $311,275 for Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research. UNC - Chapel Hill received the following grant: • HHS' National Institute of Child Health and Human Development awarded the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill $2,700,000 for research on mothers and children. UNC - Pembroke received the following grant: • HHS' HRSA Division of Grants Management and Operations awarded the University of North Carolina at Pembroke $400,000 for the Healthy Start Initiative-Eliminating Racial/Ethnic Disparities. NC Department of Health and Human Services: • HHS' HRSA Division of Grants Management Operations awarded the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services $750,000 for the Healthy Start Initiative-Eliminating Racial/Ethnic Disparities. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
02.01.2006	02.01.06 Burr Announces $15 Million Grant for the Piedmont Triad Region Funds to be used for economic development WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $15,000,000 in federal funding from the United States Department of Labor (DOL) for the Piedmont Triad Region. The funding will be used to expand employment, advance opportunities for North Carolina's workers and create high-skill and high wage jobs in the region. The following counties will benefit from the funding: Alamance, Caswell, Davidson, Davie, Forsyth, Guilford, Montgomery, Randolph, Rockingham, Stokes, Surry, and Yadkin. "I am proud North Carolina will get a WIRED Initiative grant," said Senator Burr. "This funding will be a great economic boost to the region." The WIRED Initiative is focused on labor markets that have multiple jurisdictions within a state. The Piedmont Triad Region was one of twelve economic regions selected from across the country by the U.S. Department of Labor to receive funding. The grant will be distributed over a period of three years and will be used to expand employment and advancement opportunities for American workers and focus on the creation of high-skill and high-wage jobs in regional economies. The WIRED Initiative is part of President Bush's Competitiveness Agenda. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov
01.31.2006	01.31.06 Burr Statement on the State of the Union Address by President George W. Bush "I applaud President Bush for his continued commitment to meeting the challenges that lay ahead, both across the globe and here at home. Clearly, we are meeting those challenges head on and we have made progress in protecting our national and economic security. I am optimistic about the issues we face this coming year and I look forward to working toward these big goals. President Bush continues to recognize the importance of our mission in Iraq and our success there. To protect our security, we must continue to work to secure peace while extending freedom and democracy throughout the world. While good people can disagree on specific Iraq policy, we must support our troops, work toward their success and finish the job so they can come home. Personally, I was pleased the President talked about health care which has become a top concern for families and businesses throughout North Carolina. It is absolutely critical that we find some solutions on the rising cost of health care. The President outlined some ways that we can improve health care and I know I will continue to work on health care issues myself in the Senate. We must keep the promises made to seniors and those in need, while at the same time reducing costs North Carolinians pay for quality health care coverage so more people can afford to have good quality care. President Bush tonight also talked about his commitment to greater energy independence and lower energy costs. I'm pleased that President Bush addressed stabilizing energy prices, expanding production and increasing the use of alternative fuels. I applaud him for setting the goal of energy independence with a date certain. I believe it is vitally important to our national security and to our economy that the U.S. can sustain its future energy needs. Having discussed energy independence with the President personally, I know he will back up his words with action, just as he did by signing a comprehensive energy plan into law last year."
01.31.2006	01.31.06 Burr Statement on the Confirmation of Samuel A. Alito to Serve as Associate Justice to the United States Supreme Court "I'm very pleased the United States Senate took up Judge Alito's nomination today in an up-or-down vote. I believe it was important that we moved beyond partisan rhetoric and that Judge Alito got a full and fair vote on the Senate floor. Judge Alito's background as a proven federal judge, as well as his solid judicial temperament, gives him the experience necessary to be an effective Justice. I think the Senate has taken a positive step forward by approving Samuel Alito to serve as an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court. "
01.30.2006	01.30.06 Burr Announces Medical Research Grants for North Carolina Universities Duke, UNC – Chapel Hill, and Wake Forest receive federal funds WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,713,803 in federal grants from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for three of North Carolina's major research universities. The funding will assist medical research at Duke University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Wake Forest University. "North Carolina's universities are world leaders in health care research," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help these fine institutions continue their innovative research in the medical field." Duke University received the following grants: • HHS' National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders awarded Duke University $324,037 to study Biological Research Related to Deafness and Communicative Disorders. • HHS' National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases awarded Duke University two grants totaling $695,583 for Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research. UNC - Chapel Hill received the following grants: • HHS' Fogarty International Center awarded UNC - Chapel Hill two grants totaling $77,475 for the Senior International Fellowship Awards Program. • HHS' National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases awarded UNC - Chapel Hill two grants totaling $671,158 for Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research. • HHS' National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute awarded UNC - Chapel Hill $328,500 for research on lung diseases. Wake Forest University received the following grants: • HHS' National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases awarded Wake Forest University $322,875 for Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research. • HHS' National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases awarded Wake Forest University $294,175 for Kidney Diseases, Urology, and Hematology Research. For more information go to https://www.burr.senate.gov # # #
01.30.2006	01.30.06 Burr Announces $4.2 Million for Guilford County Funds to assist with Head Start projects WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $4,272,569 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for Guilford Child Development in Greensboro. The funding will assist the Head Start program at Guilford Child Development. "Early education is critical to the developmental skills of a child and the Head Start program positively serves North Carolina's children well," said Senator Burr. "The funding will help Guilford Child Development succeed in preparing many of Guilford County's children for school."
01.27.2006	01.27.06 Burr Announces $295,694 for Wake Forest University Funds to be used for Mental Health Research WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $295,694 in United States Department of Health and Human Services funding for Wake Forest University Health Sciences. The funding from the National Institute of Mental Health will be used to fund research on mental health. "Wake Forest University is a leader in health care research," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help the school continue its innovative research on mental health issues and it will help elevate the university in cutting edge medical practices."
01.27.2006	01.27.06 Burr Announces $23 Million in Grants for North Carolina Federal funds to assist with Head Start Projects WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $23,052,509 in federal grants from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for Head Start projects in multiple North Carolina communities. The funding will assist with Head Start projects in Asheville, Chapel Hill, Charlotte, Fayetteville, Goldsboro, Rocky Mount, Salisbury, and Williamston. "The Head Start program plays a vital role in North Carolina's communities," said Senator Burr. "The funding will help these programs prosper and succeed in preparing many of the state's children for school." The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded the following grants to North Carolina: • The Community Action Opportunities in Asheville received $2,103,240. • The Chapel Hill Training-Outreach Project in Chapel Hill received $1,289,280. • The Bethlehem Center in Charlotte received $2,828,263. • The Cumberland Community Action Program, Inc. in Fayetteville received $3,066,947. • The Wayne Action Group for Economic Solvency, Inc. in Goldsboro received $3,591,961. • The Nash-Edgecombe Counties Economic Development, Inc. in Rocky Mount received $3,244,034. • The Salisbury Rowan Community Service Council, Inc in Salisbury received $5,016,676. • The Martin County Community Action, Inc. in Williamston received $1,912,108. # # #
01.27.2006	01.27.06 Burr: Eastern Band of Cherokee to Receive $500,000 in HUD Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $500,000 in federal funding for the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians. The grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development will help develop the communities of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians through better housing and economic opportunities. "Housing and Urban Development funds are important to creating a healthy living environment, job growth and economic development for North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians expand economic opportunities." Housing and Urban Development funds for the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians will provide suitable housing, economic opportunities, and create a positive living environment. # # #
01.25.2006	01.25.06 Burr Announces $385,000 for Duke University Funds to be used for heart and vascular diseases research WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $385,000 in United States Department of Health and Human Services funding for Duke University. The funding, from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute will be used to fund research on heart and vascular diseases. "Duke University is a leader in health care research," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help the school continue its innovative research in heart and vascular diseases."
01.25.2006	01.25.06 Burr Announces $251,750 for the University of North Carolina at Charlotte Funds to be used for digestive diseases and nutrition research WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $251,750 in United States Department of Health and Human Services funding for the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The funding, from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases will be used to fund research on nutrition and digestive diseases. "U.N.C. Charlotte is a leader in health care research," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help the school continue its innovative research in nutrition and digestive diseases."
01.23.2006	01.23.06 Burr Announces $363,333 for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Funds to be used for lung disease research WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $363,333 in United States Department of Health and Human Services funding for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The funding, from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, will be used to fund research on lung diseases. "U.N.C. is a leader in health care research," said Senator Burr. "This funding will help the school continue its innovative research to combat lung disease."
01.19.2006	01.19.06 Senator Burr Announces Support for Judge Samuel Alito to be Associate Justice of the Supreme Court WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced his intention to support Judge Samuel Alito to be Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States when his nomination comes before the full Senate for a vote. "Judge Alito has shown he has the skills needed to do an effective job on the Supreme Court. He has a sound judicial philosophy, impressive legal qualifications and the necessary experience," Senator Burr said. "I believe he is an individual with high integrity and character and he is a proven federal judge who has shown the judicial temperament to be a Supreme Court Justice." Senator Burr's announcement came following Judge Alito's testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee and meeting with him in December in Burr's Washington, D.C. office. Judge Alito has more prior judicial experience than any other Supreme Court nominee in over 70 years. In 1990, he was confirmed unanimously by the U.S. Senate to serve a lifetime appointment on the bench of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals where he has served for the past 15 years. In addition, he has tried cases as an attorney and was given a unanimous "well qualified" rating by the American Bar Association. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to take up the Alito nomination next Tuesday, January 24.
01.18.2006	01.18.06 Burr Announces $21.8 Million for North Carolina Approved federal loan for Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation to extend access to reliable electricity WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $21,811,000 in federal funding for the Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation in Bladen, Brunswick, Columbus and Robeson Counties. The funding through USDA Rural Development will expand services and provide more electricity to communities. "USDA Rural Development funds are important to expanding electricity services in rural North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will ensure reliable electricity." USDA Rural Development funds for the Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation will provide funds to build 297 miles of new distribution lines and will assist in making other system improvements. This project will serve 4,533 consumers. The loan was approved at a hardship rate for 35 years.
01.18.2006	01.18.06 Burr Announces $36,765 in Fire Grants for Brunswick County Federal funds to cover the cost of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $36,765 United States Department of Homeland Security grant for the Leland Volunteer Fire Rescue Department. The grant, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to the fire station. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make Leland safer by ensuring their firefighters are offered the best training and equipment available." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs. # # #
01.18.2006	01.18.06 Media Advisory: Senator Burr to Host North Carolina Economic Summit in Raleigh WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr will deliver opening remarks at the Economic Development Summit on Monday, January 23 in Raleigh, North Carolina. The summit will focus on access to federal grants for community colleges. WHEN: Monday, January 23, 2006 8:45 AM Press check-in begins (All media should arrive to the 1100 Atrium) 9:30 AM Senator Burr delivers remarks 9:45 AM Press Avail (press riser in 1100 Atrium) 10:00 AM Sessions begin (CLOSED Press) WHERE: Legislative Building, 1100 Atrium, 6 West Jones Street, Raleigh All media must show a valid photo press credential to enter the event. Press check-in area will be located near the main entrance of the 1100 Atrium.
01.18.2006	01.18.06 Burr Announces North Carolina Economic Development Summit Event to focus on access to federal grants for community colleges WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced he will cosponsor a North Carolina Economic Development Summit to focus on access to federal grants for community colleges throughout the state. The summit is the first in a series Senator Burr has developed to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This summit aims to enhance community college personnel's knowledge of the federal grants process so they will be better able to share the information with their communities. "Community colleges play a vital role in North Carolina's economy. This first summit is designed to share more information with community college leaders about how to increase their competitiveness for federal grants which stimulate economic development in their communities," said Senator Burr. "In the coming year my office will host additional opportunities to share information with North Carolinians about how to access federal resources." This year, additional events will include summits addressing health care and education related to economic development in the Tar Heel state. In addition to the summits, Senator Burr will host workshops in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. The workshops will concentrate on accessing federal resources and more effective grant writing skills for small businesses and county, city, and town managers. Federal officials from the U.S. Departments of Commerce, Defense, Education, Homeland Security and Labor will facilitate Monday's session discussions. In addition, representatives from Wake Forest University, North Carolina Community College System and state government officials will also actively participate in the workshops and sessions. # # #
01.17.2006	01.17.06 Burr Announces $475,000 for Moore County Funds to assist with school expansion and construction WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $475,000 in federal funding for Neighborhood Youth Leadership, Inc in Southern Pines. The funding will be used to construct a permanent school facility and expand its enrollment. "USDA Rural Development funds assist with the growth of organizations like Neighborhood Youth Leadership, Inc," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help the school expand and will be a real asset to Moore County." USDA Rural Development funds will be used to construct a 20,500 sq. ft. permanent school facility with 19 classrooms, dance/music studios, commons area, auditorium, and administrative area. The new facility will allow the school to expand its enrollment from 162 to 300 K-8 students. The loan was approved at a rate of 4.5 percent over 30 years.
01.10.2006	01.10.06 Burr Announces $1.49 Million for Robeson County Funds to assist with economic development and expanded rural utilities development WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $740,000 in federal funding for the Lumbee River Electric Membership Corporation in Pembroke. The funding will provide loans for rural utilities development. In addition, $750,000 will be given to Robeson County to provide low-interest loans to public and non-profit organizations. "USDA Rural Development funds are important to creating job growth and economic development in North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help Robeson County expand and prosper." USDA Rural Development funds for the Lumbee River Electric Membership Corporation will provide financing for the construction of the hardware and lumber distribution facility for Pembroke Hardware, Inc. This project is estimated to retain 25 employees and create 25 new jobs over the next two years. The loan was approved at a rate of 0 percent over 10 years.
01.09.2006	01.09.06 Burr Announces $5,350,000 for Johnston County Funds to expand Little River Water District WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $5,350,000 in federal funding for the Little River Water District to provide water service to 470 new users in Johnston County. The U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development's Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program approved a loan of $4,350,000 and awarded a grant of $1,000,000 to the district for the construction of 48 miles of water lines, 78 fire hydrants and a master water meter station. "Clean drinking water and proper waste disposal are essential for rural North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help Johnston County expand access to clean water." USDA Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal loans and grants improve the quality of life and promote economic development in rural areas. Residents in the Little River Water District rely on private wells many of which do not currently meet Johnston County health standards. The continued construction of this project, which received $3,092,000 from Rural Development in FY 2005, expands access to clean drinking water to this district. The loan was approved at a rate of 4.25 percent over 40 years.
01.04.2006	01.04.06 Burr Announces a $143,879 Fire Grant for Kernersville Funds to cover the costs of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $143,879 United States Department of Homeland Security grant for the Kernersville Fire Department. The grant, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to the fire station. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make Kernersville safer by ensuring their firefighters are offered the best training and equipment available." The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
12.22.2005	12.22.05 Senate Approves Burr, Dole Resolution Commending Appalachian State University’s National Football Championship WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Elizabeth Dole today applauded Senate approval of a resolution commending the Appalachian State University football team for winning the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I-AA Football Championship. Senators Burr and Dole introduced the resolution Tuesday. The resolution honors the Appalachian State football team for being the first team in school history to win a NCAA Championship. Text of the resolution is below: Commending the Appalachian State University football team for winning the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I-AA Football Championship. IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES Mr. BURR (for himself and Mrs. DOLE) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on ________________________________________ RESOLUTION Commending the Appalachian State University football team for winning the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I-AA Football Championship. Whereas on December 16, 2005, the Appalachian State Mountaineers defeated the Northern Iowa Panthers in the Championship game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association ("NCAA") Division I-AA Football Tournament in Chattanooga, Tennessee; Whereas the Mountaineers are the first team from Appalachian State to win a NCAA Championship in school history; Whereas Appalachian State is the first university in the state to win a NCAA football championship; Whereas head coach Jerry Moore, the all-time winningest coach in Southern Conference history, won his first NCAA title in his seventeenth year as head coach of the Mountaineers, improving to 140-67 his record as head coach at Appalachian State; Whereas defensive ends Marques Murrell and Jason Hunter, as well as safety Corey Lynch were named to the I-AA All America team; Whereas junior defensive end Marques Murrell, who finished with the game with nine tackles and forced a fumble with 9 minutes, 14 seconds remaining in the game, and senior Jason Hunter, who finished the game with ten tackles, returned it for the winning touchdown; Whereas injured senior quarterback and Southern Conference Offensive Player of the Year Richie Williams courageously led the Mountaineers in the second half while playing with an injured ankle tendon; Whereas the Mountaineer defense held the Panthers scoreless in the second half; Whereas backup quarterback Trey Elder led Appalachian State to a 29-23 victory over Furman University to earn a spot in the final contest; Whereas the Mountaineers defeated Lehigh University and Southern Illinois to advance to the I-AA "Final Four"; Whereas the Mountaineer team members are excellent representatives of a fine university that is a leader in higher education, producing many fine student-athletes and other leaders; Whereas each player, coach, trainer, manager, and staff member dedicated this season and their efforts to ensure the Appalachian State University Mountaineers reached the summit of college football; Whereas the Mountaineers showed tremendous dedication to each other, appreciation to their fans, sportsmanship to their opponents, and respect for the game of football throughout the 2005 season; and Whereas residents of the Old North State and Appalachian fans worldwide are to be commended for their long-standing support, perseverance and pride in the team: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate-- (1) commends the champion Appalachian State University Mountaineers for their historic win in the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I-AA Football Championship; (2) recognizes the achievements of the players, coaches, students, alumni and support staff who were instrumental in helping Appalachian State University win the championship; and (3) directs the Secretary of the Senate to transmit a copy of this resolution to Appalachian State University Chancellor Kenneth Peacock and head coach Jerry Moore for appropriate display.
12.21.2005	12.21.05 Burr Announces $302,425 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter training and equipment WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $302,425 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations and emergency vehicles. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make communities throughout North Carolina safer by ensuring firefighters are better equipped to respond to emergencies." Three North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Horneytown Fire Department in High Point will receive $143,844. • Bearpond River Rural Fire Department in Henderson will receive $106,828. • Pelham Volunteer Fire Department will receive $51,753. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
12.20.2005	12.20.05 Burr Applauds Signing of Bipartisan Cord Blood Legislation into Law Burr, co-sponsor of legislation, cites North Carolina’s contributions WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today applauded President George W. Bush's signing into law the bipartisan Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005. The law, co-sponsored by Senator Burr, establishes a public network of human umbilical cord blood stem cell banks to store cord blood units for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia, sickle cell anemia and diabetes. The law also reauthorizes the National Marrow Donor Program. Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Jack Reed (D-RI) and John Ensign (R-NV) joined Senator Burr in co-sponsoring the legislation. "This law will help provide adult stem cell transplant material for those patients who need it, and also provide adult stem cells for scientific research," said Senator Burr. "Cord blood has the potential to save the lives of countless patients nationwide and I am pleased new medical research opportunities will now be available." The law calls for the collection and maintenance of 150,000 units of cord blood, mandates a single electronic database matching cord blood units and bone marrow donors, encourages cord blood donations from a genetically diverse population and ensures cord blood units will be made available for research. As part of the legislation, qualified cord blood banks would have the option of providing free collection and storage of cord blood units for families with an ill child or parent who could be treated later with a cord blood transplant. "I am proud of the valuable work and research taking place in North Carolina," Senator Burr added. "In particular, Dr. Joanne Kurtzberg of Duke University, the Director of the Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, is leading the fight on diseases such as diabetes and Alzheimer's. Dr. Kurtzberg and her team are pioneers in the field, having already performed more than 600 cord blood transplants with unrelated donors - more than anyone else in the world."
12.20.2005	12.20.05 Burr Announces $1 Million Grant for North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center in Raleigh WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $1 million federal grant for the North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center. The grant, awarded by the Economic Development Administration's (EDA) Public Works Investment Program, will help cover the costs of a $2 million conference and training facility. "This grant ensures that the Rural Center will continue to strengthen our local economies in rural North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "The training facility will help bring new jobs to North Carolina and attract new industry." The Rural Center, created in 1987, will match the EDA's investment in North Carolina by raising $1 million for construction costs for the conference and training facility. The facility will allow the Rural Center to continue its work toward improving the quality of life in rural North Carolina communities, especially those with limited transportation and telecommunication resources. EDA Public Works grants attract new industry, encourage business expansion and generate long-term private sector jobs and investment. For more information, visit https://www.burr.senate.gov.
12.14.2005	12.14.05 Burr Announces $241,424 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $241,424 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations and emergency vehicles. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make Oxford, Raeford, Rhodhiss and surrounding communities safer by ensuring firefighters are better prepared to respond to emergencies." Three North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Cornwall Fire Department in Oxford will receive $96,644. • The Town of Rhodhiss Fire Department will receive $77,710. • Raeford Volunteer Fire Department will receive $67,070. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
12.13.2005	12.13.05 Senator Richard Burr Meets with Supreme Court Nominee Judge Samuel Alito Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today met with Supreme Court nominee Judge Samuel A. Alito. During the 30-minute meeting, Senator Burr and Judge Alito discussed Alito's background, judicial experience and his views on judicial activism. "Clearly, Judge Alito has the qualifications and experience necessary to serve as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court," said Senator Burr. "I look forward to closely following Judge Alito's confirmation hearing. Given that he was unanimously confirmed by the Senate in 1990 to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals, I remain hopeful that Judge Alito will receive a fair hearing and receive an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor."
12.09.2005	12.09.05 Burr Announces Visits to Davidson and Rowan Counties WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Monday, December 12, Senator Richard Burr is scheduled to visit Davidson and Rowan counties. Any media wishing to cover Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, December 12, 2005 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Davidson County Community College 297 DCCC Road Lexington, North Carolina 11:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Rowan Regional Medical Center 612 Mocksville Avenue Salisbury, North Carolina # # #
12.08.2005	12.08.05 Burr Calls on Senate to Continue Work on Biodefense Preparedness Legislation Senator Richard Burr today urged his Senate colleagues to continue important negotiations to approve comprehensive biodefense preparedness legislation. "There is no question we need to improve our preparedness for a pandemic outbreak now," said Burr, Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness. "Much progress has been made since the Senate H.E.L.P. committee approved biodefense legislation in October. It is critical the Senate continue negotiations on this important legislation to bring more and better medical countermeasures to the market faster." Burr introduced S. 1873, the Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005, on October 17. The following day, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions approved the legislation by a voice-vote.
12.07.2005	12.07.05 Burr Announces $220,710 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $220,710 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for firefighters in Browns Summit, Thomasville and Rodanthe. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make Browns Summit, Thomasville, Roadanthe and surrounding communities safer by ensuring firefighters in these communities are offered the best training and equipment available." • Northeast Guilford Volunteer Fire Department in Browns Summit will receive $107,690. • Thomasville Fire Department will receive $89,460. • Chicamacomico Banks Fire Department in Rodanthe will receive $23,560. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
12.07.2005	12.07.05 Burr Announces Visits to Iredell and Yadkin Counties WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Friday, December 9, Senator Richard Burr is scheduled to visit schools in Iredell and Yadkin counties. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Friday, December 9, 2005 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit with Fourth Grade students at Celeste Henkel Elementary School 1503 Old Mountain Road Statesville, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit with Fourth Grade students at Yadkinville Elementary School 305 North State Street Yadkinville, North Carolina
11.28.2005	11.28.05 Burr Announces North Carolina Recess Visits Senator Richard Burr will visit Alamance, Chatham, Franklin, Person, Randolph, Vance and Warren counties during the current Congressional recess. Burr will visit community centers, health care centers, businesses and civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Tuesday, November 29, 2005 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Bethel Hill Charter School 401 Bethel Hill School Road Roxboro, North Carolina Wednesday, November 30, 2005 8:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to the Franklin County Chamber of Commerce County Commissioners' Meeting Room 113 Market Street Louisburg, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to visit South Warren Elementary School 216 Shocco Springs Road Warrenton, North Carolina Noon Senator Burr to visit Maria Parham Medical Center 566 Ruin Creek Road Henderson, North Carolina 1:30 PM Senator Burr to visit the Jobs Corps facility 1096 Highway 1 South Kittrell, North Carolina 4:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Orange-Chatham Community Action, Inc. 35 Chatham Street West Pittsboro, North Carolina Thursday, December 1, 2005 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Randolph Hosptial 364 White Oak Street Asheboro, North Carolina Noon Senator Burr to speak at the North Carolina State University Annual Tobacco Day Luncheon Jane S. McKimmon Center North Carolina State University Raleigh, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Armacell 7600 Oakwood Street Extension Mebane, North Carolina
11.17.2005	11.17.05 Burr Introduces Resolution Recognizing the Importance of Community Health Centers Over sixty North Carolina centers provide important health services Senator Richard Burr today introduced a bipartisan resolution recognizing the importance of community health centers and the role the Medicaid Prospective Payment System plays in providing a safety net for low-income and uninsured families. The resolution expresses the sense of Congress that the Medicaid Prospective Payment System for community health centers is critical to ensuring Medicaid recipients and the nation's uninsured have access to high-quality and affordable primary and preventative care services. The resolution also recognizes the role community health care centers play as an essential source of care for millions of Medicaid recipients and uninsured Americans. It was jointly introduced with Senator Barack Obama (D-IL). "Community health centers play a critical role in ensuring all North Carolinians have access to high-quality and affordable health care regardless of their insurance status or ability to pay," said Burr. Community health centers are non-profit, community-owned health care entities that provide high-quality and affordable health care and help reduce the burden on hospital emergency rooms that are often used as a last resort for low-income and chronically ill people for health care needs. North Carolina is home to more than sixty community health centers located throughout the state. In 2004, federally-funded health centers provided care for 279,053 individuals in North Carolina. As a member of the House of Representatives, Burr authored legislation that became law establishing the Prospective Payment System to ensure community health centers receive sufficient Medicaid funding. # # #
11.17.2005	11.17.05 Burr Applauds Senate Approval of Wild Horses Legislation Senator Richard Burr applauded Senate approval of H.R. 126, legislation to allow for an increase in the number of wild horses on Shackleford Banks in Cape Lookout National Seashore. Originally introduced by Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3), the legislation will now head for President Bush's signature. The legislation would amend current law, which permits 100 free roaming horses on the Banks, to allow no less than 110 free roaming horses, with a target population of between 120 to 130 free roaming horses. "Representative Walter Jones has worked hard to increase the protection of wild horses at Shackleford Banks," said Senator Burr. "This bill will help protect the wild horses roaming throughout the area - and provide more local flexibility in deciding how to best protect these animals in the future."
11.16.2005	11.16.05 Burr Announces $349,202 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $349,202 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make Cokesbury, Monroe and surrounding communities safer by ensuring that their firefighters are offered the best training and equipment available." Two North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Monroe Fire Department will receive $230,452 for firefighter operations and safety. • Cokesbury Volunteer Fire Department will receive $118,750 for vehicle acquisition. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
11.10.2005	11.10.05 Burr Introduces Two Veterans Assistance Bills Legislation would help prevent veteran WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today introduced two pieces of legislation to help our Nation's veterans. Senator Burr introduced the Services to Prevent Veterans Homelessness Act to provide $25 million in grants annually to coordinate supportive services to keep low-income veterans in permanent housing so that they do not become homeless. The legislation would increase access to housing assistance programs, physical and mental health services, access to health insurance and vocational and financial counseling. As a Member of the House of Representatives, Burr introduced the Services for Long-Term Homelessness Act, legislation to establish a grant program for services to end chronic homelessness. Senator Burr also introduced the Veterans Outreach Improvement Act, legislation which would provide $25 million in grants for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs to partner with state and local governments for increased outreach to veterans by local Veterans Service Officers. The funds would be used to reach out to veterans and their families to provide better access to veterans benefits for which they are eligible and assist in developing benefit claims. 88 of North Carolina's 100 counties have Veterans Service Officers. "We owe it to those who have served in uniform to ensure their service is honored and they are not forgotten when they return home," said Senator Burr, a member of the United States Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. "Too many of our veterans find themselves in extreme poverty or even homeless. These bills will help our veterans receive access to benefits they have earned and reduce homelessness among those who have served." According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, North Carolina is home to approximately 780,000 veterans. It is estimated that there are over 43,000 North Carolina veterans living below the poverty line.
11.09.2005	11.09.05 Burr Announces $180,619 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $180,619 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for fire departments in Hampstead and Burlington. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations. "Firefighters risk their lives each time they respond to an emergency," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make Hampstead, Burlington and surrounding communities safer by ensuring that their firefighters are offered the best training and equipment available." Hampstead Volunteer Fire Department will receive $124,616 to purchase personal protective equipment. North Central Alamance Volunteer Fire Department in Burlington will receive $56,003 to improve firefighter operations and safety. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
11.02.2005	11.02.05 Burr Announces $998,101 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter recruitment and retention WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $998,101 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program's "SAFER" initiative, will provide for the recruitment and retention of full-time and volunteer firefighters. "Firefighters provide our communities with an invaluable service in responding to emergencies," said Senator Burr. "By helping to recruit and retain firefighters, these funds will make communities throughout North Carolina safer." Six North Carolina fire departments will receive "SAFER" federal grants. They are as follows: • Beaufort Fire Department will receive $283,759. • Asheville Fire and Rescue will receive $271,471. • North Carolina State Firemen's Association in Farmville will receive $237,011. • Churchland Rural Volunteer Fire Department in Linwood will receive $146,360. • Cedar Mountain Volunteer Fire will receive $42,980. • Alarka Volunteer Fire Department in Bryson City will receive $16,520. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
11.02.2005	11.02.05 Burr Announces $332,077 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover the costs of firefighter safety and preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $332,077 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations and emergency vehicles. "When emergencies threaten the safety of our communities, firefighters are the first to respond," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make communities throughout North Carolina safer by ensuring that firefighters are better equipped to respond to emergencies." Four North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Harrellsville Fire Department will receive $122,669. • Boiling Springs Rural Fire Department will receive $92,720. • Union Volunteer Fire Department in Salisbury will receive $91,627. • Total Community Fire Department of Berea in Oxford will receive $25,071. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
10.31.2005	10.31.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr Regarding the Nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court "As the Senate now proceeds with the confirmation process, I am hopeful Judge Alito will receive a fair, dignified hearing followed by an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. I will carefully review Judge Alito's background and qualifications for the Court and look forward to meeting with him personally."
10.26.2005	10.26.05 Burr Announces Nearly $1.9 Million for Firefighters Funds will improve emergency response efficiency Senator Richard Burr today announced $1,889,728 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, equipment and improvements to fire stations and emergency vehicles. "Firefighters routinely risk their lives as first responders," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make communities throughout North Carolina safer by ensuring that firefighters are better equipped to respond to emergencies." Eighteen North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Midway Fire and Rescue in Lexington will receive $285,000. • Concord Department of Fire and Life Safety will receive $264,000. • Wilmington Fire Department will receive $263,916. • Volunteer Fire in Angier will receive $183,303. • Triple Community Fire in Morganton will receive $132,905. • Cherryville Fire Department will receive $122,930. • Atwell Township Volunteer Fire in China Grove will receive $109,155. • Flowes Store Volunteer Fire in Concord will receive $108,395. • Buladean Volunteer Fire in Bakersville will receive $80,750. • Old Dock/Cypress Creek Volunteer Fire in Whiteville will receive $57,370. • Yaupon Beach Fire Department in Oak Island will receive $48,545. • Back Swamp Volunteer Fire in Richlands will receive $45,790. • Newland Volunteer Fire will receive $43,978. • Edneyville Fire and Rescue in Hendersonville will receive $39,596. • Coats-Grove Fire and Rescue in Coats will receive $32,623. • Gumtree Fire and Rescue will receive $30,512. • Morehead City Fire will receive $28,429. • Kings Creek Fire in Lenoir will receive $12,513. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to twenty percent of project costs.
10.25.2005	10.25.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on the passing of Rosa Parks "Rosa Parks showed us the power one person has to change the world. Her simple act was a pivotal moment in the struggle for civil rights. Rosa Parks is an inspiration to millions of Americans. While we mourn her passing, we also know her legacy and spirit will endure."
10.18.2005	10.18.05 Senate H.E.L.P. Committee Approves Burr Biodefense Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions today approved S. 1873, the Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005, authored by Senator Richard Burr. "We must ensure the Federal Government acts as a partner with the private sector, providing the incentives and protections necessary to bring more and better drugs and vaccines to market faster," said Senator Burr. "I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues on these issues as we get ready to take this legislation to the Senate floor." The legislation introduced yesterday by Senator Burr would provide the Department of Health and Human Services with the additional authorities and resources necessary to partner with the private sector to rapidly develop effective medical drugs and vaccines to protect the United States from deliberate, accidental and natural incidents involving biological pathogens such as avian influenza, as well as chemical, radiological, and nuclear agents. Specifically, the legislation would: • Establish the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency, or BARDA, as the single point of authority within the Federal Government for the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures, including drugs and vaccines, in response to bioterrorism and natural outbreaks. • Encourage potential researchers, manufacturers, and health care delivery partners to commit substantial resources to bring innovative new and better products to the market more quickly. • Provide incentives for the domestic manufacturing of medical countermeasures and pandemic or epidemic products within the United States. Under the legislation, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency would: • Report directly to the Secretary of Health and Human Services and serve as the principal advisor on medical countermeasure advanced research and development. • Work with academia and the private sector to accelerate and innovate medical countermeasure development. • Provide direct investment in advanced research and development to ensure that medical countermeasures are widely available in the marketplace. "As home to the third largest biotech industry in the United States, North Carolina is poised to play an important role in the fight against bioterrorism and infectious disease outbreaks," Senator Burr added. "The work being done throughout our state, at biotech companies and medical research centers located at our universities, will help improve public health preparedness of the entire nation." Introduction of the legislation comes after nine months of hearings, roundtables and meetings led by Senator Burr on bioterrorism, biological weapons, infectious diseases and public health preparedness. Senator Burr has also led meetings with representatives of the European Union and the World Health Organization. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
10.17.2005	10.17.05 Senator Richard Burr Introduces Comprehensive Biodefense Legislation Innovative legislation addresses potential threats such as avian influenza and bioterrorism, North Carolina poised to benefit WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, today introduced S. 1873, the Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005. The legislation would provide the Department of Health and Human Services with the additional authorities and resources necessary to partner with the private sector to rapidly develop drugs and vaccines to protect the United States from deliberate, accidental and natural incidents involving biological pathogens, such as avian influenza, as well as chemical and radiological agents. Specifically, the legislation would: • Establish the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency, or BARDA, as the single point of authority within the Federal Government for the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures, including drugs and vaccines, in response to bioterrorism and natural disease outbreaks. • Encourage potential researchers, manufacturers, and health care delivery partners to commit substantial resources to bring innovative new and better products to the market more quickly. • Provide incentives for the domestic manufacturing of medical countermeasures for pandemic and epidemic diseases. "We need to improve our ability to prepare for, and respond to, bioterrorism attacks and natural outbreaks with a comprehensive approach," said Senator Richard Burr. "I believe we need to make sure someone in the Federal Government is partnering with the private sector to quickly develop drugs and vaccines should we need them. By establishing a single agency responsible for developing medical countermeasures and providing sufficient incentives, we will develop more vaccines and drugs at a faster rate - reducing and containing potential threats such as avian flu and bioterrorism." Under the legislation, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency would: • Report directly to the Secretary of Health and Human Services and serve as the principal advisor on medical countermeasure advanced research and development. • Work with academia and the private sector to accelerate and innovate medical countermeasure development. • Provide direct investment in advanced research and development to ensure that medical countermeasures are widely available in the marketplace. "North Carolina is home to the third largest biotech industry in the United States, creating important biomedical breakthroughs not only in Research Triangle Park and Piedmont Triad Research Park, but also through companies in Greensboro, Morrisville, Sanford and elsewhere," Burr added. "Our biotech industry, coupled with the important work performed at the Duke University Medical School, the University of North Carolina's School of Public Health and Wake Forest University's Bowman Gray School of Medicine, ensure North Carolina will play a major role in public health preparedness." Introduction of the legislation comes after nine months of hearings, roundtables and meetings led by Senator Burr on bioterrorism, biological weapons, infectious diseases and public health preparedness. Senator Burr has also led meetings with representatives of the European Union and the World Health Organization. The legislation is co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Mike Enzi, Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg and Senator Lamar Alexander. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
10.07.2005	10.07.05 Burr Announces Recess Visits in North Carolina During October Recess Senator Richard Burr today announced his plans to visit Alleghany, Ashe, Avery, Caldwell, Cleveland, Forsyth, Lincoln, Mecklenburg, Rutherford, Stokes, Surry, Watauga and Wilkes counties during the October recess. The visits will provide Burr the opportunity to meet with North Carolinians at schools, businesses, civic groups and health care facilities. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, October 10, 2005 10:00 AM Senator Burr to attend dedication ceremony at Ronald Reagan High School 3750 Transou Road Pfafftown, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to speak to students at Jones Elementary School 2170 Riverside Drive Mount Airy, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Stokes Medical Center Park 167 South Moore Road King, North Carolina Tuesday, October 11, 2005 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Kerr Scott Dam 499 Reservoir Road Wilkesboro, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Central Wilkes Middle School 3541 South North Carolina Highway 16 Moravian Falls, North Carolina 1:20 PM Senator Burr to speak to students at Alleghany High School 404 Trojan Avenue Sparta, North Carolina 3:15 PM Senator Burr to visit Ashe County Airport 639 Airport Road Jefferson, North Carolina Wednesday, October 12, 2005 12:00 PM Senator Burr to announce federal grant and loan for the Town of Newland Newland Town Hall 301 Cranberry Street Newland, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to announce federal grant and loan for the Town of Crossnore Crossnore School 100 Dar Drive Crossnore, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Caldwell Community College Caldwell Community College and Technical Institute 2855 Hickory Boulevard Hudson, North Carolina 4:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Frye Regional Medical Center 226 North Carolina Highway 165 Taylorsville, North Carolina Thursday, October 13, 2005 8:30 AM Senator Burr to attend Rutherford County Chamber of Commerce Coffee County Annex Building 289 North Main Street Rutherfordton, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to tour Aallied Die Casting Company 401 Aallied Drive Rutherfordton, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Cleveland County Chamber of Commerce Luncheon Cleveland Country Club 1360 East Marion Street Shelby, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Timken Company 1000 Timken Place Iron Station, North Carolina Friday, October 14, 2005 9:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at the Carolina Communications Forum 601 South College Street Charlotte, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Ingersoll Rand 800 Beaty Street Davidson, North Carolina
10.07.2005	10.07.05 Senators Burr, Allen Introduce Legislation to Stabilize Gas Supply, Help Reduce Gas Price Spikes While Maintaining Environmental Standards Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and George Allen (R-VA) today introduced the Affordable and Reliable Gas Act of 2005, legislation to help decrease U.S. vulnerability to gasoline price spikes by reducing the number of available special fuel blends on the market, commonly known as boutique fuels, and consolidating the number of clean fuel blends. The large number of boutique fuels has reduced gasoline availability because the variety of gasoline blends makes it more difficult to substitute blends in response to a gasoline shortage. For example, a locality using one boutique fuel facing a gasoline shortage may not be able to use the gasoline of a nearby community and would be forced to seek gasoline from more distant community thereby increasing cost and lengthening the shortage period. The number of boutique fuels also increases production and delivery costs of gasoline causing spikes in gasoline prices. Building off of the recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Affordable and Reliable Gas Act of 2005 would stabilize the supply and cost of gasoline by placing a cap on the number of boutique fuels on the market - with the goal of one diesel fuel and four gasoline fuels in use across the nation, outside of the state of California, by December 31, 2008, should the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy determine the reduction in the number of boutique fuels would not cause a major gasoline supply disruption. The legislation maintains the stringent Clear Air Act environmental standards by requiring the selection of each fuel blend be based on its ability to reduce ozone emissions as in current law. "The price spikes we have recently seen at the pump are directly attributable to our inability to easily move gasoline supplies from one locality to another," said Senator Burr. "By reducing the number of boutique fuels, we can assure a more reliable gasoline supply, thereby reducing and stabilizing gas prices without sacrificing existing environmental standards." In June of this year, the Government Accounting Office (GAO) found that "the proliferation of special gasoline blends has made it more complicated to supply gasoline and has raised the costs, significantly affecting operations at refineries, pipelines and storage terminals." The effects of this increase were seen in the supply disruptions and price increases from the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. In September, Burr introduced legislation with Senator Allen to require the Secretary of Energy to report to Congress on the existing federal plans and procedures related to significant interruptions in the transmission of gasoline and other petroleum products. The Senators also called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to extend existing waivers for federal reformulated gasoline (RFG), sulfur controls and on-road diesel sulfur standards. The EPA extended the waivers in September.
10.06.2005	10.06.05 Burr Applauds $1,027,995 FEMA Grant for North Carolina Funds to prevent future flooding in Avery County Senator Richard Burr today applauded a $1,027,995 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant for Avery County. The grant, made available by FEMA's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, will assist local officials in preventing future flood losses in the towns of Newland and Minneapolis. The State of North Carolina will provide Avery County with $342,665 in additional funding. "Natural disasters, such as hurricanes and floods, have in the past cost many North Carolinians everything," said Senator Burr. "These funds can play a critical role in better protecting life and property from future natural disasters." Hurricanes Frances and Ivan caused heavy flooding in Avery County last year. Avery County will use the funding to acquire homes in areas prone to flooding and demolish them. The removal of these structures from the floodplain will reduce environmental degradation. The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program provides grants to state and local governments to implement long-term recovery measures after a major disaster declaration. The purpose of the program is to reduce the loss of life and property in natural disasters.
10.05.2005	10.05.05 Senator Richard Burr to Introduce Comprehensive Biodefense Legislation Public health preparedness legislation to address potential threats such as avian influenza and bioterrorism Senator Richard Burr today announced plans to introduce comprehensive biodefense legislation following the October recess. The legislation, the National Biodefense Act of 2005, will be formally introduced in the Senate with the intent of marking up the bill in Committee this fall. Burr, chairman of the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, made the announcement after meeting with Republican and Democrat colleagues on the subcommittee and after chairing subcommittee hearings on biodefense issues throughout 2005. The legislation would: • Establish the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency as a single point of authority within the Federal Government for developing medical countermeasures, including drugs and vaccines, in response to bioterrorism and natural outbreaks. • Encourage potential researchers, manufacturers, and health care delivery partners to commit substantial resources to bring innovative new and better products to the market more quickly. • Provide incentives for the manufacturing of medical countermeasures and pandemic or epidemic products within the United States. "We must be prepared for any possible disease outbreak," said Senator Burr. "This legislation will provide a comprehensive approach to combat deliberate, accidental or natural outbreaks of infectious diseases. By establishing a single agency responsible for medical countermeasures, we will be able to develop more drugs and vaccines at a faster rate and reduce our vulnerability to potential health threats like avian flu and anthrax." Under the legislation, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency would: • Report directly to the Secretary of Health and Human Services and serve as the principal advisor on medical countermeasure advanced research and development. • Accelerate and innovate medical countermeasure development. • Provide direct investment in advanced research and development to ensure that medical countermeasures are widely available in the marketplace.
10.05.2005	10.05.05 Burr Announces $918,137 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds will improve firefighter safety and efficiency Senator Richard Burr today announced $918,137 in United States Department of Homeland Security grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, protective equipment and improvements to fire stations. "It is critical that our firefighters have the best training and equipment available," said Senator Burr. "These grants will make communities throughout North Carolina safer by ensuring that firefighters are better equipped to respond to emergencies." Eight North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Winterville Fire Department will receive $223,875. • Godwin-Falcon Fire Department in Falcon will receive $171,950. • Lumberton Fire Department will receive $140,670. • Lewisville Volunteer Fire Department will receive $130,515. • Lebanon Volunteer Fire Department in Durham will receive $97,641. • East Side Fire Department in Asheboro will receive $86,211. • Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department in Lucama will receive $42,750. • Pinecroft Sedgefield Fire District in Greensboro will receive $24,525. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to 20 percent of project costs.
10.03.2005	10.03.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr Regarding the Nomination of Harriet Miers to the Supreme Court "I welcome President Bush's nomination of Harriet Miers to serve as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. As the confirmation process begins, I will carefully review Ms. Miers' qualifications and I look forward to meeting with her personally. I am hopeful that she will receive a fair, honest hearing followed by an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor."
09.29.2005	09.29.05 Burr Applauds Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Approval of Wild Horses Legislation Senator Richard Burr applauded Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee approval of H.R. 126, legislation that would allow for an increase in the number of wild horses on Shackleford Banks in Cape Lookout National Seashore. The legislation, originally introduced by Congressman Walter Jones, was approved yesterday afternoon by the committee and will now proceed to the full Senate. The legislation would amend current law, which permits 100 free roaming horses on the Banks, to allow no less than 110 free roaming horses, with a target population of between 120 to 130 free roaming horses. "This legislation helps return the decision making process for national parks back where it belongs - with the local communities," said Senator Burr. "As a member of the Energy and Natural Resources committee, I'm proud to have helped move the legislation forward, but I also know Congressman Walter Jones has been a tireless advocate for protecting wild horses at Shackleford Banks. Walter's commitment has been critical to making this vital legislation one step closer to becoming a reality."
09.29.2005	09.29.05 Senate Approves Burr/Salazar Resolution to Honor the Memory of Lewisville Native and Recognize "National Take a Kid Mountain Biking Day" The United States Senate last night approved a resolution authored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Ken Salazar (D-CO) to honor the memory of Lewisville native Jack Doub and recognize the first Saturday in October as "National Take a Kid Mountain Biking Day." Jack Doub, a nationally competitive mountain biker from Lewisville, died unexpectedly in 2002 from complications related to a bicycling injury. "It is so important that our children stay active and physically fit," said Senator Burr. "Bicycling, as Jack loved to do, is one of the best ways to stay active and prevent the health risks associated with childhood obesity." Last year, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a resolution introduced by then-Congressman Burr to make the first Saturday in October "National Take a Kid Mountain Biking Day." The resolution expresses the Senate's support for the goal of "National Take a Kid Mountain Biking Day" to promote physical fitness among young people, especially through biking. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
09.28.2005	09.28.05 Burr Urges Senate Confirmation of Judge John Roberts, Calls for an End to Divisiveness Senator Richard Burr spoke on the Senate floor today to urge his colleagues to vote in support of the nomination of Judge John Roberts for Chief Justice of the United States. Video of Senator Burr's remarks can be seen on his webpage at https://www.burr.senate.gov. Text of his remarks is below. The vote on Roberts is expected tomorrow. "Mr. President: I rise today like my colleague to support the nomination of Judge John Roberts to be the Chief Justice for the United States Supreme Court. To those that know me, to those that have heard me talk on this subject, this is no great surprise, but voting on a Supreme Court nomination is a very rare task, and it's more historic now as the Senate will consider a nominee for the top job of the Court. Mr. President, the question I ask today is - Why should America care about this debate? This debate is more significant than a lifetime appointment of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. This debate is more significant than the influence that one single individual brings that is chosen. This debate is about future decisions that will affect the lives of every American - that will affect our children and our children's children. From our civil liberties, to property rights, questions of life and death, to safety in communities, to our very basic freedoms, there is no area in our daily lives that is not somehow affected by the judicial decisions of the United States Supreme Court. The decisions made by the Court today will have a lasting effect long after we've gone from this institution. It's essential, absolutely essential, that we confirm not only competent, impartial judges, but those who are the very brightest, and those who are good citizens and understand the task that they've been nominated and confirmed for. Over the course of the last several weeks, we've all had the opportunity to hear from legal experts, from political analysts about Judge Roberts and the chances of success of his nomination and his confirmation. We've had a process of very detailed hearings where our colleagues, many of which are lawyers, have asked the most appropriate questions with a lot of thought, a lot of time to deliver the questions. And, we have seen the response of a brilliant lawyer, with no notes, quote from case law from years past that appropriately answer the question that didn't affect future cases that the court might hear. Now, I'm not a lawyer, and perhaps I don't judge Judge Robert's legal background in the same way that lawyers might judge him. But I do understand people. I understand when I meet somebody that's a good person. I've met Judge Roberts. This is a good person. This is an individual that America can be proud of when they refer to him as Chief Justice. Mr. President, a couple weeks ago I had the opportunity to have Judge Roberts in my office. We talked about his background, his life experiences, we talked about our families. I didn't quiz him on legal precedent, court rulings. I didn't present him with hypothetical cases or his positions on hot topics of the day. That, quite frankly, wasn't the ground that I was focused to go over. Personally, as a husband and a father, I wanted to know where Judge Roberts truly stood and understood the job that he is being asked to do. I wanted to know if he truly understood the responsibilities - not just as a lawyer, not just as a Justice - but as a husband and as a father. And the importance of the decisions that he'd rule on and how they would affect not only his family, but in a real way, he would understand how they would affect every family in North Carolina. Now as a Senator, we're all responsible for constituents. I'm responsible for representing more than 8 ½ million North Carolinians and I wanted to know, quite frankly, if Judge Roberts intends to preserve our nation's Constitutional principles, by interpreting law, not making law. I'm proud to tell you that based on his answers to me and his testimony to the Judiciary Committee, I am confident he will do just that - interpret the law, not write the law. Judge Roberts has the academic and professional credentials to serve as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. But, Mr. President, there's something that concerns me today. It concerns me and it should concern the American people. This vote will not be unanimous. This vote will be far from unanimous based upon reports from Senators. Why? Politics. I'm not sure that it's ever permeated the process to the degree that it has in this. As we stand here today, with one of the brightest nominees, ready to confirm, some in this institution are already suggesting that the next nominee has no chance. There's not a person that has been nominated. There's a group of names that has been talked about. I might remind them that Judge Roberts was never talked about in the group that was forwarded to come up in the President's first nomination. Yet some suggest we're going to move the bar even further for the next nominee that comes through. Mr. President, divisiveness has to stop in this institution. We choose the best and the brightest to serve this country. If we consistently move that bar, if we consistently dig to find things that no other Congress has looked for, if we're not careful, no one will want that job. If we're not careful, the best and the brightest legal minds in this country that would serve on the bench and serve with distinction, regardless of what party they're from, when they get that call, they will say, 'Mr. President, I want to pass. I can't put my family through it. I can't put myself through it. The risk of going through with it is too great to everything around me to serve my country.' I ask all of us - what message are we sending to our children when the best and the brightest pass, when they elect not to go through the process that we in this body have control of? This is a defining time for the United States Senate. This will determine who's willing in the future to actually serve their country and serve it in one of the single most important areas, the United States Supreme Court. Mr. President, I am confident that Judge Roberts holds the academic credentials, he holds the professional credentials, but more important, I am confident today that Judge Roberts is a good man. He deserves the support of every member of the United States Senate to become Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court."
09.23.2005	09.23.05 Burr Announces $799,706 Grant for UNC-Charlotte Funds to improve services to disabled youth Senator Richard Burr today announced a $799,706 United States Department of Education grant for the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The funds will provide for the creation of a Secondary Transition Technical Assistance Center (STTAC) to improve educational services for disabled youth. "Every child deserves a chance to succeed," said Senator Burr. "These funds will assist leaders at UNC-Charlotte in offering critical educational services to North Carolina youth." The U.S. Department of Education provides funding to promote academic achievement for children with disabilities. STTAC will help North Carolina build state and local level education infrastructure for youth with disabilities.
09.22.2005	09.22.05 Burr Announces $328,600 in Grants for Canton Funds to continue cleanup from Hurricanes Frances and Ivan Senator Richard Burr today announced $329,600 in United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development grants for Canton. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Community Facility Grant Program, will cover the costs of repairing the Canton Town Hall, Armory and Senior Center, Police Department, Fire Department and Library. "We must respond to the needs of our communities damaged by natural disasters," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help the people of Canton continue to recover from two devastating hurricanes." Community Facility Grants cover the improvement costs of facilities that provide public services to rural North Carolinians. Flooding caused by Hurricanes Frances and Ivan, in which water levels rose up to nine feet, damaged important facilities that provide public services to residents of Canton. Canton will receive $200,000 to complete the repairs to the first floor of the Town Hall and Police Department. The town will also receive $85,000 to repair the Armory and Senior Center, and will receive $42,000 to repair its Fire Department. The Canton Library will use a $2,600 Rural Development grant to clean and repair storm damage.
09.21.2005	09.21.05 Burr Announces $858,114 in Fire Grants for North Carolina Funds to cover costs of firefighter safety and preparedness Senator Richard Burr today announced $858,114 in Operations and Safety grants for North Carolina firefighters. The grants, made available by the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, will cover the costs of training, protective equipment and improvements to fire stations. "North Carolina firefighters must have the best equipment and training available," said Senator Burr. "These grants will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our first responders and make our communities safer." Ten North Carolina fire departments will receive federal grants. They are as follows: • Eli Whitney Volunteer Fire Department in Snow Camp will receive $200,960. • Linville Volunteer Fire Department will receive $128,091. • Conover Volunteer Fire Department will receive $95,089. • Faison Fire and Rescue will receive $91,361. • Swepsonville Fire Department will receive $89,917. • Spivey's Corner Volunteer Fire Department in Dunn will receive $81,908. • South Fork Volunteer Fire Department in Lincolnton will receive $73,597. • Enochville Fire and Rescue in China Grove will receive $47,092. • Wittenburg Volunteer Fire Department in Taylorsville will receive $30,719. • Deep Gap Volunteer Fire Department will receive $19,380. The United States Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness oversees the United States Fire Administration. Firefighter assistance programs provide federal funding directly to local firefighters to ensure they are well-equipped to protect their communities. Local fire departments share up to 20 percent of project costs.
09.20.2005	09.20.05 Burr Announces $272,000 Grant for Native Americans Funds to provide for increased community development Senator Richard Burr today announced $272,000 in Native American community development grants for The Sequoyah Fund in Cherokee and Lumbee Revitalization & Community Development in Lumberton. The funds were made available by the Native American Community Development Financial Institutions Assistance Program. "It's important to North Carolina's economy to increase Native American access to financial institutions and community development opportunities," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help provide North Carolina Native American communities with increased housing and business opportunities, thereby strengthening our state." The Sequoyah Fund, a non-profit corporation promoting the welfare of the Eastern Band of Cherokees, will receive a grant of $140,000 to purchase accounting and loan management software, update its loan policies and procedures and cover the cost of financial services staff training. The Lumbee Revitalization and Community Development Corporation (LRDCD) assists Lumbee Tribal Members and other Native Americans living in Robeson County to acquire affordable housing and develop small businesses. The LRDCD grant of $132,000 will be used to purchase loan management software, train staff for loan portfolio management and for long-term financial planning.
09.15.2005	09.15.05 Senator Burr Announces Support for Judge John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the Supreme Court Senator Richard Burr today announced his intention to support Judge John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States when his nomination comes before the full Senate for a vote. Senator Burr's announcement came after Judge Roberts' three days of testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Earlier today, Senator Burr met with Judge Roberts in his Washington, D.C., office. During the meeting, Senator Burr questioned Judge Roberts about his background, judicial activism and tort reform. "After following his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee and meeting with him, it's clear to me Judge Roberts has the temperament and respect for the rule of law necessary to be an excellent Chief Justice," Senator Burr said. "Having argued thirty-nine cases before the Supreme Court, Judge Roberts brings a unique background to the Court which will help him lead the Court during this critical time in our history."
09.15.2005	09.15.05 Burr Announces $600,000 for Winston-Salem State University Funds for community development outreach Senator Richard Burr today announced a $600,000 federal grant for Winston-Salem State University (WSSU). The grant, awarded by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Historically Black Colleges and Universities grant program, will assist WSSU in revitalizing its surrounding neighborhoods and communities. "Our Historically Black Colleges and Universities are institutions of which we can all be proud," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help Winston-Salem State University continue its efforts to enrich the community and assist local neighborhoods and businesses." WSSU will use funds to expand the community development activities of the Simon Green Atkins Community Development Corporation (SGACDC), an outreach arm of the university established in 1998. The SGACDC works with local businesses and civic organizations to bring affordable housing, business opportunity and credit counseling to Winston-Salem.
09.09.2005	09.09.05 Burr, Allen Push to Ensure Stability in Gasoline Supply Introduce Legislation on Petroleum Delivery and Distribution, Urge EPA to Extend Gasoline Waivers Washington, D.C. - Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and George Allen (R-VA) today introduced legislation that would require the Secretary of Energy to report to Congress on the existing federal plans and procedures relating to significant interruptions in the transmission of gasoline and other petroleum products. The legislation would require the Secretary of Energy to report to Congress the procedures and protocols by which the Secretary notifies the Governor and any Federal elected official of a state affected by a significant interruption of energy. The legislation would also require the Secretary of Energy to recommend possible legislation on the implementation and efficiency of a contingency plan by the Department of Energy. The legislation is intended to prevent confusion regarding the proper protocols for notification of state and federal official should significant supply disruptions occur in the future. Senators Burr and Allen also called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to extend existing waivers for federal reformulated gasoline (RFG), sulfur controls and on-road diesel sulfur standards. In a letter to EPA Administrator Steve Johnson, Senators Burr and Allen expressed concern that gasoline and diesel fuel inventories have not yet recovered fully to a level where extended waivers or additional measures should not be considered to bring additional fuel supplies to the market. "While it is important that we work towards a solution to the current gasoline interruptions, we must also work to ensure that we do all we can to prevent similar disruptions in the future. This report is an important step in ensuring stability in our gasoline supply," said Senator Burr. "While I have been pleased with the efforts in the Gulf Coast to fully restore gasoline supplies, I remain concerned about the possibility of gasoline price volatility if steps are not taken to extend existing waivers." "It's essential that we learn from the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina that we must take steps to protect Americans from the type of gas price volatility that we saw as a result of this devastating storm," said Senator Allen. "At a minimum, the Department of Energy needs to clarify the way in which it plans to handle future supply disruptions so that the States can minimize the confusion that leads to higher gas prices." "In addition, when we talk about what this country can do to alleviate high gas prices, it's vital that Congress repeal the slew of burdensome and costly regulations on boutique gas formulations that do nothing but drive up the cost at the pump for all Americans," Allen added.
09.09.2005	09.09.05 Burr to Discuss Economic Revitalization of Kannapolis Senator Burr will join State and local education and business leaders Senator Richard Burr will discuss economic development initiatives beneficial to the Kannapolis region, at a community celebration in Kannapolis. The celebration, to be held on Monday, September 12, 2005, will take place at the site of the former Pillowtex plant. "The closure of Pillowtex was a tough blow to the local economy and to the people of Kannapolis," said Senator Burr. "It is critical that we revitalize the economy of Kannapolis and work together to increase jobs and opportunities across North Carolina." The celebration is scheduled for 10:00 AM at One Lake Circle Drive, Kannapolis.
09.09.2005	09.09.05 Burr to Address Deploying Troops in Rocky Mount Army Reserve’s 849th Quartermaster Corps to be deployed to Iraq for 18 months Senator Richard Burr will address and meet with members of the United States Army Reserve's 849th Quartermaster Corps in Rocky Mount on Sunday, September 11, 2005. The deployment ceremony will be held for the forty-five members of the 849th who are being deployed to Iraq for an eighteen-month tour of duty. "Last month I had the opportunity to visit with our soldiers in Iraq and saw first-hand their commitment to completing the mission at hand," said Senator Burr. "I know the men and women of the 849th Quartermaster Corps share that commitment and I thank them and their families for their service." The deployment ceremony is scheduled for 12:00 PM at the Army Reserve Center, 804 North Fairview Road, Rocky Mount.
09.09.2005	09.09.05 Burr Announces $237,966 in School Safety Grants Funds will enhance security equipment for school safety Senator Richard Burr today announced $237,996 in United States Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) school safety resource grants for North Carolina. The federal funds, made available through the Justice Department's Secure Our Schools Program (SOS), will assist officers in improving security at North Carolina schools. "We must ensure that our students can work and learn in the safest possible environment," said Senator Burr. SOS grants are awarded to law enforcement officials and school systems. The Orange County Sheriff's Department will receive $142,660. Moore County Schools will receive $49,270. Lee County Public Schools will receive $21,255. Camden County will receive $14,841. The City of Raleigh will receive $10,000. SOS grants help cover the cost of enhanced security in schools such as the installation of metal detectors, locks, lighting and other equipment. COPS officials work with grantees to address the most pressing security needs in their city or county.
09.08.2005	09.08.05 Burr Praises Approval of Higher Education Act Legislation Would Assist North Carolina Schools and Students and Better Prepare Workforce Senator Richard Burr praised today's passage of the Higher Education Amendments Act of 2005. The bill would reauthorize the federal Perkins Loan program, help meet the demand for highly qualified teachers under the No Child Left Behind Act and reauthorize programs to support Historically Black Colleges and Universities. "Our colleges and universities are not only a source of pride throughout the state - they also hold the key to economic growth in North Carolina," said Senator Burr, who voted in support of the bill. "This legislation will help North Carolina colleges and universities better prepare the next generation of students to be valuable participants in our state's economy." The Higher Education Amendments Act of 2005 would also: • Permit the Secretary of Education to award Pell grants on a yearly basis so that students may graduate from college more quickly. • Reauthorize the GEAR Up program, which provides assistance for states or partnerships to help low-income students prepare for college. • Support Native American serving institutions seeking to expand or improve its facilities, of critical importance to the University of North Carolina at Pembroke and Robeson Community College.
09.04.2005	09.04.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on the Death of Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist "Our thoughts and prayers are with the Rehnquist family during this very sad time. Chief Justice William Rehnquist served our country and the Supreme Court with honor and distinction. His contributions to our system of justice will guide the Court for years to come. America has lost a great Chief Justice. He will be missed. I believe the Senate will work with the President expeditiously to fill both vacancies on the Court."
09.01.2005	09.01.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina: "As we work to help the Gulf Coast recover from Hurricane Katrina, I know the thoughts and prayers of all North Carolinians are with those directly affected by the Hurricane, especially those who have lost loved ones, homes and businesses. The federal government will do all it can to provide disaster relief to the affected region in the wake of this terrible natural disaster. I urge all North Carolinians to reach out to organizations providing assistance related to this disaster, or to contact local churches, charities or civic groups which have information on relief efforts. For more information on how to help, please visit my webpage at https://www.burr.senate.gov."
09.01.2005	09.01.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr in response to questions regarding rising gasoline prices: "I am hopeful energy supplies in North Carolina, which depend on pipelines in the Gulf Coast region, will not be severely disrupted. This matter is being closely monitored by federal, state and local governments and I have been in communication with the Department of Energy and Governor Easley. I also look forward to participating in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearings next week to work against any potential price gouging of gasoline consumers."
08.29.2005	08.29.05 Burr Announces August Recess Visits in North Carolina Senator Richard Burr today announced his plans to visit Bertie, Chowan, Currituck, Dare, Edgecombe, Gates, Halifax, Hertford, Northampton, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Tyrell and Washington Counties. The visits will provide Burr the opportunity to meet with North Carolinians at schools, businesses, civic groups and health care facilities. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Tuesday, August 30, 2005 8:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to the Tyrrell County Chamber of Commerce 4-H Agriculture Center 100 North Clover Highway Columbia, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit the Wanchese Seafood Industrial Park 615 Harbor Road Wanchese, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to the North Banks Rotary Club Western Sizzlin' 804 South Croatan Highway Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to tour the Currituck County Airport 264 Airport Road Maple, North Carolina 27956 4:30 PM Senator Burr to visit the Food Bank of Albemarle 109 Tidewater Way Elizabeth City, North Carolina Wednesday, August 31, 2005 10:30 AM Senator Burr to speak to Perquimans County High School students 305 Edenton Road Street Hertford, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Regulator Marine 187 Peanut Drive Edenton, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Washington County Hospital 958 Highway 64 East Plymouth, North Carolina 27962 Thursday, September 1, 2005 8:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Martin Community College 1161 Kehukee Park Road Williamston, North Carolina 10:00 AM Senator Burr to tour Bertie Medical Complex 1403 South King Street Windsor, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Open Gates Alternative School 101 Highway 32 North Sunbury, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to tour Berry/Kerr Packaging Plant 228 Johnny Mitchell Road Ahoskie, North Carolina Friday, September 2, 2005 9:30 AM Senator Burr to attend ribbon cutting ceremony at the Garysburg Town Hall 504 Old Highway Garysburg, North Carolina 1:30 PM Senator Burr to speak to students and educators at Tarboro High School 1400 West Howard Drive Tarboro, North Carolina
08.24.2005	08.24.05 Burr to Discuss Bioterrorism with State Leaders in Durham Thursday Will address law enforcement officials, public health officials, emergency responders Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, will visit Durham tomorrow to speak to North Carolina government leaders, public health and law enforcement officials, military personnel and emergency responders participating in the Prevention & Response Integration Conference & Exhibition (P.R.I.C.E. of Freedom). Burr will speak at 9:15 AM at the Sheraton Imperial Hotel to discuss North Carolina's role in fighting bioterrorism, as well as emergency response and preparedness. "While we work to prevent terror attacks, we must also work to know how best to respond to them in an integrated and coordinated fashion," said Senator Burr. "Prevention and response are essential tasks of law enforcement, military, emergency responders and public health officials. When they are coordinated, we are all better protected." Burr's subcommittee has jurisdiction over a wide range of bioterrorism and public health issues including BioShield, the Centers for Disease Control, immunizations, infectious diseases and vaccines. The Subcommittee has held several hearings this year on 21st century biological threats, the development of biomedical countermeasures and the availability of effective drugs and vaccines to protect against attacks from chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons. Any media wishing to cover Burr's speech MUST contact Gary Rector, Deputy Director of the North Carolina Justice Academy, at (828) 685-3600 prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews.
08.22.2005	08.22.05 Burr Announces August Recess Visits in North Carolina Senator Richard Burr today announced his plans to visit Bladen, Brunswick, Columbus, Durham, Granville, Harnett, Johnston, Lee, Montgomery, Moore, Stanly and Wake Counties. The visits will provide Burr the opportunity to meet with North Carolinians at community colleges, businesses, civic groups and health care facilities. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Tuesday, August 23, 2005 8:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to Moore County Chamber of Commerce 10677 Highway 15-501 Southern Pines, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Lee County Primary Clinic 106 Hillcrest Drive Sanford, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to the Sanford Rotary Club The Flame Restaurant 109 Carbonton Road Sanford, North Carolina 2:00 PM Senator Burr to tour Godwin Manufacturing 6669 Highway 421 Dunn, North Carolina Wednesday, August 24, 2005 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Bladen County Hospital 501 South Poplar Street Elizabethtown, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit the Boys and Girls Home of North Carolina 400 Flemington Drive Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Brunswick Community College 50 College Road Supply, North Carolina Thursday, August 25, 2005 9:30 AM Senator Burr to speak to the Price of Freedom Conference Sheraton Imperial Hotel 4700 Emperor Boulevard Durham, North Carolina 10:30 AM Senator Burr to open the new 2-1-1 Call Center American Social Health Association 4307 Emperor Boulevard Durham, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to speak to the Tobacco Growers Lunch Santa Fe Tobacco 3220 Knotts Grove Road Oxford, North Carolina 2:30 PM Senator Burr to attend open house at Salix Pharmaceuticals 1700 Perimeter Park Drive Morrisville, North Carolina 4:30 PM Senator Burr to attend ribbon cutting ceremony for Johnston County Workforce Development Center 135 Bestwood Drive Clayton, North Carolina Friday, August 26, 2005 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Montgomery County Community College 1011 Page Street Troy, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Stanly Airport ribbon cutting ceremony 40659 Airport Road New London, North Carolina
08.11.2005	08.11.05 Burr Announces $117,000 Loan for Gibsonville firefighters Funds to purchase new fire truck Senator Richard Burr today announced a $117,000 United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan for Gibsonville's Fire District No. 28. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Community Facility Direct Loan Program, will be used to purchase a new fire engine and improve firefighter response time. "Emergency responders keep our communities safe," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help make Alamance and Guilford Counties safer by providing for new equipment." Fire District No. 28 will use these funds to purchase a 2005 International Fire Engine. The new fire engine will allow firefighters to respond faster to emergencies. Community Facility Direct Loans cover improvement costs of community facilities in rural areas.
08.10.2005	08.10.05 Burr Announces $700,000 Loan for Wilson County Funds to improve water system Senator Richard Burr today announced a $700,000 United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan for the Town of Black Creek in Wilson County. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Water and Waste Disposal Direct Loan Program, will be used to improve the efficiency and safety of the county's water distribution system. "North Carolinians living in rural areas must have reliable access to clean water," said Senator Burr. "These funds will enhance the quality of life for those in Black Creek." Wilson County officials will use these funds to improve water pressure for 623 Wilson County residents by installing a new well-pumping water unit, chemical feed system and raw water main piping. Asbestos concrete water lines will also be removed. Rural Development grants provide assistance for rural communities with water, wastewater and solid waste system needs.
08.09.2005	08.09.05 Burr Wilmington Office Open for Business Senator Richard Burr today announced that his Wilmington office is open for business. Contact information for the Wilmington office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr 201 North Front Street Suite 809 Wilmington, North Carolina 28401 Phone: (910) 251-1058 Fax: (910) 251-7975 The office will be open Monday through Friday from 8:30 AM to 5:30 PM. It will serve as a resource for constituents in Eastern North Carolina. Senator Burr's Wilmington staff will be available to assist constituents with their federal government issues including military and veterans' affairs, Social Security and Medicare needs and immigration matters. "With an office in Wilmington, constituents throughout the area will have access to my staff and essential government services," Senator Burr said. In addition, Senator Burr has four other offices open. Those offices can be reached at: Washington, DC 217 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Phone: (202) 224-3154 Fax: (202) 228-2981 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104 Phone: (800) 685-8916 Add. Phone: (336) 631-5125 Fax: (336) 725-4493 Asheville, North Carolina Federal Building 151 Patton Avenue, Suite 204 Asheville, North Carolina 28801 Phone: (828) 350-2437 Fax: (828) 350-2439 Gastonia, North Carolina City Hall 181 South Street, Room 222 Gastonia, North Carolina 28052 Phone: (704) 833-0854 Fax: (704) 833-1467 Rocky Mount, North Carolina 100 Coast Line Street, Room 210 Rocky Mount, North Carolina 27804 Phone: (252) 977-9522 Fax: (252) 977-7502
08.09.2005	08.09.05 Burr Announces $4.5 Million Loan for Mitchell County Funds to build a new sheriff’s office and detention center Senator Richard Burr today announced a $4,529,000 United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan for Mitchell County. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Community Facility Direct Loan Program, will cover the construction costs of a new sheriff's office and 36 bed detention facility. "By constructing a new sheriff's office and detention center, these funds will help protect the citizens in Mitchell County," said Senator Burr. Community Facility Direct Loans cover construction and improvement costs of community facilities in rural areas. Mitchell County officials will use these funds to build a new sheriff's office and detention center located in close proximity to the courthouse located Bakersville, improving the efficiency of both. The loan was approved over 40 years at a rate of 4.125 percent.
08.09.2005	08.09.05 Burr Announces August Recess Visits in North Carolina Senator Richard Burr today announced his plans to visit Carrboro, Greensboro and Winston-Salem this week. Senator Burr will attend a National Health Care Week celebration at Carrboro Community Health Center, tour Syngenta Crop Protection, Inc., and present a constituent with a Congressional Award Bronze Medal. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Wednesday, August 10, 2005 10:30 AM Senator Burr to celebrate National Health Center Week Carrboro Community Health Center 301 Lloyd Street Carrboro, North Carolina 2:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Syngenta Crop Protection 410 South Swing Road Greensboro, North Carolina Thursday, August 11, 2005 9:30 AM Senator Burr to present Bronze Congressional Award to Pinnacle student Tiffany Key The Office of Senator Richard Burr 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina
08.08.2005	08.08.05 Burr Announces $580,000 Loan for Rowan County Funds to build new fire station Senator Richard Burr today announced a $580,000 United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan for the Town of Landis in Rowan County. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Community Facility Direct Loan Program, will be used to cover the construction costs of a new fire station. "Firefighters work tirelessly to keep our communities safe," said Senator Burr. "These funds will ensure that Rowan County firefighters are better equipped to quickly respond to emergencies." Landis officials will use funds to demolish an existing fire station, in disrepair, and build a new fire station with three garage bays, handicapped accessible restrooms, an administrative office, a break room and an emergency generator. The new fire station will allow firefighters to train for emergencies and respond when needed. Community Facility Direct Loans cover construction and improvement costs of community facilities in rural areas. The loan was approved over 40 years at a rate of 4.125 percent.
08.05.2005	08.05.05 Burr Announces $1.65 Million Loan for Rowan County Funds to improve water distribution efficiency Senator Richard Burr today announced a $1,651,000 loan and an additional $105,000 grant from United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development for the Town of East Spencer in Rowan County. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program, will be used to cover the cost of upgrading East Spencer's water distribution system. "Affordable and efficient water distribution are critical to keeping our citizens healthy and safe," said Senator Burr. "This money will help East Spencer expand access to drinking water." East Spencer officials will use funds to increase water distribution efficiency by insuring that all customers are metered, which will reduce operating expenses and extend affordable access to water to 556 residential customers. Rural Development grants provide assistance for rural communities with water, wastewater, and solid waste system needs. The loan was approved over 40 years at a rate of 4.125 percent.
08.02.2005	08.02.05 Burr Announces $1 Million Loan for Cherokee County Funds to build wellness center Senator Richard Burr today announced a $1 million United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan for Cherokee County. The funds, made available by Rural Development's Community Facility Direct Loan Program, will cover the construction costs of a wellness center. "We must encourage every North Carolinian to stay active and fit to fight obesity and cardiovascular diseases," said Senator Burr. "The wellness and prevention programs these funds bring to Cherokee County are key to the long-term health of individuals and the surrounding communities, allowing us to address healthcare problems before they become healthcare crises." Cherokee County officials will build a wellness center complete with health education classrooms, a fitness center, cardiovascular and exercise equipment, an aerobics area, a nursery and an indoor swimming pool. Plans to build the facility were drawn up after a recent health assessment found the range of chronic health problems from which Cherokee County citizens suffered to be significantly above State and National averages. Community Facility Direct Loans cover construction and improvement costs of public health facilities in rural areas. The loan was approved over 40 years at a rate of 4.125 percent.
08.01.2005	08.01.05 Burr Announces $8.3 Million in Grants for Charlotte Funds to expand housing and homeownership opportunities Senator Richard Burr today announced $8,329,494 in United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grants for the City of Charlotte. The funds will expand affordable housing and emergency shelter to the homeless and sick and extend homeownership opportunities to low-income and minority households. "Every North Carolinian deserves the opportunity to call a place home," said Senator Burr. "These funds will assist thousands of people in Charlotte in finding affordable housing." HUD awarded Charlotte the following grants to expand affordable housing and adequate shelter: • A $5,299,260 Community Development Block Grant to develop a prosperous and safe urban community by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income persons. • A $2,734,371 HOME Grant to fund local housing needs, making available more affordable housing for low and very low-income families. • A $204,783 Emergency Shelter Grant to build new and improve existing homeless shelters. • A $565,000 Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Grant to assist State and local governments and non-profit organizations provide housing assistance and support services to low-income persons suffering from HIV/AIDS. HUD also awarded Charlotte a $126,080 American Dream Down Payment Initiative Grant to promote homeownership through down payment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households.
08.01.2005	08.01.05 Burr Announces $400,000 Loan for Moore County Funds to construct permanent school facility Senator Richard Burr today announced United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development division approval of a $400,000 Community Facility Direct Loan for Neighborhood Youth Leadership in Moore County. The funds will cover the construction costs of a permanent school facility, providing a "School of Choice" for rural families living in five surrounding counties. "All North Carolina students, whether they live in an urban, suburban or rural area, should be able to learn in the best environment possible," said Senator Burr. "These funds will offer rural students in Moore County and surrounding areas access to the quality educational facilities they deserve." Neighborhood Youth Leadership's loan will fund the construction of a 20,500 square foot permanent school facility with approximately 19 classrooms, a dance studio, an auditorium and an administrative area. This new facility will allow the school to expand enrollment to 300 students from kindergarten through the eighth grade. Community Facility Direct Loans cover construction and improvement costs of community facilities in rural areas. The loan was approved over 30 years at a rate of 4.125 percent.
08.01.2005	08.01.05 Burr Announces $800,000 Loan for Surry County Funds to construct new fire station Senator Richard Burr today announced an $800,000 United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan for the Four-Way Volunteer Fire Department in Surry County. The loan, approved through Rural Development's Community Facility Direct Loan program, will cover the construction costs of a new 9,500 square foot fire station. "We depend on our firefighters and emergency responders to keep our communities safe," said Senator Burr. "These funds will ensure that Surry County firefighters are well-equipped to quickly respond to emergencies." Surry County firefighters will benefit from the use of five drive-through bays, a meeting and training area, a kitchen and handicap accessible bathrooms at the new fire station. The new station will improve the efficiency of the department allowing for faster response times. Community Facility Direct Loans cover construction and improvement costs of community facilities in rural areas. The loan was approved over 40 years at a rate of 4.125 percent.
07.29.2005	07.29.05 Burr: Over $74 Million in Transportation Funds for North Carolina Included in Highway Funding Bill North Carolina’s rate of return to increase Senator Richard Burr today announced that over $74 million for North Carolina-designated transportation projects have been included in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). The Senate is scheduled to consider the legislation later today. "These transportation projects are vital to our state's infrastructure and good examples of the federal, state and local government working in partnership," said Senator Burr. "These projects will benefit those who use our roads and highways throughout the state and encourage economic expansion and job growth. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to vote for the bill." In addition, North Carolina's rate of return for federal highway funding, under the legislation, will increase from 90.5 percent to 92 percent by 2008, meaning North Carolina will see a return of 92 cents for every dollar paid into the Highway Trust Fund. This will mean over $1 billion annually for improvements for North Carolina's federal-aid highways. "The increase in North Carolina's rate of return to 92 percent is an improvement over the last highway bill. Millions of dollars North Carolinians pay into the federal trust fund every year will now stay in our State," Senator Burr added. North Carolina projects in the legislation include: Statewide: $10 million for the construction of Interstates 73 and 74. Statewide: $2.5 million for improvements and construction on Interstate 95. Asheville: $700,000 for road relocation to revitalize Pack Square. Cary: $400,000 to develop a greenway system. Charlotte: $16.5 million for the CLT Airport Freight Intermodal Distribution Project. Charlotte: $725,000 for a community recreation partnership between the City of Charlotte and Queens University for the development of sixty-five acres at the Marion Diehl Center. Concord: $3.35 million to widen current two-lane Derita Road to a multi-lane facility. Durham: $2 million to combine a near-term bike/walking path with a long-term plan for a transit corridor. Fayetteville/Cumberland County: $3.8 million for the transfer of the Williams Street railroad switching operation to the Milan Yard switching operation site. Greenville: $2.5 million for planning, right-of-way acquisition, design and construction of the Tenth Street Corridor. Henderson: $192,000 to widen a portion of Beckford Drive to include a new turn lane, new curb and gutter and road resurfacing. High Point: $6 million for the construction of an eight mile segment of Interstate 74. High Point: $900,000 for the Airport Area Roadway Network Project. Lenoir/Caldwell County: $2 million to widen US 321 Bridge over the Catawba River from 4 to 6 lanes. McDowell and Mitchell Counties: $700,000 to study feasibly of widening US 221-NC 226 from Woodlawn to Spruce Pine, start planning and design, and make upgrades to improve safety. Monroe: $8 million for right-of-way acquisition and construction of a 13.6 mile, four lane bypass of US Highway 74. Monroe: $1 million for right-of-way acquisition for the 3.5 mile Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard Arterial Extension Project. Outer Banks: $2 million to study the feasibility of constructing a mid-Currituck sound bridge to relieve traffic congestion on the Outer Banks. Wilson: $4.933 million for right-of-way acquisition and construction of the Northern Loop Project that will begin at NC 58 and follow east to US 301. Winston-Salem/Forsyth County: $4.5 million for improvements to Piedmont Triad Research Park. Winston-Salem/Forsyth County: $1.3 million for the construction of 1-74 from US 52 to Bus. I-40 to US 311.
07.29.2005	07.29.05 Burr Supports Senate Passage of Bipartisan, Comprehensive Energy Conference Report Legislation improves reliability, conserves energy, keeps coastal drilling moratorium intact Senator Richard Burr today voted in support of H.R. 6, the bipartisan, comprehensive energy conference report which conserves energy usage, improves reliability and keeps the current Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Presidential moratorium on drilling intact. The legislation was approved by a bipartisan margin of 74-26. "This legislation represents a comprehensive, balanced plan to reduce our dependency on foreign sources of oil while increasing our commitment to renewable energy and conservation efforts," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina will benefit from provisions to modernize our electricity grid and create jobs while ensuring a more stable and environment friendly energy supply." "While I am pleased the Presidential moratorium on drilling off North Carolina's coasts will remain intact," he added, "I know we need to remain vigilant on this important issue." Senator Burr, a member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, championed many of the provisions in the legislation important to North Carolina. These provisions include: • The Presidential moratorium on drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf remains intact. • Keeping North Carolina's electric rates low, while protecting ratepayers throughout the nation, the bill includes provisions to modernize and expand America's electricity grid. (The language was adopted from bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator Burr on March 2, 2005, his first piece of legislation as a Senator.) • Opening new opportunities for energy production using innovative and useful methods of waste disposal, the bill includes incentives for energy generated from animal waste. This will increase farm income for North Carolina hog and poultry farmers. • Corn, sweet potato and tobacco farmers will benefit from the ethanol provisions in this bill through increased incentives for ethanol and biodiesel production. This will help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil and improve our environment while helping North Carolina farmers. Soybean farmers will benefit from incentives encouraging the production of biodiesel fuels from soybean oil. According to the National Farm Bureau, this will create 234,840 new jobs nationwide. • Long-term access to electric transmission for over seventy-two small cities and towns in North Carolina which provide electricity to their residents. As a Member of the House of Representatives, Burr sponsored two pieces of legislation strengthening electric transmission. H.R. 2814, introduced in the 107th Congress, sought to increased incentives for investing in the energy transmission grid. H.R. 1370, introduced in the 108th Congress, also sought to increase incentives for investing in the electric transmission grid, as well as energy reliability standards. Both pieces of legislation became part of larger, comprehensive energy legislation that was passed by the House. As a Senator, Burr built on the success of these bills and introduced the bipartisan Interstate Transmission Act of 2005, portions of which were incorporated in the legislation approved today. Praising Senator Burr's efforts on the energy conference report, Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R-NM) said, "Senator Burr's contribution to the passage of this energy bill has been remarkable. Without him, we may not have gotten agreements on several important electricity provisions. I consider electricity to be cornerstone of this bill. Richard Burr helped ensure that the changes we are making to electricity law will protect consumers and ensure an abundant supply of reliable and affordable power. I thank him for his efforts." For more information, please go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
07.28.2005	07.28.05 Burr Announces $55.5 Million Loan for Northwestern North Carolina Funds to expand rural access to electricity Senator Richard Burr today announced a $55.5 Million United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Electric Loan for northwestern North Carolina's Blue Ridge Electric Membership Corporation. The funds will expand rural access to reliable and affordable electricity to 4,299 new consumers in Alexander, Alleghany, Ashe, Watauga, Wilkes, Avery and Caldwell counties. "Reliable and affordable electricity helps maintain a high quality of life in rural North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will assist northwestern North Carolina in improving delivery of affordable energy." USDA Rural Development's Electric Loan program provides leadership and capital to upgrade and expand rural electric infrastructure. Blue Ridge Electric Membership Corporation will use this loan to build 250 miles of new distribution line, one mile of new transmission line and make other improvements to its system. The loan was approved for 35 years at the U.S. Treasury rate.
07.26.2005	07.26.05 Burr Announces $10 Million Loan for Camden County Schools Federal loan for intermediate school construction Senator Richard Burr today announced a $10 million United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Community Facility Direct Loan for Camden County. The funds will cover construction costs of an intermediate school able to accommodate 420 students in third, fourth and fifth grades. "North Carolina students, whether they live in an urban, suburban or rural area, should attend school in a good environment," said Senator Burr. "These funds will offer Camden County students the opportunity to learn in state-of-the-art educational facilities." Community Facility Direct Loans assist in the development of essential community facilities in rural areas. The 53,000 square foot intermediate school in Camden County will have 21 regular classrooms, 27 teaching spaces, administrative offices, a cafeteria, art and computer labs and a teacher workroom.
07.21.2005	07.21.05 Burr Holds Roundtable on Public Health Response to Bioterrorism Senators Hatch, Lieberman and Schumer participate WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, today held a second formal roundtable to investigate the measures necessary to respond to a bioterrorism outbreak. The roundtable, entitled "Preparing a National Biodefense: S.975," explored existing legislation in an effort to build bipartisan comprehensive bioterrorism legislation. "As the Senate moves to improve Bioshield, we must work to build a consensus on how to develop the necessary countermeasures to meet future biodefense needs," said Senator Burr. "I look forward to continuing to work with Senators Hatch, Lieberman and Schumer, as well as Majority Leader Frist and Chairman Enzi, to build bipartisan bioterrorism legislation in the coming weeks." Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) and Charles Schumer (D-NY) participated in the roundtable to offer their perspective on current Bioshield laws and proposed bioterrorism legislation.
07.19.2005	07.19.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on President Bush’s Nomination of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr., for the Supreme Court: "I welcome President Bush's nomination of Judge John Roberts for the Supreme Court. As his nomination moves forward, I remain hopeful that Judge Roberts will be treated with dignity and fairness, in the best of Senate traditions. I look forward to Judge Roberts' confirmation hearing and his nomination receiving an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor."
07.18.2005	07.18.05 Burr Announces $6.8 Million Loan for Halifax Funds to expand access to clean water Senator Richard Burr today announced a $6,800,000 Water and Waste Disposal Direct Loan from the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development division for Halifax County. The funds will cover continued construction costs of a countywide water system. "Clean drinking water and proper waste disposal are essential for rural North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "These funds will help Halifax County expand access to clean water." USDA Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal loans improve the quality of life and promote economic development in rural areas. Halifax County will extend access to clean water to 270 new households and one school with this loan. The county will build nearly 50 miles of new water mains and a one million gallon ground storage water tank. The improved countywide water system will serve almost 7,000 households.
07.15.2005	07.15.05 Senator Burr Announces $1.5 Million in Home Ownership Grants for Rocky Mount Funds to expand affordable housing opportunities Senator Richard Burr today announced two United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grants worth a total of $1,553,470 for Rocky Mount. These funds will promote home ownership among low-income and minority households. "These funds will help make owning a home a reality for more North Carolinians," said Senator Burr. Rocky Mount will receive a Community Development Block Grant of $760,442 to expand home ownership in urban communities by broadening economic opportunities for low-income persons. HUD will also provide Rocky Mount assistance through a grant of $793,028 to help expand the availability of affordable housing to low and very low-income families by funding State and local housing initiatives.
07.15.2005	07.15.05 Senator Richard Burr Announces $1.3 Million in Grants for High Point Funds to expand affordable housing opportunities Senator Richard Burr today announced two United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grants worth a total of $1,363,623 for High Point. These funds will promote home ownership among low-income and minority households. "These funds will help make owning a home a reality for more North Carolinians," said Senator Burr. High Point will receive a Community Development Block Grant of $879,430 to expand home ownership in urban communities by broadening economic opportunities for low-income persons. HUD will also provide High Point assistance through a grant of $484,193 to help expand the availability of affordable housing to low and very low-income families by funding State and local housing initiatives.
07.15.2005	07.15.05 Senator Burr Announces $1.5 Million in Home Ownership Grants for Gastonia Funds to expand affordable housing opportunities Senator Richard Burr today announced three United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grants worth a total of $1,533,453 for Gastonia. These funds will promote home ownership among low-income and minority households. "These funds will help make owning a home a reality for more North Carolinians," said Senator Burr. Gastonia will receive a Community Development Block Grant of $729,606 to expand home ownership in urban communities by broadening economic opportunities for low-income persons. HUD will also provide Gastonia assistance through a grant of $771,470, to help expand the availability of affordable housing to low and very low-income families by funding State and local housing initiatives. Gastonia will also receive a $32,377 American Dream Down Payment Initiative grant which will promote homeownership by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households.
07.13.2005	07.13.05 Burr to Hold Roundtable on Public Health Response to Bioterrorism North Carolina Health Director among experts to participate WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, will hold a formal roundtable to investigate the measures necessary to respond to a bioterrorism outbreak. The roundtable, entitled "When Terror Strikes - Preparing an Effective and Immediate Public Health Response," will be held on Thursday, July 14 at 10:00 AM in 430 Dirksen Senate Office Building. The roundtable will focus on three areas critical to bioterrorism preparedness: the additional provisions necessary to develop biodefense countermeasures, strengthening the public health infrastructure to meet the challenges of the 21st Century and protecting our Nation's agricultural resources and food supply. "As the Senate considers further bioterror legislation, we must provide the resources necessary to meet possible bioterrorism threats directly," said Senator Burr. "Clearly, there are many areas where we remain vulnerable. While we are making tremendous strides, more must be done to increase our countermeasures, improve our response capabilities and ensure our food supply is safe." Dr. Leah M. Devlin, State Health Director of the North Carolina Department of Health & Human Services, will participate in the roundtable. Dr. Devlin received her dental degree and Master's degree in public health administration at the University of North Carolina's Chapel Hill campus. Under her leadership, North Carolina's public health system was cited by the Trust for America's Health as one of the Nation's best in bioterrorism preparedness. In addition to Dr. Devlin, other participants will include Dr. Tara O'Toole, MD, MPH CEO and Director of the Center for Biosecurity of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center; Dr. Elin Gursky, MD, Msph, Principal Deputy for Biodefense, National Strategies Support Directorate; Dr. John M. Clerici, McKenna, Long and Aldridge; Mr. George Barrett, President and Chief Executive Officer, Teva North America; Mr. Chuck Ludlam, Esq, Former Legal Counsel to Senator Joseph Lieberman; David P. Wright, President and Chief Executive Officer, PharmAthene; Clay Elward, Benefit Plan Design Manager, Caterpillar Inc.; Brownen A. Kaye, Senior Director, Government Relations, Wyeth; George W. Conk, Adjunct Professor, Fordham Law School; Dr. David Franz, Director, National Agricultural Biosecurity Center; John Pournoor, 3M Corporation.
07.07.2005	07.07.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on the Terrorist Attacks in London "Our thoughts and prayers are with the British people. They are our friends and allies, and we will stand by them during this difficult time. The terrorist bombings in London this morning remind us of the very real threat we face. We must continue our efforts to prevent attacks and to ensure our communities are adequately prepared. These cowardly terrorists will not discourage those around the world who are working to spread freedom and democracy. We will not yield to them, and we will continue to fight the terrorist threat wherever it emerges."
07.01.2005	07.01.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on the Retirement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor "Justice O'Connor had a distinguished tenure in the Supreme Court, and I join all Americans in thanking her for her dedicated service to our Nation. Justice O'Connor has been a fair and thoughtful jurist and sought practical solutions for difficult decisions before the Court. I wish her well. As we prepare for President Bush's nomination to fill this vacancy on the Supreme Court, I am hopeful that the confirmation process is thorough, fair and efficient, according to the best traditions of the Senate."
06.30.2005	06.30.05 Burr Votes in Support of CAFTA Cites new side agreements good for textile and benefits for agriculture; calls for increased enforcement of trade agreements Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today voted in favor of the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which passed the Senate by a vote of 54-45. "I believe CAFTA, with the new side agreements, will provide opportunities for economic growth in North Carolina. I am pleased that the side agreements addressed my initial concerns about CAFTA's textile provisions because without these assurances, I could not have supported CAFTA," Burr said after the vote. Burr outlined his support for CAFTA in remarks on the floor of the United States Senate on Thursday. In his remarks, Burr applauded efforts by the textile industry and the Administration to negotiate side agreements concerning: • Pockets and linings - The U.S. Trade Representative will utilize the CAFTA amendment process to help ensure that $100 million in U.S. pocketing and lining exports to the region are not lost. • Cumulation - The Bush Administration has reaffirmed its commitment to negotiate an aggressive customs enforcement agreement with Mexico before the cumulation provisions of CAFTA can be used. • Trade Preference Levels - Nicaragua has committed to allocate its trade preference levels (TPLs) to its current non-qualifying US trade, ensuring that existing US business is not impacted by this provision. Burr also called for vigorous enforcement of trade agreements. "The key to making this trade agreement an economic success for North Carolina, though, is enforcement," Burr said on the floor. "I am a proponent of free trade, but I am an even bigger proponent of fair trade. The rules must be enforced. I intend to make sure that neither this nation nor our partner countries turn a blind-eye to the provisions set out and the assurances made in CAFTA." The House of Representatives has yet to vote on the agreement. Additional Excerpts from Senator Burr's speech: "CAFTA will provide garment makers in the region with a critical advantage in competing with Asia, particularly Chinese, garment manufacturers. This is crucial for one very important reason: those regional garment makers buy their yarn, their fabric, from American companies. Many of these companies are based in North Carolina. Those American companies buy their cotton from American farmers." "Without CAFTA, more and more garment manufacturing will simply find its way to China to be manufactured. As Central American manufacturers are forced out by Chinese manufacturers, more American jobs will be put at risk - for the simple fact that Chinese manufacturers do not use American yarn, they do not use American fabric, and they do not use American cotton." "Current agricultural trade between the United States and the region can be a one-way street. That street is often closed to our farmers by regional barriers. CAFTA will remove those barriers, increasing access for U.S. farmers. With exports accounting for 20% of North Carolina's farm cash receipts almost $1.5 billion, my State's farmers stand to make tremendous gains in Central American markets."
06.29.2005	06.29.05 Burr Co-Sponsors Bipartisan Cord Blood Stem Cell Bill Approved by Senate Committee The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee today approved bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Senator Richard Burr to establish a public network of human umbilical cord blood stem cell banks that would store cord blood units for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia, sickle cell anemia and AIDS, and to reauthorize the National Marrow Donor Program. In addition to Burr, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act is co-sponsored by Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Jack Reed (D-RI) and John Ensign (R-NV). "This important legislation will give us new tools to treat and prevent a wide range of diseases, especially those that affect children," said Burr. "I'm proud that many of the developments in cord blood transplants have taken place in North Carolina. The work done at Duke University Medical Center will benefit patients throughout the state and the nation." The legislation calls for the collection and maintenance of 150,000 units of cord blood, mandates a single electronic database matching cord blood units and bone marrow donors, encourages cord blood donations from a genetically diverse group and ensures cord blood units will be made available for research. As part of the legislation, qualified cord blood banks have the option of providing free collection and storage of cord blood units for families with an ill child or parent who could be treated with a cord blood transplant. Valuable research on cord blood is being done in North Carolina. Dr. Joanne Kurtzberg of Duke University, the Director of the Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, and the Carolinas Blood Bank are leading the fight on diseases such as diabetes and Alzheimer's. Dr. Kurtzberg and her team are pioneers in the field, having already performed more than 600 cord blood transplants with unrelated donors - more than anyone else in the world. In addition, the first recipient of a cord blood transplant is from North Carolina.
06.28.2005	06.28.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on President Bush’s Remarks to Airborne and Special Operations Forces at Fort Bragg "I applaud President Bush for coming to Fort Bragg to speak to our men and women in uniform. I think it was important for the President to remind us of the challenges ahead and to reiterate the importance of our work in Iraq. We owe it to the people of Iraq, and to those who have bravely given their lives in this war, to keep our word by helping the Iraqis prepare to defend their freedoms. The next generation cannot afford for us to waver in our resolve to finish this important job."
06.28.2005	06.28.05 Burr Supports Senate Passage of Bipartisan, Comprehensive Energy Bill Legislation includes provisions authored by Burr Senator Richard Burr today voted in support of bipartisan, comprehensive energy legislation that conserves energy usage while reducing our dependence on foreign sources of oil. The legislation, approved by the Senate by a vote of 85-12, will now go to a House and Senate Conference to reconcile differences between the two Chambers' bills. Senator Burr, a member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, supported many provisions in the legislation important to North Carolina. These provisions included: • Language to keep North Carolina's electric rates low, while protecting rate payers throughout the nation, by encouraging the modernization and expansion of America's electricity grid. (The language was adopted from legislation introduced by Senator Burr on March 2, 2005, his first piece of legislation introduced as a Senator.) • A production tax credit for energy generated from animal waste. This would open new opportunities for energy production, innovative and useful methods of waste disposal and increased farm income for North Carolina hog and poultry farmers. • Increased incentives for ethanol and biodiesel production. This would help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil and improve our environment while helping North Carolina agriculture. Soybean farmers would benefit from tax credits that encourage the production of biodiesel fuels from soybean oil. Corn, sweet potato and tobacco farmers would benefit from the ethanol provisions in this bill. "This legislation moves us away from our dependence on foreign sources of oil and into the positive direction of promoting a diverse mix of domestic sources of energy," Senator Burr said. "By approving a comprehensive energy bill, we protect our environment, promote job growth and strengthen our economic security, all at the same time." During the debate on the energy bill, Senator Burr continued to oppose provisions that could possibly affect North Carolina's moratorium on offshore drilling. "North Carolina has a history of protecting our coasts," added Senator Burr, a long-time opponent of lifting North Carolina's moratorium. "I will continue my efforts to honor the moratorium." "Senator Richard Burr made strong contributions to this energy bill," said Senate Energy and Natural Resources Chairman Pete Domenici. "I have been delighted by the expertise and insight he brings to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. He has been very active in deliberating every title of this bill. His contribution to modernizing our electricity grid is particularly significant. I am pleased to serve with him." For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
06.27.2005	06.27.05 Burr Announces $3.5 Million Grant for Disaster Recovery in Western North Carolina Federal funds will provide for humanitarian assistance and cleanup WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $3,500,000 United States Department of Labor National Emergency Grant to provide continued assistance to sixteen North Carolina counties affected by hurricanes and tropical storms during 2004. The funds will be made available though the North Carolina Department of Commerce. "Hurricanes and a tropical storm caused widespread damage in Western North Carolina last year," said Senator Burr. "These funds will provide state and local officials with the means to continue to rebuild their communities while providing employment opportunities." The National Emergency Grant will sustain approximately 650 temporary jobs that bring disaster victims food, clothing, shelter and other humanitarian assistance to Avery, Buncombe, Burke, Caldwell, Haywood, Henderson, Jackson, Macon, Madison, McDowell, Mitchell, Polk, Rutherford, Transylvania, Watauga and Yancey Counties. These temporary jobs also provide for the cleanup of areas damaged by hurricanes and tropical storms, including demolition, renovation and reconstruction of destroyed public structures. Labor Secretary Elaine Chao pledged up to $10,000,000 for cleanup and restoration efforts in North Carolina when she visited Asheville last year in the wake of Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Ivan, as well as Tropical Storm Bonnie. An initial $3,500,000 grant was provided last year.
06.27.2005	06.27.05 Burr Announces $3.7 Million Grant for Cumberland County Funds will aid military spouses and civilian personnel WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $3,721,031 United States Department of Labor National Emergency Grant to aid 950 military spouses and civilian personnel at Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base. The funds will be made available through the Cumberland County Workforce Development Board in Fayetteville. "These funds will assist displaced workers from Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base with job training and placement that utilizes their individual skills and meets the needs of local businesses," said Senator Burr. The grant will benefit those who lost their job when a military spouse received a permanent change of station, or the United States Department of Defense outsourced civilian jobs at military installations. The Cumberland County Workforce Development will use the federal funding to help personnel develop an individual employment plan and provide customized training, classroom training, on-the-job training, job placement and support services. An initial grant of $2,280,828 was awarded to Cumberland County in December 2003.
06.27.2005	06.27.05 Burr Announces $3.6 Million Grant for Displaced Pillowtex Employees Federal funds will assist workers in job development and job placement WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $3,611,688 United States Department of Labor (DOL) National Emergency Grant to provide continued employment-related transition assistance for the more than 4,000 individuals affected by plant and business closings in Cabarrus, Rockingham and Rowan Counties. The funds will be made available though the North Carolina Department of Commerce. "We must do all we can to help sustain our workers in Cabarrus, Rockingham and Rowan Counties during this difficult period," said Senator Burr. "This grant will enable our workers to retrain for new jobs while paying for necessities such as transportation and childcare." Thousands of individuals in Cabarrus, Rockingham and Rowan Counties were affected by the closings of local Pillowtex facilities. North Carolina received a pledge of up to $13,046,132 from DOL's National Emergency Grants program in August 2003, following the Pillowtex announcement. DOL awarded the State $6,434,444 initially and $3,000,000 in April 2005 as more Cabarrus County workers were dislocated from Kannapolis Energy Partners, Flour Industrial Services and Broadway & Son Electric, all located in Kannapolis. DOL's National Emergency Grants provide employment transition-related assistance to dislocated workers. With this federal grant, the North Carolina Department of Commerce will be able to fund institutional learning, basic remedial education, on-the-job training, job development and placement, job search and relocation, and other support services to workers in Cabarrus, Rockingham and Rowan Counties.
06.22.2005	06.22.05 Burr Announces $1.9 Million for Dare County Disaster Cleanup WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced that Dare County will receive $1.9 million in additional funding. The federal funds, to come from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), will be used for debris removal expenses incurred as a result of Hurricane Isabel. "I am pleased that Dare County will receive this critical assistance," said Senator Burr. "Hurricane Isabel created widespread damage in the area, and this funding will assist the County in recovering from damage caused by the hurricane." Hurricane Isabel destroyed homes and damaged trees when it struck in September 2003. County roads and public rights-of-way became impassable due to debris scattered throughout Dare County. This additional funding will cover the final costs associated with debris removal operations. Dare County has already received a total of $885,021 in debris removal since Hurricane Isabel struck. FEMA's Public Assistance program made this federal funding available to Dare County. Under the program, FEMA provides 75 percent of the total cost, and the State covers the remaining costs.
06.22.2005	06.22.05 Burr Presents Congressional Award Gold Medal to Elster Triplets from Winston-Salem Senator Richard Burr presented the Congressional Award Gold Medal to Elizabeth, Martha and Patricia Elster of Winston-Salem at an awards ceremony today in Washington, D.C. The award was presented in recognition of the 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of personal development and 200 hours of physical fitness activity performed by each of the three sisters. The sisters performed community activities including volunteering for Brenner Children's Hospital, Ronald McDonald House, the Special Olympics, as well as tutoring local elementary students. This is not the first time the Elsters have been recognized for their service. Last year, Burr presented the triplets with the Congressional Bronze and Silver Awards. "The Elster sisters represent the true spirit of public service," said Burr. "The Congressional Award Gold Medal demonstrates their commitment to our community. I'm proud to honor them a second time for their work with young people." The Congressional Award Gold Medal is the highest honor bestowed upon young people by the U.S. Congress. The program, established in 1979, provides an opportunity for young people, ages 14-23, to set and achieve personally challenging goals that build character and foster community service, personal development, and citizenship.
06.21.2005	06.21.05 Senator Burr Continues Work to Protect North Carolina’s Offshore Drilling Moratorium Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today voted for an amendment which would have removed a provision from the energy bill allowing an inventory of oil and natural gas reserves off the coast of North Carolina. Burr co-sponsored the amendment. As a member of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, Burr voted last month against allowing the inventory. "North Carolina's coasts are precious resources in our environment and for our state's economy that must be protected," said Burr, a long-time opponent of lifting North Carolina's moratorium. "North Carolina has a history of protecting our coasts and I will continue my efforts to honor the moratorium and care for North Carolina's coasts." As a Member of the House of Representatives, Burr voted to honor the moratorium off the state's coast five times and twice signed onto letters opposing efforts to lift the moratorium. Additionally, in February of this year, Senator Burr joined a bipartisan group of Senators in a letter in support of the moratorium. The debate was part of the Senate's consideration of bipartisan, comprehensive energy legislation that conserves energy usage, while reducing our dependence on foreign sources of oil.
06.17.2005	06.17.05 Freshman GOP Senators Issue Joint Statement Call on Senator Durbin to Apologize WASHINGTON, D.C. - Freshman Senators Richard Burr - NC, Tom Coburn - OK, Jim DeMint - SC, Johnny Isakson - GA, Mel Martinez - FL, John Thune - SD and David Vitter - LA today issued the following statement in response to comments made by Senator Dick Durbin - IL on the Floor of the United States Senate comparing U.S. troops to Nazis, Soviets and others: "As freshman Senators, we recently campaigned to change the tone in Washington and accomplish great things on behalf of the American people. We are united in our support for our troops in the ongoing War on Terror. We found Senator Durbin's remarks to be highly offensive and dangerous. This rhetoric is harmful to our soldiers and emboldens our enemies. We call on Senator Durbin to issue an apology to the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces. The American Armed Forces are the best in the world and to compare them with Nazis, Soviet Gulags, or Pol Pot is outrageous. Millions of innocent people were murdered in death camps under these evil regimes."
06.16.2005	06.16.05 Burr to Visit Manteo Will attend fish fry on Friday WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr will visit Manteo on Friday, June 17, 2005 to meet constituents at Pirate's Cove Marina. The fish fry will be held from 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM. Pirate's Cove Marina is located at 1 Sailfish Drive in Manteo. "I'm looking forward to visiting with people in Manteo and the surrounding communities of Dare County," said Senator Burr. The event is free and open to the public. Any media wishing to cover Senator Burr's visit must contact R.V. Owens at (252) 202-4963. Please contact Senator Burr's Washington office to schedule separate interviews.
06.16.2005	06.16.05 Burr Applauds Senate Judiciary Committee’s Approval of Judge Terrence Boyle Urges up-or-down vote on Senate floor Washington, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr applauded the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee today for approving the nomination of Judge Terrence W. Boyle for the Fourth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals. The nomination had been held up for many years. Judge Boyle was nominated for the post by President George W. Bush on May 9, 2001. President George H.W. Bush first nominated Judge Boyle for the post in 1991. "Judge Boyle has earned the respect of his peers thanks to his long and impressive record of public service," said Senator Burr. "I am pleased the Senate Judiciary Committee moved his nomination forward in the confirmation process. I urge my colleagues to give his nomination an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor so North Carolinians can have another voice on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals." In February, Burr signed the Senate "blue slip" necessary to advance Judge Boyle's nomination forward, and in March, he testified in support of Judge Boyle's nomination before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Burr, joined by six of his Senate Freshmen colleagues, also sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid seeking a bipartisan solution to repair the judicial confirmation process. For more information, please visit https://www.burr.senate.gov.
06.10.2005	06.10.05 Burr Announces Medical Research Grants for North Carolina Universities Duke, UNC – Chapel Hill, N.C. State and Wake Forest receive federal funds WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr today announced $2,146,357 in federal grants from the United States Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) for four of North Carolina's major research universities. The funding will assist research at Duke University, North Carolina State University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Wake Forest University. "North Carolina is proud that world-renowned research universities call our State home," said Senator Burr. "The medical research conducted at Duke, N.C. State, UNC-Chapel Hill and Wake Forest touches the lives of citizens everywhere - whether it be research to fight cancer, infectious diseases or bioterrorism." Duke University received two grants: • The Heart and Vascular Diseases Research Program at HHS' National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute awarded Duke $224,520 to study the possibility of lifespan extension of tissues. • The Clinical Research Related to Neurological Disorders program at HHS' National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke awarded Duke $15,000 for its 2005 Neural Tube Defects Conference. UNC - Chapel Hill received five grants: • HHS' National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences Program for the Biological Response to Environmental Health Hazards awarded UNC - Chapel Hill $277,400 to study influenza infectivity. • The Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Research Program at HHS' National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases awarded UNC - Chapel Hill $122,173 to study the effect of HIV. • The National Institute of Nursing Research Nursing Research Program at HHS awarded UNC - Chapel Hill $317,488 for integrating qualitative and quantitative research findings. • The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute at HHS awarded UNC - Chapel Hill $363,430 for allergic airway disease research. • HHS' National Cancer Institute program for Cancer Cause and Prevention Research awarded UNC - Chapel Hill $307,626 for cancer research. N.C. State University received one grant for $292,000 for microbiological and infectious disease research. Wake Forest received one grant for $226,730 for cancer treatment research. For more information, please visit http://burr.senate.gov.
06.09.2005	06.09.05 Senator Richard Burr Announces Plans to Draft Bioterrorism Preparedness Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr laid out his vision today on upcoming biodefense legislation and outlined plans to draft legislation to increase bioterrorism preparedness. Senator Burr, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, made his remarks at a Georgetown University conference entitled "Preparing for the Inevitable: Bioterrorism and Emerging Infectious Diseases." The conference, sponsored by Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute and School of Foreign Service, brought together bioterrorism experts from across the country to discuss the future of biodefense issues. Senator Burr was a keynote speaker to the conference. "I believe that we can, and must, draft a biodefense preparedness bill to address these preparedness issues and doing this is a top priority of my subcommittee this summer. I know working with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, we can make improvements that will benefit all Americans," Burr said. "The detection of disease outbreaks is only the beginning of what needs to be done. We need to prepare for a possible flu pandemic and we need to make more progress in our ability to mobilize a response to a smallpox attack," he added. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
06.07.2005	06.07.05 Burr to Hold Hearing on Bioterrorism Preparedness Duke University professor among expert witnesses to testify WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness, will hold a hearing to focus on the challenges small and medium-sized biotech companies face in developing biodefense countermeasures. The hearing, "Crossing the Valley of Death: Bringing Promising Medical Countermeasures to Bioshield," will be held Thursday, June 9, at 2:00 PM, in Room 430 Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, D.C. Small and medium-sized biotech companies are conducting novel and promising research for development of countermeasures used for biodefense against natural, accidental and deliberate biological agents. Thursday's hearing will examine current efforts to develop medical countermeasure and explore what additional measures might be needed to assist later stage development. "Strengthening our defenses against biological threats is critical to winning the war on terror and ensuring the public is safe from biological agents," said Senator Burr. "We must encourage the development of countermeasures against these threats and ensure the government's investment is getting more and better countermeasures ready faster." Duke University Associate Professor of Medicine Dr. Richard Frothingham is one of eight experts who will testify before the subcommittee. Dr. Frothingham conducts vaccine research and will provide first hand insight into biodefense work conducted at Duke where researchers are working on improved vaccines against plague and have recently published breakthrough work on an AIDS vaccine. Two panels of experts will testify at the hearing. The first panel includes Dr. John Vitko, Director of the Department of Homeland Security's Homeland Security Science and Technology Advisory Committee; Dr. Joe Palma, Medical Director for the Chemical/Biological Defense Programs in the Office of the Deputy Assistant to the Secretary of Defense; The Honorable Dr. William F. Raub, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Health Emergency Preparedness; and Dr. Carol Heilman, Director of Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease. The second panel features Alan P. Timmins, President of AVI BioPharma; Dr. Frothingham; Dr. Phillip Russess, U.S. Army Major General (Ret.); and David P. Wright, President and Chief Executive Officer of PharmAthene.
06.01.2005	06.01.05 Burr Announces Memorial Day Recess Visits in North Carolina Senator Richard Burr will visit Atlantic Beach, Goldsboro, High Point, Kinston, Morehead City, Research Triangle Park, Smithfield, Wilson and Winston-Salem during the Memorial Day Recess. Burr will visit health care centers, businesses and civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, May 30, 2005 3:00 PM Senator Burr to speak at the High Point Memorial Dedication Corner of High and Main Streets High Point, North Carolina Tuesday, May 31, 2005 8:00 AM Senator Burr to speak to the Morehead City Chamber of Commerce Breakfast Channel Marker Restaurant 718 Atlantic Beach Causeway Atlantic Beach, NC 9:30 AM Senator Burr to visit the Port of Morehead City 113 Arendell Street Morehead City, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to the Kinston Chamber of Commerce Vermillion 5 Star Foods 661 Sussex Drive Kinston, North Carolina Wednesday, June 1, 2005 8:00 AM Senator Burr to speak at the Wilson Chamber of Commerce and tour Firestone Incorporated Firestone Parkway Wilson, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Rebuilding Broken Places Community Development Center 2105 North Williams Street Goldsboro, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Reach Out & Read Carolina Adult & Pediatric Medicine 1600 Wayne Memorial Drive Suite C Goldsboro, North Carolina 3:30 PM Senator Burr to visit Johnston Memorial Hospital 509 North Bright Leaf Boulevard Smithfield, North Carolina Thursday, June 2, 2005 12:00 PM Senator Burr to speak to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Radisson Hotel, Governor's Inn 150 Park Drive Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 4:00 PM Senator Burr to present the Silver Star to Veteran Earl Martin Office of Senator Richard Burr 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina
05.26.2005	05.26.05 Burr Applauds Committee Approval of Bipartisan, Comprehensive Energy Bill Legislation includes provisions authored by Burr WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Richard Burr applauded the passage of bipartisan, comprehensive energy legislation that conserves energy usage, while reducing our dependence on foreign sources of oil, out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Senator Burr was joined by twenty of his colleagues in supporting passage of the legislation. The energy legislation includes provisions authored by Senator Burr and Senators Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Trent Lott (R-MS) to encourage modernization and expansion of America's electricity grid to ensure the reliable delivery of electricity to every home and business. The provisions will help keep North Carolina's electric rates low while protecting rate payers throughout the nation from unforeseen blackouts. The language was adopted from legislation introduced by Senator Burr on March 2, 2005, his first piece of legislation introduced as a Senator. "I'm proud the Energy and Natural Resources Committee worked in a bipartisan manner to swiftly approve comprehensive energy legislation," said Burr, a member of the committee and Vice-Chair of the Energy Subcommittee. "By diversifying our energy supply and producing cleaner and more efficient energy, this legislation conserves more energy and produces more energy than we have ever done before. The legislation also continues the balance between meeting our energy needs and conserving the environment by honoring the oil and gas drilling moratorium off the coast of North Carolina." The legislation will next be considered by the full Senate, where it is expected to be approved in the coming weeks. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
05.25.2005	05.25.05 Burr Launches Official Senate Website Interactive online office will offer constituent services Senator Richard Burr today launched his official United States Senate website. North Carolinians will be able to contact Senator Burr, read about his work in Washington and North Carolina, plan visits to Washington and utilize an interactive Constituent Services section on a website that is easy to navigate. The website may be found at https://www.burr.senate.gov. "Each visitor to my online office will find something useful," Senator Burr said. "The information and services offered on my website will connect North Carolinians to my work in Washington. Most importantly, all North Carolinians will be able to contact me through my website and express their thoughts and concerns about any issue." The web form will allow constituents to contact Senator Burr about any issue facing North Carolina or the Nation. Visitors to Senator Burr's website will be able to track all of the Senator's work in Washington and North Carolina, including speeches delivered on the Senate floor and legislation sponsored by Senator Burr. North Carolinians planning a trip to Washington, D.C., will be able to request information about tourist sites around Washington and schedule tours of the White House, U.S. Capitol and the many museums and monuments around our Nation's Capital. In addition, North Carolina constituents will be able to request American flags flown over the United States Capitol. North Carolina students will benefit from resources available on Senator Burr's website as well. The Students' Page features information on internships and military academy nominations, as well as a history of the U.S. Senate.
05.19.2005	05.19.05 Burr Continues Call for Up-or-Down Vote on Judicial Nominees Remains hopeful for bipartisan resolution in the Senate Senator Richard Burr today took to the floor of the United States Senate to urge his colleagues to allow all federal judicial nominations supported by a majority of Senators an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. "There is no doubt in my mind that I was sent here to do what the people of North Carolina heard me say that I would do, and that was to work hard and to accomplish solutions to real problems," Burr told his colleagues. "There is no doubt in my mind the task includes ensuring that the Senate provides judicial nominees an up-or-down vote." In calling for a resolution on the continued obstruction of judicial nominations, Burr added, "I remain hopeful still today that a resolution can be reached. Many of us have worked toward a fair process where all judicial nominees with majority support, regardless of party, receive an up-or-down vote." Earlier in the day, Burr led six of his Senate Freshman colleagues in a press conference to discuss the current impasse on judicial nominations. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
05.13.2005	05.13.05 Statement from Senator Richard Burr Regarding the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission Report: "I'm pleased that the BRAC Commission has recognized that North Carolina's military installations and our military personnel stationed in the state play a pivotal role in the war on terror. I am proud to be a part of the efforts made on the federal, state and local levels to support our military installations. North Carolina communities have embraced these bases in countless ways - from purchasing land and building roads for joint use to expanding in-state college tuition for military personnel. Across our state, communities like Jacksonville, Fayetteville and Goldsboro, as well as our state government and our congressional delegation, have worked to ensure North Carolina's men and women in uniform and their families have what they need. A transfer of the US Forces Command, a 4-Star Command, to Fort Bragg will further cement Fort Bragg's role as the premier Army installation on the East Coast. The realignment of Pope Air Force Base raises some questions and, while the Army has assured me that the 82nd Airborne will have all the airlift ability necessary to do its important work, I will work to ensure that the BRAC Commission looks into the issue. And by gaining 362 additional personnel, I am confident that Seymour Johnson Air Force Base will continue to play its critical role in our nation's air defense. I am disappointed, however, by the changes at the Naval Air Depot Cherry Point. I will work to ensure their fine work is reviewed by the Commission. Working together in a bipartisan manner at the federal, state and local levels, we will continue to make the case of the importance of North Carolina's military bases." # # #
05.12.2005	05.12.05 Burr Rocky Mount Office Open for Business Senator Richard Burr today announced that his Rocky Mount office is open for business. Contact information for the Rocky Mount office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr 100 Coast Line Street Room 210 Rocky Mount, North Carolina 27804 Phone: (252) 977-9522 or (800) 685-8916 Fax: (252) 977-7902 The office, located in the historic Downtown Train Station, will be open on Mondays from 8:30 AM to 5:30 PM. All other times, Senator Burr's North Carolina staff will be traveling throughout the area, covering Bertie, Beaufort, Camden, Chowan, Currituck, Dare, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hyde, Johnston, Lee, Martin, Nash, Northampton, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Pitt, Tyrrell, Wake, Warren, Washington and Wilson counties. Senator Burr's Rocky Mount office will be staffed by Betty Jo Shepheard. "With an office in Rocky Mount, constituents throughout the area will have access to my staff and essential government services," Senator Burr said. Senator Burr's Rocky Mount office will serve as a resource for North Carolinians. Senator Burr's North Carolina staff will be available to meet with constituents to listen to their concerns and will assist those with issues before the federal government. In addition, Senator Burr has four other offices open. Those offices can be reached at: Washington, DC Office 217 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Phone: (202) 224-3154 Fax: (202) 228-2981 Asheville Office Federal Building 151 Patton Avenue, Suite 204 Ashveville, NC 28801 Phone: (828) 350-2437 Fax: (828) 350-2439 Gastonia Office City Hall 181 South Street, Room 222 Gastonia, NC 28052 Phone: (704) 833-0854 Fax: (704) 833-1467 Winston-Salem Office 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC 27104 Phone: (336) 631-5125 Fax: (336) 725-4493 Senator Burr plans to open an additional North Carolina office in Wilmington. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
05.11.2005	05.11.05 Burr Holds Hearing on 21st Century Biological Threats Senator Richard Burr held a hearing of the Senate Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health Preparedness today to investigate the continuing threats Americans face from biological diseases and weapons. The Subcommittee is a part of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. The hearing focused on defining the threat from biological pathogens whatever their origin: natural, accidental or deliberate. While these events may occur locally, their impact would be global. Contagious pathogens like smallpox, SARS or avian influenza can rapidly spread internationally. Advances in genetic engineering and biotechnology and its diffusion globally hasten the day when states and terrorists can modify or even create highly virulent pathogens that can defeat our current medical defenses. Emerging and re-emerging diseases like SARS, Avian Influenza and monkey pox will continue to occur with potentially increasing frequency. The Subcommittee heard testimony from The Honorable Dr. John Deutch, Former Director of Intelligence and Deputy Secretary of Defense, currently an Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Harvey V. Fineberg, President of the Institute of Medicine, Dr. Craig Venter, President of the Venter Institute, Dr. Guenael Rodier, Director of Department of Communicable Disease Surveillance and Response at the World Health Organization and Dr. Shelley Hearne, Executive Director of the Trust for America's Health. "In the days since September 11, we've made great progress in better preparing ourselves for a bioterror attack. Clearly, however, there is more to do," said Senator Burr. "I would like to note that a recent report by the Trust for America's Health entitled 'Ready or Not: Protecting the Public's Health in the Age of Bioterrorism 2004' was a valuable comprehensive assessment of the preparedness of the states to deal with bioterrorism. It is a matter of personal and professional pride to note that North Carolina was cited in this report as one of two states scoring the highest in their assessment."
05.06.2005	05.06.05 Burr Gastonia Office Open for Business Senator Richard Burr today announced that his Gastonia office is open for business. Contact information for the Gastonia office is: Office of Senator Richard Burr Gastonia City Hall 181 South Street Room 222 Gastonia, North Carolina 28052 Phone: (704) 833-0854 or (800) 685-8916 Fax: (704) 833-1467 The office will be open on Mondays from 8:30 AM to 5:30 PM. All other times, Senator Burr's North Carolina staff will be traveling throughout the area, covering Alexander, Anson, Cabarrus, Caldwell, Catawba, Cleveland, Gaston, Hoke, Iredell, Lincoln, Mecklenburg, Montgomery, Moore, Richmond, Rowan, Scotland, Stanly and Union Counties. Senator Burr's Gastonia office will be staffed by Ryan Rankin. "With an office in Gastonia, constituents throughout the area will have access to my staff and essential government services," Senator Burr said. Senator Burr's Gastonia office will serve as a resource for North Carolinians. Senator Burr's North Carolina staff will be available to meet with constituents to listen to their concerns and will assist those with issues before the federal government. In addition, Senator Burr has three other offices open. Those offices can be reached at: Washington, D.C. 217 Russell Office Building United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Phone: (202) 224-3154 Fax: (202) 228-2981 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, NC 27104 Phone: (336) 631-5125 Fax: (336) 725-4493 Asheville, North Carolina Federal Building 151 Patton Avenue Suite 204 Asheville, North Carolina 28801 Phone: (828) 350-2437 Fax: (828) 350-2439 Senator Burr plans to open additional North Carolina offices in Rocky Mount and Wilmington. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
05.05.2005	05.05.05 Senator Burr Announces Rural Development Funding for Whitakers Funds will improve sewer system and waste disposal WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced a United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development grant of $1,097,000 and a $637,000 USDA Rural Development loan for the Town of Whitakers. USDA Rural Development's Water and Waste Disposal program awarded the federal funding, which will improve rural disposal of sewage. "Clean water and proper waste disposal are critical to keeping our citizens healthy and safe," said Senator Burr. "Whitakers will receive timely assistance in expanding access to clean water with this money." The federal funding will assist Whitakers officials in bringing the town's sewer system into compliance with State water quality standards, benefiting 376 residential water customers and 350 sewer customers by ensuring that waste is disposed of safely in their community. For more information, please visit https://www.burr.senate.gov.
05.05.2005	05.05.05 Senator Burr Announces Rural Development Funds for Pender County $1 million USDA grant will provide for new water distribution lines WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $1,000,000 Emergency Hurricane and Tropical Storms grant for Pender County's Rocky Point/Topsail Water and Sewer District. The grant money will be used to provide safe, clean and dependable water service and improve fire fighting capabilities for local volunteer fire departments through the construction of 20 miles of new water distribution lines. "We must ensure that our communities - urban, suburban and rural - are prepared should disaster strike," said Senator Burr. "I am pleased that these federal funds for Pender County will improve access to water in the event of an emergency and better equip local emergency responders." The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Division's Water and Waste Disposal grant program approved funding for Rocky Point/Topsail Water and Sewer District in the wake of the damage caused by Hurricane Isabel in Pender County in 2003. The county was declared a disaster area after many wells, from which residents draw drinking water, became contaminated by hurricane-damaged septic systems. In addition, Pender County's wells do not currently produce adequate water supplies to fight fires during times of drought. The funding will provide assistance to construct new water distribution lines. For more information, please visit https://www.burr.senate.gov.
05.05.2005	05.05.05 Senator Burr Announces Federal Research Funding for UNCW’s National Undersea Research Center $787,138 grant will provide for further study of marine environment WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced $787,138 in federal funding for the University of North Carolina at Wilmington's National Undersea Research Center (NURC). The United States Department of Commerce's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration awarded UNCW's NURC a federal grant through its National Undersea Research Program (NURP). "I am pleased to see North Carolina scientists' hard work rewarded by the opportunity to contribute more to their fields of study and to our country," said Senator Burr. "NURC continues to find the best methods for preserving our precious natural resources." The federal funds will be used to conduct undersea research along the southeastern U.S. coast including the coasts of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Texas. This region spans some of the Nation's most valuable developed oil and gas resources and the second most valuable commercial fishing industry in the Nation. NURC researchers study how to best utilize and preserve the Nation's marine environments and resources. The Center's work raises public awareness of problems facing coastal regions across the country and how these problems can best be solved. For more information, please visit https://www.burr.senate.gov.
04.29.2005	04.29.05 Burr Announces Staff Additions to Bioterrorism and Public Health Subcommittee Senator Richard Burr today announced that Dr. Bob Kadlec, Jenny Hansen and Kendall Byrum have joined the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions' Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health staff. Dr. Bob Kadlec will serve as Staff Director of the Subcommittee. Dr. Kadlec, recently retired from the Air Force, has recently completed three years of service at the White House as the Director of Biodefense Preparedness and Response at the Homeland Security Council where he worked on the national smallpox vaccination policy and oversaw operation of the BioWatch program. He graduated from the United States Air Force Academy, later graduating from medical school at the Uniformed Service University of the Health Sciences. Jenny Hansen will serve as Health Policy Director. For over six years, Ms. Hansen has assisted Senator Burr on health care legislation related to the Food and Drug Administration, Medicare, and Medicaid. Before joining Burr's staff, she worked for the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare. Ms. Hansen graduated magna cum laude from Duke University with a degree in Public Policy. Kendall Byrum will serve as Staff Assistant. Ms. Byrum, a former intern in Burr's Congressional office, graduated from Meredith College in '03 with a B.A. in Political Science. She was previously employed at Meyers and Associates in Washington, D.C. "Preparing our public health system and health care providers to combat bioterrorism is an important task and I look forward to the subcommittee playing a significant role in the public policy debates in this critical area," said Burr. "During this Congress, I'm working to build on the past successes of the HELP Committee as well as increase the involvement of the Subcommittees," said Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY). "Senator Burr is playing an important role in that effort by contributing valuable insights and opinions on the important issues facing his Subcommittee and the Committee as a whole. I'm pleased that these new staff members have joined the HELP team to support and move forward the important work Senator Burr is doing."
04.28.2005	04.28.05 Burr, Dole Applaud Senate Approval of Conrad, Dever Nominations Call on Senate to end partisan politics on judicial nominees Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today applauded the Senate for approving the nominations of Robert J. Conrad to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina and James C. Dever III to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The nominations had previously been held up for several years. Judge Dever was originally nominated for the post by President Bush on May 22, 2002. Mr. Conrad was nominated by President Bush on April 28, 2003. "Bob Conrad and Jim Dever have the character, integrity and record of public service to serve as judges who will make North Carolina proud," said Senator Burr. "I am pleased the Senate acted today on these nominees so they can begin their work on behalf of North Carolina and our nation. I urge my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee to quickly consider Judge Boyle's nomination. Judge Boyle deserves an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor." "This vote finally puts an end to the longest judicial emergency for the district courts in the country. Jim Dever will do an admirable job on the bench," said Senator Dole. "Bob Conrad will do a fine job of interpreting the law. Both of these nominees come with strong credentials, and I am pleased the Senate has moved forward on their nominations. I am disappointed that the Judiciary Committee did not consider Judge Boyle today. After more than a decade, his nomination has been held up far too long. For 214 years, the Senate has exercised its constitutional responsibility to provide advice and consent on judicial nominations, and this tradition must continue." Senators Burr and Dole have worked diligently in support of the nominations. In February, Burr and Dole signed the Senate "blue slips" necessary to advance the Conrad, Dever and Boyle nominations forward. Last month, they testified in support of the nominees before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Both have spoken on the Senate floor in support of the nominees. Earlier this month, Burr, joined by six of his Senate Freshmen colleagues, signed a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid seeking a solution to the standstill on judicial nominations. For more information, please visit https://www.burr.senate.gov or www.dole.senate.gov.
04.27.2005	04.27.05 Burr Applauds President Bush’s Remarks Urging Modernization of Electricity Transmission Grid Burr energy bill would update electricity transmission grid Senator Richard Burr today praised President George W. Bush's remarks calling for the modernization of the electricity transmission grid. "Clearly, President Bush understands the importance of modernizing and improving our electricity transmission grid," said Burr. "By modernizing the grid, we can avoid costly power outages while increasing efficiency. I applaud President Bush for his remarks and will continue to work with him and my Senate colleagues to enact a comprehensive energy plan that ensures reliable - and affordable - electricity." Burr is the author of the Interstate Transmission Act of 2005. The legislation, introduced with Senators Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Trent Lott (R-MS) seeks to protect local rate payers and ensure reliable, low cost electricity by making electric reliability standards mandatory, increasing investment in the upgrade of the transmission grid and protecting local electricity customers by preserving states role in regulating electricity costs. Remarks today by President George W. Bush to the Small Business Administration Expo '05: "As we conserve energy at home and on the road, technology will help us deliver it more efficiently. New technologies such as superconducting power lines can help us bring our electrical grid into the 21st century, and protect American families and businesses from damaging power outages. Some of you who live in the Midwest and on the East Coast know what I'm talking about -- damaging power outages. We have modern interstate grids for our phone lines and our highways. It's time for America to build a modern electricity grid."
04.26.2005	04.26.05 Burr Asheville Office Open for Business Senator Richard Burr today announced that his office in Asheville is open for business. Contact information for the Asheville office is: Federal Building 151 Patton Avenue Suite 204 Asheville, North Carolina 28801 Phone: (828) 350-2437 or (800) 685-8916 Fax: (828) 350-2439 The office will be open on Mondays from 8:30 AM to 5:30 PM. All other times, Senator Burr's North Carolina staff will be traveling throughout Western North Carolina, covering a total of nineteen counties. Senator Burr's Asheville office will be staffed by Joe Brannock. "With an office in Asheville, constituents throughout Western North Carolina will have access to my staff and essential government services," Senator Burr said. Senator Burr's Asheville office will serve as a resource for residents of Western North Carolina. Senator Burr's North Carolina staff will be available to meet with constituents to listen to their concerns and will assist those with issues before the federal government. Senator Burr has two additional offices already open. Those offices can be reached at: 217 Russell Office Building United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Phone: (202) 224-3154 Fax: (202) 228-2981 2000 West First Street Suite 508 Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27104 Phone: (336) 631-5125 Fax: (336) 725-4493 Additional North Carolina offices will open in Gastonia, Rocky Mount and Wilmington. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
04.25.2005	04.25.05 Senators Dole, Burr Sponsor Resolution Honoring Frederick C. Branch North Carolina native the first African American to be commissioned as a U.S. Marine officer Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr sponsored a resolution to commemorate the life, achievements, and contributions of Frederick C. Branch, a North Carolina native who was the first African American to be commissioned as an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. "I am privileged to offer this resolution honoring Captain Branch," said Senator Dole. "He was a true American hero who proudly served his country, and thanks in part to his courage and perseverance, today there are 1,700 African American Marine Officers serving our nation." "Captain Branch was a true pioneer," said Senator Burr. "His sacrifices made it possible for thousands of African Americans to follow in his footsteps. I am proud to sponsor this resolution to honor such a great North Carolina native." Text of the resolution is below: RESOLUTION Commemorating the life, achievements, and contributions of Frederick C. Branch. Whereas Frederick C. Branch was born on May 31, 1922 in Hamlet, North Carolina, studied at Johnson C. Smith University, and graduated from Temple University with a degree in Physics; Whereas Frederick C. Branch was drafted in May of 1943, and was one of 20,000 African American Marines to serve in World War II; Whereas Frederick C. Branch was one of the original Montford Point Marines, having received training alongside other African American Marines during World War II at the Marine Barracks in New Point, North Carolina, which was separated by five miles from the training grounds for all other Marines at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina; Whereas Frederick C. Branch, after having served in the South Pacific during World War II, was offered the opportunity to receive officer training; Whereas Frederick C. Branch excelled by making the dean's list as an officer trainee, and was the sole African American candidate in a class of 250 future officers; Whereas Frederick C. Branch became the first African American to be commissioned as an officer in the United States Marine Corps, having earned the rank of second lieutenant on November 10, 1945; Whereas Frederick C. Branch proudly served our nation during the Korean War, and left the service after having risen to the rank of Captain; Whereas Frederick C. Branch established a science department at Dobbins High School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where he taught until his retirement in 1988; Whereas in 1997 the United States Marine Corps recognized Frederick C. Branch's contribution to integration, and named a training facility in his honor at Marine Corps Officer Candidate School in Quantico, Virginia; Whereas Frederick C. Branch was widowed upon the death of his wife and partner of 55 years, Camilla "Peggy" Robinson, and is survived by two brothers, William and Floyd, and a godson, Joseph Alex Cooper; Whereas Frederick C. Branch passed away on April 10, 2005, having paved the way for the 1,700 African American Marine Officers serving our nation today; Whereas Frederick C. Branch was buried with full military honors at Marine Corps Base Quantico on April 20, 2005; Resolved, That the Senate— (1) honors the life, achievements, and contributions of Frederick C. Branch; and (2) extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Frederick C. Branch for the loss of a great, courageous, and pioneering man.
04.20.2005	04.20.05 Burr Speaks Out on Judicial Nominations Senator Richard Burr today took to the Senate floor to speak out on judicial nominations. Burr's remarks, below, followed a letter he wrote with six of his Senate Freshmen colleagues (Senators Coburn, DeMint, Isakson, Martinez, Thune and Vitter) to Senate Majority Leader Frist and Senate Minority Leader Reid. The letter seeks to refine the confirmation process and end any impasse so that judicial nominees supported by a majority of Senators may receive an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. Please contact Senators Burr's office for a copy of the letter. Remarks by Senator Richard Burr United States Senate Floor April 20, 2005 Mr. President, I rise today to urge our leadership and the rest of my colleagues in the United States Senate to preserve the significance of our responsibility, enumerated in the Constitution, and to work together to address the judicial crisis that threatens to severely damage our system. As members of the Senate, we each bring our own unique background and experience to this institution. And our progress as a body often requires us to make difficult decisions as individuals. While our individual positions on various issues will certainly differ, we must stand together to repair the judicial confirmation process. Several judicial vacancies have been lingering in our courts for years, causing many jurisdictions, including one in my home state of North Carolina, to be declared "judicial emergencies." It is our responsibility, as United States Senators, to respond to these judicial emergencies with action and determination. It is inexcusable that we allow judicial vacancies to linger for six years or, in some cases, longer. Such is the case for the people of my state in the Eastern District of North Carolina. The North Carolina Eastern District post is the longest district court vacancy in the nation-- a seat vacant since 1997. In 1999, the Administrative Office of the Courts declared the district a "judicial emergency" and it has been categorized this way for the last 6 years. For my state, we face challenges on the appellate level as well. There are 15 circuit court judgeships in the 4th Circuit but only one of these is occupied by a North Carolina judge. North Carolina is significantly underrepresented at the circuit court level. A great deal of this can, of course, be attributed to the political nature of the debate surrounding nominations to the 4th Circuit. But I believe all North Carolinians deserve another voice on the 4th Circuit. Judge Boyle, currently serving as a District Court Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, was nominated in May, 2001, by the President to serve on the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals. The American Bar Association has unanimously rated Judge Boyle as "well-qualified," and has stated he would make an outstanding appellate judge. The act of merely considering Judge Boyle's nomination should not be a political issue for this distinguished body. Unfortunately over the past few years it has become one. Before the 108th Congress, when Judge Boyle was first nominated, no judicial nomination which had a clear majority of Senators supporting the nomination was ever prevented from receiving an up-or-down vote. This current judicial confirmation situation is unprecedented. We should put aside the grievances that have prevented the consideration of judges through the past three Presidential administrations and work together to find a solution. As Senators we must face this crisis with optimism and confidence. Working together we must address this situation directly because I believe that our constituents do not hope for, nor do they expect, inaction from us on such an important part of our system of government. Partisan bickering or avoidance of our procedural challenges is not a responsible course of action. Let me be clear--I believe if one of my colleagues objects to a particular judicial nominee it is certainly appropriate and fair for my colleague to vote against that nominee on the Senate floor. But denying these patriotic Americans, of both parties, who seek to serve this country an up-or-down vote is simply not fair, and it certainly was not the intention of our Founding Fathers when they designed and created this very institution. As our country plants the seeds of democracy across the world, we have the essential obligation to continue to operate as the model. The integrity of the judicial system is vital and will certainly suffer as a result of inaction. Maintaining our nation's long-standing distinction requires that its legislature act to ensure harmony and balance among its citizens and its branches of government. We need to fix this broken process. We need to end the judicial crisis. And we need to vote on our judges. Thank you Mr. President, I yield the floor.
04.19.2005	04.19.05 Senators Dole, Burr Express Support for High Point Market Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today introduced a resolution expressing support for the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina. "The High Point Market has a significant impact on the North Carolina economy, contributing more than $1.1 billion dollars annually and attracting more attendees than any other event in the state," said Senator Dole. "As the conclusion of the spring market is upon us, I am proud to recognize the importance of this great event to our state." "Twice a year, the High Point Furniture Market brings thousands of people to North Carolina, which greatly benefits our economy," said Senator Burr. "The High Point Furniture market has become a North Carolina institution and I am proud to introduce a resolution in its honor." Text of the resolution is below: Expressing support for the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina. IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES Mrs. DOLE (for herself and Mr. BURR) submitted the following resolution; Whereas the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina (commonly known as the ''High Point Market'') is the largest home furnishings industry trade show of its kind in the world; Whereas the High Point Market takes place every April and October, and is the largest event in North Carolina, attended by more people for a longer period of time over a larger area than any other event in the State; Whereas an average of 70,000 manufacturers, exhibitors, sales representatives, retail buyers, interior designers, architects, support personnel, suppliers, and news media attend the High Point Market each April and October; Whereas people from all 50 States and more than 100 foreign countries attend the High Point Market; Whereas the High Point Market attracts an average of 2,500 exhibitors from around the world, with international exhibitors constituting more than 10 percent of the exhibitors at the event; Whereas the exhibits at the High Point Market encompass a wide variety of finished products, including case goods (wood furniture), upholstery, accessories, lighting, bedding, and rugs; Whereas the High Point Market has more than 11,500,000 square feet of permanent showroom space in more than 180 separate buildings in High Point and Thomasville, North Carolina; Whereas the High Point Market brings $1,140,000,000 and more than 13,000 jobs to North Carolina annually, and creates a significant, lasting, and positive economic impact on a State in which the manufacturing economy is declining due to offshore production; Whereas the Federal Government has invested in the High Point Market by providing funding to help meet critical transportation infrastructure needs; and Whereas the High Point Market is a vital engine for economic growth for North Carolina, especially for the region commonly known as the Triad Region: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) expresses support for the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina; (2) commends those who organize and participate in the International Home Furnishings Market for their contributions to economic growth and vitality in North Carolina; and (3) recognizes that the International Home Furnishings Market has a positive economic impact on North Carolina and is vital to a region and State adversely affected by a decline in traditional manufacturing.
04.19.2005	04.19.05 Burr Announces Loan for Vance County Hicksboro Volunteer Fire Department receives federal funds WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced a $237,500 federal loan for the Hicksboro Volunteer Fire Department in Vance County. The Community Facility Direct loan, made possible by United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development program, will improve the department's emergency preparedness and response time. "Our emergency responders play a vital role in keeping our communities safe," said Senator Burr. "It is critical that firefighters have the necessary resources to ensure that they are prepared to respond to emergencies." Hicksboro Volunteer Fire Department will purchase an Emergency One Commercial Top Mount pumper vehicle on a 2005 Freightliner Business Class two door chassis. This new vehicle will replace an unreliable 24 year-old pumper. The loan was approved at a rate of 4.25 percent over 20 years.
04.14.2005	04.14.05 Burr Praises Senate Judiciary Committee’s Approval of North Carolina Judicial Nominations Senator Richard Burr today praised the Senate Judiciary Committee for approving the nominations of Robert J. Conrad to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina and James C. Dever, III to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. "Today's vote by the Senate Judiciary Committee is a positive step for North Carolina," said Burr. "I applaud the Committee for approving the nominations and look forward to Bob Conrad and Jim Dever receiving an up or down vote on the floor of the United States Senate. It is also my hope that the Committee quickly consider the nomination of Judge Terrence Boyle so that he may receive an up or down vote, as well." For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
04.05.2005	04.05.05 Senators Burr, Dole Introduce Resolution Commending Tar Heels’ National Championship Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Elizabeth Dole today introduced a resolution commending the University of North Carolina men's basketball team for winning the 2005 Division I NCAA national championship. Text of the resolution is below: Commending the University of North Carolina men's basketball team for winning the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men's Basketball Championship. IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES Mr. BURR (for himself and Mrs. DOLE) submitted the following resolution; RESOLUTION Commending the University of North Carolina men's basketball team for winning the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men's Basketball Championship. Whereas on April 4, 2005, the North Carolina Tar Heels defeated the Illinois Fighting Illini 75-70 in the finals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (''NCAA'') Division I Men's Basketball Tournament in St. Louis, Missouri; Whereas the Tar Heels now hold 5 men's basketball titles, including 4 NCAA tournament titles—the fourth-most in NCAA history; Whereas the Tar Heels' men's team has won championships in 1924, 1957, 1982, 1993, and 2005; Whereas Tar Heels head coach and Asheville, North Carolina, native Roy Williams won his first NCAA title in just his second year coaching the team, improving to 470-116 in 17 seasons as a head coach, and has the best record of any active coach in men's basketball; Whereas seniors Jawad Williams, Jackie Manuel, Melvin Scott, Charlie Everett, and C.J. Hooker celebrated 4 years at North Carolina with a ''Final Four'' win; Whereas Sean May was named Most Outstanding Player of the tournament, scoring 26 points and collecting 10 rebounds in the final game; Whereas Tar Heels Raymond Felton and Rashad McCants joined Sean May on the All-Tournament Team, along with Illini players Luther Head and Deron Williams; Whereas the North Carolina Tar Heels finished the 2004-2005 season with 33 wins and just 4 losses, and won the championship by defeating an Illinois team that tied an NCAA record for wins in a season at 37; Whereas freshman Tar Heel Marvin Williams helped seal the victory with a tip-in with 1 minute and 26 seconds left to play; Whereas the Tar Heel defense held Illinois to 27 percent from the field in the first half and prevented the Illini from scoring during the last 2 minutes and 37 seconds; Whereas North Carolina defeated Michigan State 87-71 to earn a spot in the final contest; Whereas the Tar Heels defeated Oakland and Iowa State in Charlotte, North Carolina, then Villanova and Wisconsin in Syracuse, New York, to advance to the ''Final Four''; Whereas Albemarle, North Carolina, native Woody Durham has been the radio play-by-play voice of North Carolina's basketball programs since 1971, and this was his 11th ''Final Four'' with the Tar Heels and third national championship call; Whereas the Tar Heel team members are excellent representatives of a fine university that is a leader in higher education, producing 38 Rhodes scholars, as well as many fine student-athletes and other leaders; Whereas each player, coach, trainer, manager, and staff member dedicated this season and their efforts to ensure the North Carolina Tar Heels reached the summit of college basketball; Whereas the Tar Heels showed tremendous dedication to each other, appreciation to their fans, sportsmanship to their opponents, and respect for the game of basketball throughout the 2005 season; and Whereas residents of the Old North State and North Carolina fans worldwide are to be commended for their longstanding support, perseverance and pride in the team: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) commends the champion North Carolina Tar Heels for their historic win in the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Men's Basketball Tournament (2) recognizes the achievements of the players, coaches, students, and support staff who were instrumental in helping the University of North Carolina Tar Heels win the tournament; and (3) directs the Secretary of the Senate to transmit a copy of this resolution to University of North Carolina Chancellor James Moeser and head coach Roy Williams for appropriate display.
04.02.2005	04.02.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr Regarding the Death of Pope John Paul II "There is no question that for nearly three decades, Pope John Paul II was a leader on the world stage. He was a tireless advocate for the cause of freedom, helping to liberate Eastern Europe, including his native Poland, from communism. While doing so, Pope John Paul II traveled the world to remind all of humanity that our freedoms come with important responsibilities -- not the least of which is recognizing the dignity of human life. Today is a very sad day, not only for Catholics, but for all people. It is also a time to remember the profound and positive impact Pope John Paul II made on our world."
03.30.2005	03.30.05 Burr Announces More than $13 Million in Federal Loans for North Carolina WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Richard Burr today announced more than $13 million in federal loans for North Carolina. The United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Community Facility Direct Loan program approved loans for projects in 12 North Carolina counties. "As we work to bring educational, health care, law enforcement and employment opportunities to the state, it's important that we remember all regions of North Carolina - urban, suburban and rural," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina's rural communities will receive timely assistance in building better schools and emergency response facilities with these loans." • Pamlico County will receive a $1 million loan towards construction of a law enforcement center. • The Town of Blowing Rock (Watauga County) will receive a $2.2 million loan to help build a Fire & Emergency Medical Services facility. • The Clay County Justice Center will receive a $2.685 million loan to be used for a new administrative building and sheriff's office. • Collettsville's Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department (Caldwell County) will receive a $1.2 million loan for a new fire station with offices, a training area and conference room. • Knotts Island Volunteer Fire Department (Currituck County) will receive an $800,000 loan to be used to construct a new station. • North Carolina Global TransPark Authority in Kinston (Lenoir County) will receive a $500,000 loan to expand existing hanger space and renovate the existing facility. • The Tiller School of Carteret County will receive a $450,000 loan to construct six new classrooms. • The Town of Catawba (Catawba County) will receive a $926,500 loan to remodel and modernize the Catawba Town Hall and enlarge its fire stations. • The Town of Valdese (Burke County) will receive a $1.2 million loan to construct an Administrative Building for the town's administrative offices. • Washington Montessori, Inc. in Washington (Beaufort County) will receive a $1.5 million loan to construct new school facilities. • The White Plains Volunteer Fire Department (Surry County) will receive a $375,000 loan to replace two aging fire trucks with a new pumper and a new tanker. • The Town of Winfall (Perquimans County) will receive a $28,800 loan - and a $15,000 grant - to purchase a four wheel drive police vehicle. • Pathways for the Future in Sylva (Jackson County) will receive a $400,000 loan to expand Pathways' existing facility. These loans were approved over a 40 year period at a 4.25 percent interest rate.
03.29.2005	03.29.05 Burr Announces $940,000 for Yadkin County Senator Richard Burr today announced that the United States Department of Commerce will invest $940,000 in water infrastructure improvements for Yadkin County. The funds, from the Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA), will be used to expand Yadkin County's water treatment capacity. The Department of Commerce estimates that the funds will save 357 existing jobs, create new jobs and generate more than $17 million in private investments in Yadkin County. "These funds are vital to saving jobs and providing a source of clean water for Yadkin County," said Burr. "It's important that we ensure all North Carolinians have access to a clean water supply and that we create jobs in every corner of North Carolina." The Economic Development Administration was established to work with states and localities to generate new jobs, retain existing jobs, and stimulate industrial and commercial growth in economically distressed areas and regions of the United States. EDA funds are strategically targeted to increase local competitiveness and strengthen the local and regional economic base.
03.24.2005	03.24.05 Burr Announces Visits Over Spring Recess Senator Richard Burr will visit Charlotte, Durham, Gastonia, Mount Airy, Raleigh and Winston-Salem during the Spring Recess. Burr will visit schools, businesses and civic groups. Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Tuesday, March 29 12:30 PM - Senator Burr to address Winston-Salem Rotary Clubs/Chamber of Commerce Benton Convention Center 301 West Fifth Street Winston-Salem, North Carolina 2:30 PM - Senator Burr to present Bronze Star to James Neel Mount Airy City Hall - City Council Chambers 110 South Main Street Mount Airy, North Carolina 4:30 PM - Senator Burr to attend opening of Winston-Salem State University's Transforming Communities Research Lab Winston-Salem State University Winston-Salem, North Carolina Wednesday, March 30 11:30 AM - Senator Burr to address Charlotte Chamber of Commerce Belk Action Center 330 South Tryon Street Charlotte, North Carolina 2:00 PM - Senator Burr to tour Gaston Memorial Hospital 2626 Court Drive Gastonia, North Carolina 4:00 PM - Senator Burr to tour General Dynamics 2118 Water Ridge Parkway Charlotte, North Carolina Thursday, March 31 9:00 AM - Senator Burr to address Duke Political Union Duke University Durham, North Carolina Noon - Senator Burr to attend National Federation of Independent Businesses lunch Raleigh Marriott Crabtree 4500 Marriott Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 2:00 PM - Senator Burr to tour ABB Power Technologies 940 Main Campus Drive Raleigh, North Carolina 4:00 PM - Senator Burr to tour Community Alternative for Supportive Abodes (CASA) 424 West Jones Street Raleigh, North Carolina
03.16.2005	03.16.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr Regarding the President’s Announcement of Kevin Martin as Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission: "I'm proud Kevin Martin, a native of Weddington, has been designated the next Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Kevin has served on the Commission at a time of great change and uncertainty. In his new role at the FCC, I know he will help move the telecommunications industry forward in the 21st century. I look forward to working with him."
03.16.2005	03.16.05 Burr Announces $6.4 Million in Loans for Mount Airy Loans to benefit local economy and school Senator Richard Burr today announced $6.4 million in loans for Mount Airy. The loans, a $4 million loan for the Millennium Education Foundation and a $2.4 million loan for Gerard's Bakery, will help increase jobs and educational opportunities in Mount Airy. The loans were made by the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Program. "It's important that as we work to bring educational and employment opportunities to the state, we remember all of North Carolina - urban, suburban and rural," said Senator Burr. "These loans will bring critical financial support to Mount Airy, providing opportunities to increase jobs and expand a school." The $4 million loan to the Millenium Education Foundation will be used to construct additional classroom space for the Millennium Charter Academy. The school, which currently enrolls 235 kindergarten through fifth grade students, will use the new space to expand enrollment through the eighth grade. The $2.4 million loan for Gerard's Bakery in Mount Airy will be used to purchase equipment for a fully integrated bakery facility. With this funding, an estimated 45 new jobs will be created in Mount Airy. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
03.09.2005	03.09.05 Burr Joins Senate High Tech Task Force Senator Richard Burr announced today that he has joined the Senate Republican High Tech Task Force. The Task Force, made up of thirteen United States Senators, will reach out to the technology community and advise the Republican Caucus on technology issues during the 109th Congress. Priorities for the Task Force include fostering emerging technologies such as biotech and nanotech, protecting cyber security, accelerating broadband deployment and improving our health care infrastructure. "Our colleges and universities, as well as Piedmont-Triad Research Park and Research Triangle Park, have put North Carolina at the forefront of the high tech community," said Senator Burr. "By serving on the High Tech Task Force, I will work to ensure that North Carolina businesses, educational institutions and health care organizations have a voice in legislation focusing on high tech issues." Other members of the High Tech Task Force include Senators Wayne Allard (CO), George Allen (VA), Bob Bennett (UT), Norm Coleman (MN), John Cornyn (TX), Orrin Hatch (UT), Conrad Burns (MT), Michael Crapo (ID), Kay Bailey Hutchinson (TX), Gordon Smith (OR), John E. Sununu (NH) and John Thune (SD). For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov or http://republican.senate.gov/httf.
03.03.2005	03.03.05 Burr to Visit Clayton Senator will mark grand opening of Caterpillar facility Senator Richard Burr will visit Clayton tomorrow, Friday, March 4 at 10:30 AM, for the grand opening of Caterpillar's Building Construction Products Division (BCP) Visitor & Training Center. Burr will deliver remarks to more than 1,000 Caterpillar employees and community leaders and participate in a ribbon cutting ceremony. "I am pleased to join the Clayton community in celebrating the opening of a facility that will help foster continued economic growth in North Carolina," said Senator Burr. "This new center will attract prospective and current Caterpillar customers from all over the world to Clayton." Caterpillar employs nearly 2,500 North Carolinians at eight facilities. Caterpillar's BCP, headquartered in Clayton, hosts more than 10,000 visitors each year. These visitors will be able to access a 10,000-square-foot Visitor & Training Center providing customer training and product demonstration. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
03.03.2005	03.03.05 Senators Dole, Burr Express Support for North Carolina Judicial Nominees U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today testified before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary in support of the three judicial nominees from North Carolina. Their testimony comes one week after Dole and Burr both signed their respective "blue slips," moving the nominations forward in the confirmation process. The nominees include Terrence W. Boyle to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, Robert J. Conrad to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, and James C. Dever, III to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The nominations were sent to the Senate by President Bush on February 14. All three North Carolina judicial nominees were nominated in the last Congress, though none received a hearing. "Today's hearing is long overdue," said Senator Dole. "Our federal bench has been without the service of these able judges for far too long. All three North Carolina nominees come with impeccable credentials, and it is my privilege to support all three of them. It is my fervent hope the full Senate will move expeditiously on these nominations and that senators will refrain from partisan political maneuvers." "Today is a good day for North Carolina," said Burr. "Today's hearing - something denied to all three nominees in the past - is an important step to move the nominations forward in the confirmation process. I urge the Judiciary Committee to approve Judge Boyle, Magistrate Dever and former U.S. Attorney Conrad so their nominations may have an up or down vote on the Senate floor." For more information, please visit www.dole.senate.gov or https://www.burr.senate.gov.
03.02.2005	03.02.05 Burr Introduces Bipartisan Electricity Legislation Burr’s First Bill Will Seek Reliable, Affordable Electricity Senator Richard Burr, along with Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Senator Trent Lott (R-MS), today introduced legislation to increase electricity reliability, upgrade the energy transmission grid and keep electricity rates in the region affordable. The legislation, the Interstate Transmission Act of 2005, would seek to protect local rate payers and ensure reliable, low cost electricity by making electric reliability standards mandatory, increasing investment in the upgrade of the transmission grid and protecting local electricity customers by preserving states role in regulating electricity costs. "We often take for granted that our lights will come on when we flip the light switch, but the reality is that our reliability standards and the current state of the transmission grid leave us all vulnerable to blackouts," said Senator Burr. "This legislation is an important step in creating a comprehensive energy plan that will ensure all North Carolinians are able to enjoy reliable - and affordable - electricity. I thank Senators Landrieu and Lott for their leadership on this important legislation." "I am proud to join Sen. Burr in sponsoring this vital measure to help enhance the reliability of one of our country's most critical infrastructure -- the electrical grid," Senator Landrieu said. "This much-needed legislation will begin paving the way to a true 'electric super-highway.'" As a Member of the House of Representatives, Burr sponsored two pieces of legislation strengthening electric transmission. H.R. 2814, introduced in the 107th Congress, sought to increased incentives for investing in the energy transmission grid. H.R. 1370, introduced in the 108th Congress, also sought to increase incentives for investing in the electric transmission grid, as well as energy reliability standards. Both pieces of legislation became part of larger, comprehensive energy legislation that was passed by the House. "As we have seen in the past, disruptions to our energy supplies will have serious consequences for our economy," added Burr. "It is critical that we have a comprehensive energy plan to provide affordable and reliable supplies of energy so that our economy will not be dependent on foreign sources of energy." Currently, the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) oversees the operation of the electric transmission grid and has called for tough federal reliability standards. Although NERC has mandatory reliability standards on the books, the Council does not have the authority to enforce standards or fine utilities for violating standards. If a utility is found to be violating the standard, NERC is limited to conducting a review to find out why the power supplier is not complying. The Burr/Landrieu/Lott bill will make the standards mandatory and enforceable. Lack of mandatory standards is cited as a major factor that led to the August 2003 northeastern blackout. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
02.24.2005	02.24.05 Senators Dole, Burr Move NC Judicial Nominees Towards Senate Confirmation Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today announced that North Carolina's judicial nominees have received the necessary signatures to receive a hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Dole and Burr have both signed their respective "blue slips" and have sent them to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter so the nominees can move forward in the confirmation process. The nominations include Terrence W. Boyle to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, Robert J. Conrad to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, and James C. Dever, III to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The nominations were sent to the Senate by President Bush on February 14 and are expected to receive a hearing next week. In addition, Gretchen C. F. Shappert was nominated for U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Each of the four nominees was nominated in the last Congress, though none received a hearing. "I am so pleased that we can finally move forward with these nominations that have been unconscionably held up for too long," said Senator Dole. "I look forward to swift approval by the Judiciary Committee and final confirmation before the U.S. Senate, and my hope is that petty politics do not get in the way of filling our court vacancies." "For too long, even judicial nominees supported by a majority of United States Senators were tied up in partisan politics," said Burr. "As I have said, our judicial nominees deserve an up-or-down vote and I am proud to join with Senator Dole in assisting these four North Carolinians in moving forward in the confirmation process. By signing these blue slips, these North Carolinians are one step closer to a vote on the Senate floor." For more information, please visit www.dole.senate.gov or https://www.burr.senate.gov.
02.19.2005	02.19.05 Burr Announces Visits Over President's Day Recess Senator Richard Burr will spend the President's Day recess visiting towns throughout Eastern North Carolina. The events will provide Burr the opportunity to meet with a wide range of North Carolinians by visiting schools, military installations and civic groups. "I'm looking forward to spending time in Eastern North Carolina and listening to people's concerns about jobs, health care and education," said Burr. "Visiting Cherry Point Marine Base and Pope Air Force Base will help me gain further perspective on the sacrifices we've asked our men and women in uniform to make and the equipment we send them to battle with." Any media wishing to cover one or more of Senator Burr's visits MUST contact the host site or organization prior to the event. The visits to the Marine Base at Cherry Point and Pope Air Force Base are CLOSED to the press. Please contact Senator Burr's office to schedule separate interviews. Monday, February 21: 10:30 AM Senator Burr to visit Spring Hope Elementary 401 McLean Street Spring Hope, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to address the Rocky Mount Rotary Club Gateway Center 651 Winstead Avenue Salon C Rocky Mount, North Carolina Tuesday, February 22: 7:30 AM Senator Burr to attend Albemarle Economic Development Commission Breakfast The Pines at Elizabeth City 1525 North Road Street Elizabeth City, North Carolina 9:30 AM Senator Burr to tour Coast Guard Support Center Elizabeth City, North Carolina 11:00 AM Senator Burr to participate in BOW Mariner Medal Ceremony Hanger 55 Coast Guard Support Center Elizabeth City, North Carolina 12:30 PM Senator Burr to announce Rural Development Grant at Elizabeth City State University K.E. White Education Center Elizabeth City State University 1704 Weekesville Road Elizabeth City, North Carolina 2:00 PM Senator Burr to meet with Economic Development Group County Managers Conference Room 117 North NC Highway 343 Camden, North Carolina 6:00 PM Senator Burr to attend North Carolina Medical Society discussion on Medical Liability Reform 222 North Person Street Raleigh, North Carolina Wednesday, February 23 9:45 AM Senator Burr to tour Marine Base at Cherry Point Cherry Point, North Carolina 1:00 PM Senator Burr to attend Craven County Economic Development Meeting Institute of Aeronautical Technology Craven Community College 301 Cunningham Blvd. Havelock, North Carolina 3:00 PM Senator Burr to tour Elyward pharmaceutical packaging plant 401 Industrial Drive New Bern, North Carolina Thursday, February 24 9:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Ashley High School 555 Halyburton Memorial Parkway Wilmington, North Carolina 12:00 PM Senator Burr to address Wilmington Chamber of Commerce Landfall Country Club 1550 Landfall Drive Wilmington, North Carolina 2:00 PM Senator Burr to visit Cape Fear Memorial Hospital 5301 Wrightsville Avenue Wilmington, North Carolina 6:00 PM Senator Burr to attend North Carolina Medical Society discussion on Medical Liability Reform New Hanover County Health Department 2029 South 17th Street Wilmington. North Carolina Friday, February 25 10:00 AM Senator Burr to visit Pope Air Force Base Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina 1:30 PM Senator Burr to Present the Bronze Congressional Medal to Erin Cochran Massey Hill Classical High School 1062 Southern Avenue Fayetteville, North Carolina
02.11.2005	02.11.05 Senators Burr and Dole Fight Offshore Drilling Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today expressed concerns to Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Domenici regarding the economic impact of oil and gas exploration off the coast of North Carolina. "I am proud to lead the effort on the Republican side to ensure that any language that would negatively impact the economy of our beachfront communities stays out of this year's energy bill," said Senator Dole. "And I am pleased that my colleague, Senator Burr, has joined me in the U.S. Senate in addressing this important issue. We will continue to urge our colleagues to join this bi-partisan effort. Any exploration off our coast that would harm our tourism industry is bad for North Carolina." "It is important that we honor the moratorium on exploration and drilling off the coast of North Carolina," said Burr. "Our coastal communities are vital to North Carolina's character and economy. As we move forward on comprehensive energy legislation, I will continue to work to protect North Carolina's coast." Since 1993 coastal areas have been protected by a moratorium preventing drilling. Under the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), authority over the coastal waters has been shared by the Department of Interior, the Department of Commerce, and the coastal states. The Senators' concern revolves around language that would grant authority to the Secretary of Interior over a broad range of oil and gas support facilities in the Outer Continental Shelf, which includes North Carolina's coastline. Centralizing authority to one department would undermine the decades of successful cooperation between the coastal states and federal agencies. Background Tourism is one of the largest industries in North Carolina. Last year, there were some 44.4 million visitors to North Carolina, ranking it the 6th most popular destination in the United States. Last year domestic travelers spent nearly $12 billion across the state, generating $2.2 billion in tax receipts, $1.1 billion in federal taxes, $687.7 million in state tax revenue and $399.9 million in local tax revenue. During considerations of last year's energy bill, Senator Dole was the lead Republican in the group of Senators who worked to keep offshore drilling out of the final bill. Since 2001, as a member of the House of Representatives, Burr worked with Representative Lois Capps (D-CA) to keep similar language out of energy legislation approved by the House of Representatives. Burr sits on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The final bill that passed the House of Representatives rejected language that would have opened up scientific exploration of the outer continental shelf.
02.11.2005	02.11.05 Burr Announces Additional North Carolina Offices Senator Richard Burr today announced that he will open new U.S. Senate offices in Asheville, Gastonia, Rocky Mount and Wilmington this year. These offices will join the previously opened office in Winston-Salem. "Choosing these locations will ensure that all North Carolinians have access to my office and essential government services," said Burr. "By having offices in Asheville, Gastonia, Rocky Mount, Wilmington and Winston-Salem, constituents from every corner of the state will be able reach me when they need assistance." Senator Burr's North Carolina offices will serve as a resource for all North Carolinians with issues before the Federal government. These duties include assisting those in need of a passport, helping veterans and their families with benefits, assisting senior citizens with Social Security and Medicare needs, providing immigration assistance and helping with any other federal government agency. The specific location of each new office will be announced as each office opens. For more information, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
02.09.2005	02.09.05 Burr to Deliver George Washington’s Farewell Address For his maiden speech in the United States Senate, Senator Richard Burr has been asked to deliver the annual reading of George Washington's Farewell Address. The traditional Address, for which Burr was selected by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and appointed by Vice President Dick Cheney, dates back to 1862. It has been delivered in the Senate annually since 1896. Burr will deliver the Farewell Address on the floor of the United States Senate February 18. The Address has traditionally been delivered on or near George Washington's birthday, February 22, dating back to 1862, when 1,000 Philadelphia residents petitioned Congress to commemorate the 130th anniversary of George Washington's birth. At the conclusion of the reading, which will take an estimated forty-five minutes, Burr will inscribe his name and brief remarks in a black, leather-bound book maintained by the Secretary of the Senate. "The United States Senate is an institution deep in tradition," said Burr, "and I appreciate the opportunity to participate in such an honored part of that tradition." The only other North Carolinian to deliver the Address is Senator Terry Sanford, who delivered Washington's Farewell Address on February 15, 1988. Last year's address was delivered by John Breaux of Louisiana. Other notable Senators to have read the Farewell Address in the past include Senators Henry Cabot Lodge (1898), Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. (1937), Hubert H. Humphrey (1956), Barry Goldwater (1957) and Lloyd Bentsen (1972). For more information on Senator Burr, or the history of George Washington's Farewell Address, go to https://www.burr.senate.gov.
02.08.2005	02.08.05 Burr Chairs First Bioterror Hearing North Carolinians Testify on Needed Changes to Bioshield Law Senator Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate's Bioterrorism Preparedness and Public Health Subcommittee, today chaired the subcommittee's first hearing of the 109th Congress. The hearing centered on the current status and future needs of Bioshield, a law established last year that provides development incentives for new biomedical countermeasures. Specifically, the hearing focused on the development and availability of effective drugs and vaccines to protect against attacks from chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons. "Preparing for possible bioterror attacks is an important part of the War on Terror, and one I've worked on for many years," said Senator Burr. "We've made great progress, but there is more to do. In order to increase the crucial scientific effort in this area, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and research institutions must have incentives to develop necessary drugs and vaccines." As a member of the House of Representatives, Burr sponsored the first House bioterrorism legislation - the Public Health Threats and Emergencies Act of 2000. He also helped create the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 and the Smallpox Emergency Personnel Protection Act of 2003. All were signed into law. Two North Carolinians testified before the subcommittee. Dr. John Abramson is Professor and Chair of the Department of Pediatrics at Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center in Winston-Salem, while George Painter, PhD, is the President and CEO of Chimerix, Inc., headquartered in Durham. The subcommittee, one of four under the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, has jurisdiction over a wide range of bioterrorism and public health issues including BioShield, the Centers for Disease Control, immunizations, infectious diseases, vaccines and the Ryan White CARE Act.
02.03.2005	02.03.05 Burr Named Chairman of Bioterrorism Preparedness and Public Health Subcommittee Senator Richard Burr has been named chairman of the Senate's Bioterrorism Preparedness and Public Health Subcommittee. The subcommittee, one of four under the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, has jurisdiction over a wide range of bioterrorism and public health issues including BioShield, the Centers for Disease Control, immunizations, infectious diseases, vaccines and the Ryan White CARE Act. "As the anthrax and ricin scares showed, preparing for possible bioterror attacks is an important part of the War on Terror," said Senator Burr. "In North Carolina, we've made great strides in our bioterrorism preparedness. The work done in North Carolina in places such as Piedmont-Triad Research Park and Research Triangle Park are examples the entire nation can learn from, and I look forward to highlighting their work." Burr has scheduled the first Bioterrorism Preparedness and Public Health Subcommittee hearing of the 109th Congress for February 8th. The hearing will focus on the current status and future needs of Bioshield, a law established last year that provides development incentives for new biomedical countermeasures. Specifically, the hearing will deal with the development and availability of effective drugs and vaccines to protect against attacks from chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons. "I am looking forward to a very productive session with the HELP Committee and am excited to have Senator Richard Burr on board," said Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Mike Enzi. "His service in the House reflects a strong work ethic for the people of North Carolina, which will serve him well as we roll up our sleeves and get to work on a broad range of issues."
02.03.2005	02.03.05 Statement by Senator Richard Burr on 55th presidential inauguration "On a day important for all Americans, President Bush spoke passionately of the challenges that lie ahead - that these indeed are consequential times that call for swift and decisive action. Clearly, President Bush understands the deep commitment necessary for, not only our security, but allowing freedom to thrive throughout the world. I am hopeful that the passion President Bush has shown to unite our nation takes hold. In the United States Senate, we cannot do great things without reaching across the aisle and working together - and I look forward to the challenges ahead."
02.03.2005	02.03.05 Burr Named Vice-Chairman of Senate Energy Subcommittee Senator Richard Burr was today named Vice-Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Energy. Burr was also named to two additional subcommittees, the National Parks subcommittee and the subcommittee on Water and Power. "It is critical for North Carolina - and the nation - that we approve a comprehensive energy bill, said Burr. "Serving as Vice-Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, I will continue to work towards comprehensive energy legislation to reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy, as well as grow North Carolina's economy." As a member of the House of Representatives, Burr served on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, serving as the Committee's Vice-Chairman for part of his tenure.