03.06.2019	03.06.19 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Congressman Don Young WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor in tribute to Congressman Don Young today, the day that Young officially became the longest continuously-serving Republican in Congress, in both the House and the Senate. He’s consistently ranked among the most effective legislators—just recently ranked the most effective member of Congress by the nonpartisan group, the Center for Effective Lawmaking. In his 46 years in Congress, nearly every project that has advanced modern Alaska has Congressman Young’s fingerprints on it. Senator Sullivan’s remarks were part of his series, “Alaskan of the Week.” Following Senator Sullivan’s remarks, Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), a former House colleague of Don Young, delivered his own tribute to the congressman, concluding with lyrics from Bob Dylan's song, “Forever Young.” Carper’s remarks begin at 12:08 in the video linked below. SENATE FLOOR TRIBUTE TO CONGRESSMAN DON YOUNG Mr. President. It’s Alaskan of the Week time here on the Senate floor. It’s my favorite time of the week to talk about someone who’s made a difference in my state. As you know, Mr. President, and as all the pages know, I try to come down to the floor every week to talk about someone who is in Alaska doing a great job for America, for their community, for the state – in what I believe is the best state in the country. Now, I know we all can debate that. But some of you might take issue a little bit with the characterization of the “best” state. But we certainly have bragging rights on some elements that make us the most unique state in America. For example, right now, the Iditarod—the Last Great race—is underway. Fifty-two mushers, and their dog teams—up to 14 dogs—are barreling 900 miles across the state of Alaska toward Nome in some of the most harsh conditions, difficult and rugged terrain, in the world. That’s just one of many things that makes us unique. We have the Iditarod, the North Lights that dance in the sky. We have communities that still hunt whales to feed their villages. They’ve been doing that for centuries. We have the most fish, the longest coast line. As a matter of fact, our coastline is longer than the rest of the Lower 48 coastline combined. We have the tallest mountain in North America. And, Mr. President, we have a mountain of a Congressman named Don Young! Mr. President. Usually the Alaskans of the Week are reserved for people who aren’t so…visible, who aren’t legends, who maybe are doing something in their community that a lot of people aren’t noticing. But, today, March 6th, 2019, I couldn’t resist. Because Don Young, the Dean of the House, today, has officially become the longest continuously serving Republican in the United States Congress in U.S. history. Let me repeat that: Today, Don Young has become the longest continuously serving Republican in the United States Congress—Senate or House—in the history of the United States of America. He was already here when every single member of Congress was sworn in. Think about that. Every member who’s been sworn in in the Senate or the House, Don Young was here. In fact, according to Roll Call, there are at least 75 members of the House who were not even born when Don Young came to Washington. That is an amazing achievement. He has served Alaska and our country so well for 46 years that it was only right to feature him as our Alaskan of the Week and to make a special Alaskan of the Week poster. So where to begin when we talk about Don Young and the enormous impact he’s had on Alaska and America? Let me start in central California, where he was raised on a small ranch. He began the hard work of ranching young. “My dad was a good man,” Don said. “But he believed that when you turned seven you became a hired man.” He worked sun up to sun down. It was hot. Riddled with snakes and poison ivy. When he was still young, his dad read him the book, “The Call of The Wild,” by Jack London. Alaska sounded really good to Don Young. It was cold, there were lots of dogs, no snakes and no poison ivy. After he got out of the Army in 1959, the year Alaska became a state, he heeded the call of the wild, headed up the ALCAN, much of which was still unpaved, in a brand new Plymouth Fury. Alaska would never be the same. He fought forest fires. He even owned a skating rink for a short time. But the BIA school needed a teacher in Fort Yukon, way up in the Interior on the Yukon River—a place he still to this day calls home, and has a home there. In fact, he jokes that he’s the only Congressman who uses an outhouse when he goes home. Anyway, he went to coach and to teach fifth grade. He became a trapper, a gold miner, a tug boat captain. Eventually, he met Lou, his wife who stayed by his side for 46 years until she passed in 2009. Now, he’s found another partner in Ann. Thank you, Ann, for continuing to share him with us. Don, with Lou’s prompting, caught the political bug. He served in the state House in Alaska, and in the state Senate. He learned some good lessons there, namely that his time in the state Senate taught him that he was more of a House guy—where bills move fast, where elections are right around the corner, no matter what, and where the action is. Along the way, he had two daughters, which to Don are still the most important things in his life. And then Lou talked him into running for Congress. With the help of people like my wife’s grandmother—who was an avid Don Young supporter—he began to introduce himself to a wider audience. Due to a tragic airplane accident that took the life of then Congressman Nick Begich, Don Young was appointed to his seat in 1973. He won the next special election, and because he’s been so effective for our state—he’s passed more than 90 bills—mostly to help Alaska—and because he knows so many of our fellow Alaskans by name, because he’s fiercely loyal, because he’s helped hundreds and hundreds of his fellow Alaskans—since 1973, he’s been reelected every year since. I can’t count how many elections that is, but it’s a lot. He’s consistently ranked among the Congress’ most effective legislators—just recently ranked THE most effective legislator—number one—by the nonpartisan group, the Center for Effective Lawmaking. Heck, even in his freshman year, Ralph Nader said that he was the most powerful congressman in the Congress. And I imagine that he came to that conclusion with some trepidation. But you won’t hear Don Young talk much about these things, Mr. President. He doesn’t like to brag. He’s a humble man. So, let me do a little bragging on his behalf. Nearly everything, and I mean everything, that has advanced in Alaska legislatively, has Don Young’s fingerprints on it. From the Trans-Alaska pipeline, to the Ketchikan Shipyard, to the many, many land exchanges—kind of like what we did here recently on the Senate floor under Senator Murkowski’s—leadership to the health clinics dotting our state, to the state-of-the-art Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage, Don Young has played a critical part in all of this. He’s tenacious. Don Young in the House, and Senator Murkowski and I here in the Senate. Just last year, last Congress, we finally, after 40 years, got ANWR opened in terms of the ability for responsible resource development—the 1002 Area of our state. One of his biggest victories, Mr. President, was the role he played in the Magnuson Stevens Act, which transformed the American fishing industry. Among other things, the act created a 200-mile limit to keep foreign fishermen from plundering our fish and to sustain our fisheries. It wasn’t easy to get that bill passed through Congress. But Congressman Young worked it on the House side. Ted Stevens, of course, worked it in the Senate. After it passed Congress, he still wasn’t finished. President Ford was considering vetoing this legislation. His Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, thought it would raise tensions with key allies, especially Japan and Korea. Because they fished right off the shores of Alaska—three miles! And we pushed them out to 200 miles with this legislation. On Air Force One, in 1974, I believe, on the way to Asia, with a stop-over in Alaska, Don Young, the new congressman debated one of the smartest guys in Washington, Henry Kissinger, in front of President Ford on whether or not the Magnuson-Stevens Act, which would transform our fisheries, should be vetoed. Kissinger argued it should, Don Young argued that it shouldn’t. Well, guess who won that debate on Air Force One? Legend has it that at the end, Henry Kissinger and Don Young met for a martini after the debate that Don Young won. They’re still remain good friends today. Mr. President, that’s just another example. Don Young has been good friends with presidents, has discussed the issues of the day with some of the most important people in the world. Through it all, he’s never lost his fundamental goodness, sense of fair play, and honor—and his willingness to reach across the aisle to help another member. And he’s never forgotten who he works for. He works for the people of Alaska, and he’s remained a man of the people since he was elected. He has never, not for a second, lost his love for our great state. He could have done anything, but he chose to stay year after year, decade after decade, to serve the people of our state, and the people of America. He said recently, “Every day I try to do something for somebody and some group. And every day I try to learn something new. We all go into ground the same way. The only thing we leave behind are our accomplishments.” Well. He’s notched numerous accomplishments, and he’s far from finished. And if I had my guess, I’d also say he’s far from finished with some of his famous theatrics too: brandishing walrus parts and steel traps on the floor of the House, maybe an altercation or two with colleagues that may involve a sharp weapon, campaign commercials that border on the humorous. Don Young is not finished speaking his mind, and giving us his heart. It has been an honor to serve our great state next to this historic figure. So, Congressman Young, for your service, your mentorship and your friendship with me. Thank you for all you’ve done for all of us in Alaska and America. Congratulations on being the longest-serving Republican in the Congress in U.S. history today. And, even more important, thank you and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. # # #
03.06.2019	03.06.19 Sullivan Discusses the “Green New Deal” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke today on the Senate floor regarding the “Green New Deal,” a version of which was introduced as a resolution in the House and Senate last month, and the impact that resource development has had on the health and well-being of Alaskans. Senator Sullivan’s full remarks are included below. SENATE FLOOR REMARKS Mr. President. First, I want to thank all of my colleagues for coming down here and having this important discussion. And I want to thank my Democratic colleagues, who I have a lot of respect for, for being here and having this debate. I’m sure it’s not going to be the first time that we’re going to be doing this on the Green New Deal or other elements of proposals coming from the House or in the Senate. This is a big issue, what’s happening in the House and what’s going to happen over here with some of our colleagues. I think in many ways this is an issue that focuses on the future of where the country is going. As the Majority Leader recently said in an interview: “I can pretty safely say this is the first time in my political career that I thought the essence of America was being debated.” Socialism, democratic capitalism – okay, let’s have that debate. We’re having that debate. What is the essence of America, Mr. President? I believe it’s freedom and liberty. That’s what we were founded on, and that’s what I think proposals like the Green New Deal would undermine. To be clear: some people are joking about it—about banning hamburgers or airplanes, or returning to the horse and buggy—but I think there are many people who are looking at this very seriously, and so we should. Some of these ideas can be funny until they’re not funny. So what we’re trying to do here today is to talk about this proposal in a serious manner and, in my state—the great state of Alaska—in a deadly serious manner. There’s so much that is in this idea, the Green New Deal—a government takeover of health care, free housing, free food. The list goes on and on. The costs, as many have pointed out, are very high. But today, Mr. President, what I want to do is talk about one aspect that would be particularly detrimental to my state and many other states—my colleagues from West Virginia, North Dakota, they’re here on the floor—and that’s this proposal to ban hydrocarbons produced in America within a decade. This is not a joke. There are many members in this body, some of whom are on the floor right now, and in the House, who think this is a serious proposal and would like to do it. So I want to talk about that. Mr. President, I want to stipulate that I’m certainly someone who’s in favor of “all of the above” energy. The fact that America is now producing more oil, more gas, more renewables than any other country in the world is good for all of us – Democrat, Republican. My colleague from Rhode Island is here. He and I have worked on a whole host of issues together involving oceans. I think that technological advances with regard to gas—hundreds of years of supplies of natural gas, with technology, with renewables—provide huge opportunities for Democrats and Republicans to work together and to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. Enormous. We’re just scratching the surface. I look forward to working with him and the senator from Massachusetts on these kinds of ideas, because I think they’re exciting and when you’re burning natural gas at very high temperatures, you have very little greenhouse gas emissions. Combine that with technology, renewables. We have hundreds of years of these supplies. It’s a great opportunity, exciting, and I want to work with them. But let me get back to the proposal in the Green New Deal on natural resources. In my opinion, we do not spend enough time on this floor talking about the positive, societal benefits of natural resource development in America: oil, gas, renewables, fisheries. These industries don’t just fuel our power generation and transportation, and electricity for our homes—these industries literally lift people out of poverty. They lengthen life expectancy. They literally save lives. Mr. President, there is a strong correlation between poverty and lack of economic opportunity and the health of our citizens. I’m going to show a few charts here. This correlation is particularly strong in my state with our Alaska Native population. In 1954, the Interior Department, with the help of the University of Pittsburgh, conducted a study of the health of Alaska Natives. Here’s the quote: “The indigenous peoples of Native Alaska are the victims of sickness, crippling conditions and premature death to a degree exceeded in very few parts of the world.” Some of the poorest people on the planet were my constituents—in Alaska, in America—in 1954. More than ten years later, in 1969, just 50 years ago, the situation was still dire. Here’s what Emil Notti, the President of the Alaska Federation of Natives told Congress in 1969: “The native people in rural Alaska live in the most miserable homes in the United States... The average life expectancy of the native is 34 years versus 69 years for the rest of the United States.” So what happened after that, Mr. President? We had a big change—we’re not there yet—but a big change, and I want to explain it. Here is a chart from a study in the Journal of Internal Medicine that was published in 2018 about the life expectancy of Americans. Where you see blue and purple is where Americans’ life expectancy increased the most. The state with the greatest change in the entire country was my state. That’s a pretty important statistic, by the way, life expectancy. It doesn’t get any more important than that—are you living longer? Look what happened in Alaska. The North Slope of Alaska, the Aleutian Island Chain, Southeast, all experience huge increases in life expectancy from these very low levels, some of the lowest in the world. Mr. President, why did that happen? Here’s why that happened: On the North Slope of Alaska, this Congress passed the Trans Alaska Pipeline Act to develop Prudhoe Bay, to develop oil and gas, some of the biggest fields in the world. We also had a very large zinc mine at the same time that came into production. We also had, because of this body’s Magnuson-Stevens Act, a huge increase in our fisheries. Bottom line: natural resource development happened in Alaska and America, and people’s lives increased. That is a remarkable thing. We don’t talk about it enough. The average life expectancy increase in Alaska was between eight and thirteen years. That is a measure of success, and it came because we were developing our resources—oil and gas. That’s why I am taking this Green New Deal deadly seriously. Because, what we’ve done in our state and in our country by producing resources is create the ability of people to actually live longer. I challenge my colleagues to come up with a better, more important statistic than that. Mr. President, I’m going to end with a quote from a gentleman who came down here and testified in front of the Senate, Matthew Rexford, a proud Alaska Native leader from Kaktovik, Alaska, which is in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. He came down here to testify that Congress should give his small community the opportunity to develop the resources near his village. And we did that in 2017 after a 40-year debate. He spoke firsthand about his knowledge about what resource development did for America, for Alaska, and for his community. “The oil and gas industry supports our communities by providing jobs, business opportunities and infrastructure investments. It has built our schools, hospitals, and has moved our people away from third-world living conditions – we refuse to go backward in time.” That’s what he said, Mr. President. I believe the Green New Deal, certainly its ban on hydrocarbon production, would take us back in time. For the sake of Matthew and all of the Alaskans who’ve done so well by responsibly developing our resources, we’re not going to allow that to happen. # # #
03.06.2019	03.06.19 Sullivan Supports Abizaid Nomination as U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) delivered introductory remarks before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today at the confirmation hearing of retired Army General John Abizaid, nominated to be the next U.S. ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. From 2005-2006, Senator Sullivan was recalled to active duty by the U.S. Marine Corps and served as a staff officer to General Abizaid during his tenure as the longest serving commander of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) in history. Below are Senator Sullivan’s remarks in full: Chairman Risch, Ranking Member Menendez, it’s truly an honor for me to come before the committee today on behalf of my friend, and a great American, General John Abizaid, U.S. Army Ret., to support his confirmation to be U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I know you have all had the opportunity to review his resume. I know a few of you have already talked to General Abizaid, but what I wanted to do is highlight a few important elements of his personal background and experience that I have seen firsthand. After graduating from West Point, General Abizaid began his distinguished Army career in 1973 as an infantry platoon leader. He rose to the rank of four-star general and was the longest serving commander of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) – an area of responsibility spanning that, at the time, he commanded more than 4 million square miles from the Horn of Africa, Egypt, the Arabian Peninsula, Iraq, Afghanistan, to South and Central Asia. As he rose through the ranks, he always kept his mind sharp. He achieved a master’s degree in Middle Eastern studies from Harvard University. He was an Olmstead Scholar at the University of Jordan in Amman. After 34 years of service to his nation, he retired from the U.S. military in 2007 and is now a fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution. In 2005, I was a major in the Marine Corps Reserve recalled to active duty to spend close to a year and a half as a staff officer for General Abizaid when he was the CENTCOM commander. I was pretty much with him everywhere in the world during that time – Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt, central Asia and, yes, Yemen and Saudi Arabia. It was a difficult time in the region, especially in Iraq. What I witnessed day in and day out is everything you would want in an American general and an American public servant serving our country. A man of the highest integrity. A warrior. A scholar. An intellectual. A truly tested leader and yes, a diplomat, who, during his time in the military, garnered the deep respect of the leadership at the State Department due to his keen understanding of the culture and politics of the region for which he was responsible. There are few people in our country who understand the cross-currents of U.S. interests, challenges, and history in the Middle East more than John Abizaid. He commands trust and respect from those around him, those who’ve served with him. I remember watching in amazement several times as a staff officer when he had meetings with leaders in the region – all over the region – whether it was kings or prime ministers, or colonels and generals – where he would begin the meetings speaking in Arabic. General Abizaid speaks Arabic, by the way. Another element of his distinguished background. This kind of credibility and trust was so critical in the region. He’s also a man with a great sense of humor and a sharp wit. I remember a time when I was outside his office in Iraq waiting for him. The other individual waiting for him was also a Marine Corps major. General Abizaid had just had a meeting with four-star Army General Barry McCaffrey. General McCaffrey walked out, looked at the two Marine majors and said: “John, what’s with these Marines hanging around your office?” To which the general responded: “I like hanging out with Marines – it makes me feel smart.” General Abizaid is a classic example of an American patriot willing to serve his country for all the right reasons. He didn’t seek this nomination for attention or recognition – he was sought out by the administration because of his extensive experience and knowledge of the U.S.-Saudi relationship and the issues in the Middle East. He accepted President Trump’s nomination because he knows that, at this point in time, it is important to have someone skilled to navigate such a multifaceted relationship in this very important but challenging region. And, yes, the U.S.-Saudi relationship is indeed complex. I know there is a lot of debate in this chamber on pressing foreign policy challenges in the Middle East (as it relates to Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and Iran) and I’m sure you’ll ask him hard but fair questions. But here is an issue over which I think there should be no debate: we need a highly qualified ambassador in Riyadh – and we need that person there soon. I don’t think there has been a nominee before this committee, who is so uniquely qualified and well equipped to manage the relationship of the post for which he has been nominated. John Abizaid will serve his country as he always has: with integrity, honor and distinction. I urge you to support his nomination and move to confirm him as soon as possible. Thank you. # # #
03.01.2019	03.01.19 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Jean Pollard of Anchorage WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Anchorage resident and educator, Jean Pollard. Through sheer tenacity, Ms. Pollard has brought to the forefront the story of the African American Army Engineers of the 93rd, 95th, and 97th Regiments who were in the U.S. Army during World War II and stationed in Alaska. More than 3,000 of these brave soldiers were integral in building the Alaska-Canada (ALCAN) Highway, one of the 20th century's greatest engineering feats. Among other efforts to publicize the role of the African American Army Engineers in building the ALCAN, Ms. Pollard has been instrumental in making sure that it is now taught in schools across Alaska. Senator Sullivan recognized Ms. Pollard as part of his series, “Alaskan of the Week.” SENATE FLOOR TRIBUTE TO JEAN POLLARD Mr. President, as you know, I try to come down to the floor every week to talk about someone in my State who is making a big difference in Alaska, a big difference in their country, and a big difference in what I believe is the best State in this country. That is just my opinion. I am sure the Presiding Officer thinks his State is the best in the country, but that is why we are all here in the Senate. Of course, Alaska is beautiful, particularly now as the snow is on the ground and the Sun is out. It is back out and high in the sky. It is also nearly time for the Iditarod--the last great race--something, I am sure, Senator Murkowski and I will be talking about on the floor in the coming weeks. It kicks off this weekend. We know it is a beautiful and amazing State, but what really makes Alaska such a great place are the people--the people who work tirelessly for causes they believe in. Many people don't know this, but Alaska is also incredibly diverse. In fact, Anchorage--my hometown and the State's largest city--is home to the country's three most diverse census tracks, racially and in terms of nationalities. By the way, the fourth is Queens, NY. I will just give you an example. Last week, we had this great event called Bridge Builders. It was in Anchorage. There were all of these different ethnic communities in Anchorage coming together. I spent a lot of time there on Saturday. We are very proud of our diversity. We are proud that more than 100 languages are spoken in our schools. Think about that if you want to talk about diversity. We are proud of the foods and the cultural events. We are proud of the unique tapestry that makes up Alaska. We are very proud of our history, and we are also blessed to have people who work diligently for all of us to keep history alive. I can think of no better way to cap off Black History Month than to recognize someone who, for years, has been fiercely determined to unearth a very important part of Alaska's history--actually, a very important part of America's history--one that transpired in my State but that greatly influenced our Nation during a very critical time. I want to introduce you to Ms. Jean Pollard. She is our Alaskan of the Week. Jean has brought back the story of the African-American Army Engineers of the 93rd, 95th, and 97th regiments who were in the U.S. Army during World War II and stationed in Alaska during World War II. More than 3,000 of these brave soldiers were integral in Alaska in building what we call the Alcan Highway--the Alaska-Canada Highway--one of the 20th century's greatest engineering feats. Let me tell you about Ms. Pollard. Now a retired schoolteacher, she grew up in Georgia. When she was a teenager, her father, who was in the Army, got transferred to Alaska. Like all Alaskan students--like our good students, our pages in the Senate--she took a class on her State's history--Alaska history--in high school. During the class, she learned about how the Army built the Alcan Highway in 1942 to help defend Alaska and America from invasion by Japan. A lot of people don't know this. Yes, Alaska was invaded and occupied by the Japanese military during World War II in the Aleutian Islands. I am going to talk about that a little bit more. She learned about this in high school. It was a good story, but the most important element she was taught in high school was actually left out. The highway was only able to be finished because of the more than 3,000 African-American soldiers who built it. So after getting a master's degree in education and a minor in history and after being a teacher for decades, Ms. Pollard only learned the entire story herself when she was sitting home one Friday night watching a PBS documentary about the building of this incredible highway. What did she learn? Again, let's go back in time. It is March 1942, 3 months after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. As the war effort was heating up, construction began on a 1,700-mile-long vital link connecting the great State of Alaska--it wasn't a State then; it was a territory--to the lower 48 for the war effort. Soon a massive mobilization followed--about 10,000 Army troops. Huge trucks, civil engineers, food, tents, you name it, were deployed to start building this road. Then, in June 1942, the Japanese invaded Attu and Kiska Islands in the Aleutian Islands chain of Alaska, adding a new sense of urgency to the completion of the road. These soldiers worked day and night--200 bridges, 800 culverts, through some of the most rugged terrain on planet Earth, mountains, rivers, no rest, hard, backbreaking work--and they were able to complete this 1,700-mile road that still exists today--some of you may have driven it--in less than a year. When the road was being built, the military was still segregated, and African Americans in the Army--much like in the rest of the country--were treated as second-class citizens. They were assigned to the toughest jobs on this project, using the worst equipment. In the summer, it was full of mosquitoes, black flies, mud, and swamps. Winter comes early in Alaska. According to the historian, Lael Morgan, the winter of 1942 was considered one of the worst winters on record since 1906 in terms of how cold it was--and, trust me, it gets cold in Alaska--and how much snow there was. The Black troops were required to build winter barracks for the White soldiers, while the African-American troops lived in tents. When the snow fell, they couldn't get supplies, and some nearly starved to death, Lael wrote. It is reported that some even succumbed to injuries due to the cold--fatalities due to the cold. They did so much of the hard work. However, the contribution of these great African-American soldiers and heroes were completely almost scrubbed from all of the history books. Nobody that Ms. Pollard spoke to--social studies teachers or history professors--knew anything about this history. In Ms. Pollard's words: ``They stole that history.'' The history books wouldn't write it. It was wrong, and she knew she had to make it right so she went to work. As a teacher herself and a lifelong learner, she knew that bringing the story to the school system was key to keeping our history alive--accurate history. Eventually, she called the historian I spoke about, Lael Morgan--a former Alaskan who was then living in Maine and happened to be featured in that documentary that Ms. Pollard watched on that Friday evening. Lael decided to help in a big way. Incredibly, a year later, she sold her house in Maine and headed up the Alcan Highway to Alaska. Together, and with the help of a team of others Ms. Pollard recruited, they amassed enough material to give to the school system to set the history right. Now schools across Alaska are putting this story--this real story--into their curriculum, and now she is trying to get it required as part of a course that the university students in Alaska who are studying education have to take. She and her team put calls out across the internet for anyone who was involved in or had a relative involved in building the highway. She was able to track down three members of the African-American Army Engineers who were still alive. She flew to interview one of the soldiers who was 100 years old. Another one, who lives in Louisiana, traveled to Alaska in 2017 for the 75th anniversary of the highway's completion. Recently, Ms. Pollard mentioned the names of the soldiers she spoke to back then. There was a soldier from Virginia, SGT Reginald Beverly, who, unfortunately, has now passed away. The soldier in Louisiana who came to Alaska in 2017 is Private Leonard Larkins. He has 10 children. The Alaska Highway Project will be bringing him and his three sons back to Alaska on August 3 to help him celebrate his 99th birthday. I am in the process of drafting a Senate resolution to recognize all of the members of the African-American Army Engineers who helped build the Alcan Highway, which was so critical to protecting our Nation and Alaska. Ms. Pollard describes herself as feisty. Others might describe her as fiercely determined. When the Alaska State Legislature, at her urging, passed a resolution commemorating these African-American soldiers who built one of the greatest engineering highways in the world, she was sitting behind some of the State legislators. She heard one whisper to another: Have you met this Jean Pollard? The other said: Yes, she calls me several times a day about this bill. Julie and I were just with Ms. Pollard this past weekend, as I mentioned, at the Bridge Builder event in Anchorage--my wife Julie and I. She is very passionate, very persuasive, and we are very proud of her. Ms. Pollard and the team that created the Alaska Highway Memorial Project are on another mission to erect a memorial in a park in Anchorage. They have the design, and they certainly have the will with her driving it, and I have no doubt they will get it done to memorialize this great engineering feat by American heroes who were not treated well by their country. Like the story of how Ms. Pollard brought important history back to our State, the story of building the Alcan and of the civil rights in the military also has an uplifting message. On October 25, 1942, less than 8 months after they started, two soldiers, one African American and one White, shook hands after completing this highway. Six years later, President Harry S. Truman ordered the Army desegregated, 16 years before the passage of the Civil Rights Act. Many historians now cite the work and the experience on this Alcan Highway project, and the African-American soldiers and White soldiers working together on a really difficult challenge, as also helping make that possible--civil rights, 16 years later. The Federal Highway Administration calls the Alcan Highway the road to civil rights. Isn't that a great depiction? So, Ms. Pollard, thank you and your team for bringing that history back to us. I am proud to have talked a little bit about that important history for Alaska and America on the floor of the U.S. Senate. Congratulations for being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. # # #
03.01.2019	03.01.19 Sullivan, Klobuchar, Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Address the Shortage of Affordable, Quality Child Care The Child Care Workforce and Facilities Act would provide competitive grants to states to train child care workers and build or renovate child care facilities in areas with child care shortages WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced the Child Care Workforce and Facilities Act to address the national shortage of affordable, quality child care, especially in rural communities. While many families struggle to find access to available child care, states are continuing to experience a noticeable decline in the number of child care providers, leading to the expansion of “child care deserts.” In the House of Representatives, a companion bill was introduced by Representatives Collin Peterson (D-MN) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA). “We need a greater focus on helping parents succeed in the workplace while their children receive quality, affordable care,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “I hear repeatedly from working Alaska parents that the lack of affordable childcare is among their top concerns, and those concerns are overwhelmingly confirmed by the data. Unfortunately, this problem disproportionately impacts mothers striving to re-enter the workforce. This legislation, which I have introduced with Senator Klobuchar, will help by offering grants focused on states hardest hit like ours to enhance workforce development among child care professionals, and improve facilities that serve families in child care deserts, particularly in our rural communities.” “Affordable, quality child care must be available to every family. Child care shortages across the country pose a moral and financial issue for communities when parents are forced to decide between working and staying at home with their children,” Senator Klobuchar said. “Our bipartisan Child Care Workforce and Facilities Act will help ensure that every family has good options available to them when planning for their careers and their children.” The Child Care Workforce and Facilities Act would: Help to address the shortage of affordable child care and qualified child care professionals in Alaska. Provide competitive grants to states to support (1) the education, training, or retention of the child care workforce or (2) building, renovating, or expanding child care facilities in areas with child care shortages; and Require applicants to address how their projects would: Increase the availability and affordability of quality child care, including during nontraditional hours. Help workers obtain portable, stackable credentials to foster increased mobility and opportunities for advancement in child care careers. Enhance retention or compensation of quality child care professionals. Facts about childcare in Alaska: Nearly 1 in 4 children in Alaska is left without access to licensed child care when their parent or parents go to work. One of the larger gaps in child care supply is in Anchorage, where 4 in 5 infants and toddlers may not have access to licensed child care in while their mothers are at work. The average cost of infant care in Alaska is more than the annual cost of college tuition at a four year college. Quote from Mark Shriver, CEO of Save the Children Action Network (SCAN): "With more than half our nation's families living in a child care desert, we are facing a child care supply issue and the demand is too high and too costly to ignore,”said Mark Shriver, CEO of Save the Children Action Network. “As a leading champion for young children, SCAN applauds Senators Klobuchar and Sullivan and Representatives Peterson and Herrera Beutler for their leadership on this issue. This legislation will ensure that more parents can enter or remain in the workforce while knowing their children are enrolled in the type of quality child care that lays a strong foundation for their future success.” # # #
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Blumenthal, Boozman, Sullivan, Hirono & Brown Introduce the Reach Every Veteran In Crisis Act Bipartisan Reach Every Veteran in Crisis Act would require VA to improve the operation, oversight, and evaluation of its suicide prevention media outreach campaigns. [WASHINGTON, D.C.] – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) led U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) in introducing legislation that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to improve the operation, oversight, and evaluation of its suicide prevention media outreach campaigns. The Reach Every Veteran in Crisis Act adopts several recommendations from the Government Accountability Office (GAO), which reported in December 2018 that the VA’s suicide prevention outreach activities had “dropped off in 2017 and 2018.” Blumenthal, Boozman, Sullivan, Hirono, and Brown are all members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “The Department of Veterans Affairs has a moral obligation to fight the scourge of veteran suicide with all the resources Congress has authorized, an obligation it is failing to meet with fatal consequences,” said Blumenthal. “VA must replace rhetoric with meaningful action and address the significant shortfalls in their suicide prevention media outreach campaigns. This bill provides an action plan to hold VA accountable for ensuring all veterans and their families are aware of the support services available during their time of need.” The December 2018 GAO report Improvements Needed in Suicide Prevention Media Outreach Campaign Oversight and Evaluation, found that VA had failed to establish targets to evaluate the efficacy of its campaigns, that leadership turnover led to a dramatic decline in media outreach activities; and that VA spent $1.5 million of their $6.2 million budget for suicide prevention media outreach in Fiscal Year 2018. This astonishing report came even as the VA’s “highest clinical priority” is preventing veteran suicide and an average of 20 veterans die by suicide daily. Blumenthal has been a champion of veteran suicide prevention for many years. Beginning in 2014, Blumenthal partnered with the late-U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) to introduce and champion the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act to improve and modernize suicide prevention programs and ensure that VA is held accountable for providing quality, effective mental health care. The bill was signed into law in 2015. “Many of our brave men and women in uniform return home with unseen wounds of war – internal struggles that too often lead to suicide,” said Sullivan. “As an officer in the Marine Corps, both on active duty and in the reserves, I have personally witnessed these struggles – at times tragic – that some of our servicemen and women undergo. This legislation will make sure that the VA’s mental health and suicide prevention efforts are effectively targeting those vulnerable populations in the veteran community.” “The VA has indicated that suicide prevention is its highest clinical priority and, with the alarming number of suicides in the veteran community, it absolutely must be. Congress is appropriating resources and the VA is turning that into action, but the numbers continue to trend in the wrong direction. This is why it is vital that we have metrics to measure the effectiveness of the VA’s mental health and suicide prevention programs. This bill will help Congress and the VA isolate meaningful suicide prevention programs so we can ensure resources are focused on efforts that save lives,” said Boozman. “It is unacceptable that every day in this country we lose 20 veterans to suicide. Yet, despite this high number, the VA is not properly managing important resources allocated by Congress to combat this serious issue. With veterans’ lives on the line, we must hold the VA accountable for the decline in its prevention outreach initiatives,” said Hirono. “The GAO made specific recommendations for the VA to improve, and I am proud to introduce this legislation that will hold the VA’s feet to the fire and improve oversight of their suicide prevention media campaign.” “Even one veteran losing his or her life to suicide is too many,” said Brown. “Our servicemembers and veterans bravely stepped up and answered the call to serve. They deserve meaningful action from Congress and the Administration to ensure they have the resources and healthcare they need to prevent another life lost to suicide.” The Reach Every Veteran in Crisis Act requires that the Department of Veterans Affairs: Establish targets—based on industry-standard metrics such as impressions and engagement rate—to evaluate the efficacy of its mental health and suicide prevention outreach campaigns Create a process to oversee VA’s suicide prevention media outreach campaigns. Submit a report on expenditures and obligations of funds of VHA’s Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention to the House and Senate Veterans Affairs Committees and Appropriations Committees. Ensure all future contracts regarding mental health and suicide prevention outreach include a clause that the contractor must track metrics established by the Secretary and report these metrics to the Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention. A pdf of the bill is available here. ###
02.26.2019	02.26.19 Sullivan, Udall, Ruiz, Wenstrup Introduce Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation to Strengthen Burn Pit Registry Bill would create more effective registry to help determine full health impacts of burn pits and develop health care treatments for veterans WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) and U.S. Representatives Raul Ruiz (D-Calif.) and Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio) introduced bipartisan legislation, the Burn Pit Registry Enhancement Act, to strengthen and enhance the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) registry of service members and veterans who were exposed to toxic chemicals and fumes from open-air burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan. As early as 2002, U.S. military installations in Afghanistan and Iraq began to rely on open-air burn pits to dispose of waste materials. The Airborne Hazards and Burn Pit Registry – first established under 2013 legislation authored by Udall and former U.S. Senator Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) – helps veterans, doctors, and the VA monitor veterans' health, keep them informed about studies and treatments, and improve programs to help veterans who are concerned that they may have been exposed to toxic chemicals while they were deployed. The bipartisan Burn Pit Registry Enhancement Act legislation would ensure that the burn pit registry is updated with the cause of death of registered individuals, allowing for a more comprehensive understanding of the health of individuals on the registry, including if any of their health complications or cause of death were the result of burn pit exposure. This important information will better enable the registry to support research into the range of health impacts from burn pits that emitted toxic compounds and develop appropriate health care responses for veterans to improve their lives. “As one of the first members of Congress to champion the creation of the national re gistry, I’m committed to strengthening and building on our efforts to better understand how burn pit exposure has affected veterans’ health,” said Udall. “Many of our servicemen and women were exposed to toxic fumes and chemicals from burn pits while serving our country overseas. Some, like Master Sergeant Jessey Baca of New Mexico, have courageously battled illnesses that they can trace to that exposure. This bill is a crucial and straight forward next step to enhance the burn pit registry, helping us to gather more information so that veterans can receive the answers they deserve and the medical treatment they have earned.” “Open burn pits have emerged as an insidious danger to the well-being of our brave service members years after their wartime service,” said Sullivan. “We must keep veterans and their loved ones acquainted with research into the hazards posed by toxic airborne chemicals and the medical developments that could help protect them from serious illnesses. As a member of both the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services Committees, I’m pleased to cosponsor legislation that enhances this important registry, so our men and women in uniform are able to return to a healthy and safe civilian life.” “Our veterans who have been exposed to burn pits deserve to know how their exposure may affect their health, and one of our best tools for making that determination is the burn pit registry,” said Dr. Ruiz. “For too long, our government has turned a blind eye to veterans like my constituent Jennifer Kepner, whose entry in the registry still does not reflect her cause of death: pancreatic cancer that most probably is a result of her exposure to burn pits. I will keep fighting to protect the health of our servicemembers and veterans, and get them the health care and benefits they have earned and deserve.” “As an Iraq war veteran and a doctor, I understand the impacts of war are far-reaching. They go beyond battle injuries and can arise later in life to the detriment of the veteran and his or her family. In order for the VA to understand how exposure to burn pits impacted servicemembers, they must maintain an accurate and complete registry. This legislation will ensure appropriate records are kept so we can determine the best course of action to assist those with service related illnesses,” said Wenstrup, Co-Chair of the Burn Pit Caucus. The Burn Pit Registry Enhancement Act would: Ensure that the burn pit registry may be updated with the cause of death of a registered individual; Allow a designated individual or immediate family member to report the cause of death of a registered individual; Provide a process by which a registered individual may make a designation regarding who is to make the report to the registry on their behalf; Previously, Udall, along with former U.S. Senator Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) authored and championed the bipartisan Burn Pits Registry Act, which was signed into law in 2013, to establish a national registry to help patients, doctors and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) determine to what extent air pollution caused by open air burn pits has led to medical diseases among service members. ###
02.21.2019	02.21.19 Tester, Sullivan, Udall, Murkowski Team Up to Improve VA Outreach to Native American Veterans Senators’ Bipartisan Bill Establishes a VA Advisory Committee on Tribal and Indian Affairs WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) are teaming up to improve the VA’s outreach, health care and benefits for Native Americans. The Senators introduced the bipartisan VA Tribal Advisory Committee Act to establish a VA Advisory Committee on Tribal and Indian Affairs. The Committee will facilitate communication and understanding between the VA and Tribal governments to better address the unique barriers Native American veterans face when accessing VA services. “Native Americans have served our nation in uniform at a historically high rate, but many Native American veterans face barriers and roadblocks to the care and benefits they earned,” said Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Our bipartisan bill will improve the collaboration and communication between tribes and the VA and make sure Native American veterans have a voice in crafting solutions that work best for all veterans living in Indian Country.” “Last fall, Secretary Wilkie and I hosted a productive roundtable with Native veterans on the health care and access challenges impacting this special, patriotic group in Alaska and across the country,” said Senator Sullivan. “I’m pleased to have used these ideas and suggestions to shape this legislation that will give greater voice to a community with a proud history of bravely answering the call to serve, even during the darker times in our nation’s history.” “Native veterans in New Mexico and across Indian Country who put their lives on the line deserve not just our gratitude but unbarred access to the VA services we promised them,” said Udall, Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. “This bipartisan legislation to establish a VA Advisory Committee on Tribal and Indian Affairs will promote meaningful government-to-government consultation with Tribes and will create solutions to ensure VA programs work for all Native veterans.” “America’s first people have served America in distinction in every conflict for the past two centuries. Yet, it seems it is only in this past decade that the VA has been paying special attention to the needs of Native veterans, many of whom live in the most remote corners of the country, hundreds of miles from the nearest VA facility—places like Bethel, Fort Yukon, Kotzebue, Nome and Utqiagvik, Alaska,” said Murkowski. “Out of respect for the government-to-government relationship between the VA and our nation’s tribes, it is appropriate that Native people have a seat at the table as the VA establishes its service priorities.” The Senators’ VA Tribal Advisory Committee Act will establish a 15-member Committee comprised of a representative from each of the 12 regions of the Indian Health Service and three at-large Native American members. At least half of the Committee members must be veterans. The Committee will facilitate communication between the VA and Tribal governments, meet face-to-face with the VA Secretary to provide guidance on Tribal and Indian Affairs, and report to Congress its recommendations for legislation to improve Native American veterans’ access to VA health care and benefits. The National Indian Health Board and National Congress of American Indians support the Senators’ VA Tribal Advisory Committee Act. “The National Indian Health Board is pleased to see legislation introduced to help honor the government-to-government relationship between Tribes and the Department of Veterans Affairs,” said Andrew Joseph Jr., NIHB Board Member and U.S. Army veteran. “The Tribal Advisory Committee Act is an important first step in facilitating meaningful consultation between the Tribes and the VA. This will help fulfill the federal government’s obligation to provide health care to those who have earned our highest respect with their sacrifice – Native Veterans. NIHB looks forward to working with the bill’s sponsors as it moves through Congress.” “Our tribal nations have always held our citizens that serve in the highest esteem,” said Jefferson Keel, President of the National Congress of American Indians and retired U.S. Army Officer. “Too often our American Indian and Alaska Native veterans have difficulty accessing the benefits they earned through their military service. The Department of Veterans Affairs Tribal Advisory Committee Act will help eliminate barriers that prevent our Native veterans from accessing those benefits.” Full text of the VA Tribal Advisory Committee Act can be read online HERE. ###
02.20.2019	02.20.19 ICYMI: Congress Funds First Polar Icebreaker in Four Decades WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) applauded the Senate’s passage of a major appropriations package last week that includes $655 million dedicated to the design and construction of a new heavy polar security cutter, $20 million to acquire long lead-time materials for a second polar security cutter, and $400 million for offshore patrol cutters and $340 million for fast response cutters, six of which will be based in Alaska. Additionally, the bill provides $53 million for shore-side infrastructure facilities in Alaska to support the new cutters, with $22 million going to Kodiak and $31 million to Seward. “After years of advocating for the federal government to take America’s role as an Arctic nation seriously, we have finally secured substantial resources for our country to strengthen its position in the region with a brand-new icebreaker,” said Senator Sullivan. “With this appropriation, Congress and the Trump administration are acknowledging that Alaska is America’s Arctic, a fact that is important to our broader national security interests. I was glad to have the opportunity to use my leadership role on the Commerce and Armed Services Committees, in conjunction with Senator Murkowski’s work on the Appropriations Committee, to secure America’s first new polar icebreaker in a generation and the needs of the Coast Guard in Alaska." # # #
02.14.2019	02.14.19 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Barr as Attorney General WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after voting in support of William Barr to be the next Attorney General of the United States. “William Barr is one of the most-qualified candidates ever to be nominated as Attorney General, having served honorably in the same position in the George H.W. Bush administration,” said Senator Sullivan. “Alaskans can take heart in knowing Mr. Barr is a firm, unwavering supporter of our Second Amendment rights and understands the unique legal issues important to Alaska and the Alaska Native community. I was honored to cast my vote to confirm our next Attorney General.” BACKGROUND: On February 7, 2019, Senator Sullivan met with William Barr, and announced his support for his nomination. To read Senator Sullivan’s statement, CLICK HERE. ###
02.13.2019	02.13.19 Sullivan at Military Privatization Housing Oversight Hearing: “We Need to Fix the Program for Today and for the Future” WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Senate Readiness and Management Support Subcommittee, joined with the Senate Personnel Subcommittee to receive testimony from military family members, companies, and the Department of Defense on the current condition of privatized military housing, the problems military families have had to grapple with, and solutions to ensure military families have the best possible housing. The hearing comes on the heels of recent news reports spotlighting military service members and their families living in degrading on-base military housing that is operated by private contractors. In the lead-up to the hearing, the Senate Armed Services Committee received dozens of emails and calls from all corners of the country identifying dangerous living conditions, like radon, mold, and gas leaks. Additionally, in response to a solicitation from the committee, more than 16,000 responses were received by several military family organizations. More than half of respondents said they were dissatisfied with their military housing. Senator Sullivan Opening Statement: “I want to make sure that as we listen to the families and recognize their service and courage that we have our other witnesses, the DoD witnesses, the contractors who are intently taking notes and thinking about how they will fix this problem. As I've dug into this issue, I'm hopeful that we can all agree, everybody here all the senators, all the witnesses, on three things: We should have the best possible housing for our military and families. Period. There's a lot of talk about the 1 percent in America. Well guess what we're looking at a lot of the 1 percent in America – it's the less than 1 percent that actually raised their right hand to support and defend the Constitution of the United States and die for this country and their families. And they should have the best housing period. That shouldn't even be in dispute. Second, we need to fix the lack of accountability and oversight that has come from this, whether it's a DoD, or a chain of command, or contractors. What to me is so appalling as I've dug through a lot of these issues is how families, military families, weren't being listened to either within the chain of command. The Department of Defense or the contractors. We have to understand why and fix it. And, finally, we need to fix the program for today and for the future. There are things in this hearing that I think are going to likely shock many Americans. We're going to hear about military families who are living with things like black mold and rodent infestations and raw sewage. We need to look at this program – not scrap this program. There are a lot of good homes, including in my state, in Alaska, that provide quality and affordable housing for our service members. But something has gone terribly wrong with the system and how to fix it. So I think if we can agree on these three things, Mr. Chairman, it will be an important start. I do want to thank the service members and their families. It takes a lot of courage for you to be here--those who have traveled to be here, and we are looking forward to hearing your testimony.” ###
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Sullivan Applauds Senate Passage of Lands Package Legislation Includes Version of Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) applauded the passage of S. 47, the National Resources Management Act, which included a version of Senator Sullivan’s Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act. This provision would allow several thousand Alaska Natives who served during the Vietnam-era to apply for their congressionally-promised Native allotment after they missed their initial opportunity to do so because of their service. “For decades, a special group of Alaska veterans have suffered an injustice due to their service during the Vietnam War,” said Senator Sullivan. “My colleagues and I today took a significant step toward righting this wrong and ensuring Alaska Native vets have an opportunity to finally receive the land allotment they’ve previously been denied. “The passage of this provision is the result of a broad team keeping the fire burning together, including Senator Murkowski, former Interior Secretary Zinke, and a number of Alaska Native vets who personally advocated for this legislative fix. I also want to thank Congressman Young for his commitment to getting this important land package and the modified allotment provision across the goal line in the House.” The Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity provision resolves a number of issues that impaired the success of the Alaska Native Veterans Act of 1998. Importantly, it establishes a separate program to allow Alaska Native veterans who served during the Vietnam War era to apply for and receive an allotment of land in Alaska. The provision also provides a mechanism to identify lands that are available for selection and ensures that individuals will be able to use the land, including for subsistence. These changes will remedy inequities that Alaska Native Vietnam veterans have faced as a result of their service and unworkable federal laws that Congress previously passed to facilitate the allotments. ###
02.08.2019	02.08.19 ICYMI: Sullivan Attends White House Launch of Women’s Global Development and Prosperity Initiative WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Dan Senator Sullivan (R-AK) attended the launch of the Trump administration’s Women’s Global Development and Prosperity (W-GDP) Initiative at the White House. The W-GDP Initiative, led by Ivanka Trump, is the first-ever whole-of-government approach focused on advancing women’s full and free participation in the global economy. “We know that when women are empowered to participate in the economic futures of their home countries, stability and prosperity invariably follow,” said Senator Sullivan. “It was an honor to join Ivanka Trump and other members of the administration for a roundtable discussion regarding this exciting effort to equip women with the tools to lead and innovate in developing nations.” BACKGROUND: W-GDP seeks to reach 50 million women in the developing world by 2025 through U.S. government activities, private-public partnerships, and a new, innovative fund at USAID. The W-GDP Initiative focuses on three pillars: Helping women to prosper in the workforce by improving women’s access to quality education and skills training; Continuing efforts to fund and support women’s entrepreneurship and access to capital, markets, technical assistance, and mentorship; and Working to identify and reduce the policy, legal, and regulatory barriers to women’s participation in the global economy, and promote improved practices. For more information on the W-GDP Initiative, CLICK HERE. ###
02.08.2019	02.08.19 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Camdyn Clancy of Juneau WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor to recognize eight-year-old Juneau resident Camdyn Clancy. Because of his commitment to football, and the challenges he has playing in Alaska, Camdyn won the NFL PLAY 60 Super Kid contest and delivered the official game ball to the officiating crew just before kickoff at Super Bowl LIII in Atlanta. The days leading up to the game, he acted as the NFL's official kid correspondent, interviewing several Los Angeles Rams and New England Patriots players. Senator Sullivan recognized Camdyn as part of his series, “Alaskan of the Week.” SENATE FLOOR TRIBUTE TO CAMDYN CLANCY Mr. President, it has been a few weeks since I have been able to come to the floor and speak about an Alaskan in my State who is making the State a much better place. It is one of my favorite times of the week. I think it is one of the pages’ favorite times of the week, by the way. Nearly every week when we are in session, I come down to the floor and bring attention to someone in Alaska who is doing something that may be is recognized by the country, by the State, or maybe by the community, or maybe not recognized at all. We like to celebrate this person. We call that person our Alaskan of the Week. Alaska can feel a little bit far away from the rest of the country--a little bit like our own country sometimes, given our distance--but it is definitely part of this great Nation. Although we don't have a major professional sports team--some actually say the professional sport of Alaska is politics--just like the rest of America, we love our sports. Of course, we are big fans of winter sports--hockey, cross-country skiing, snow-machining, dog mushing, ice skating. But we are also pretty big football fans. Just like Americans throughout the country, last Sunday we were with family and friends tuned into America's most watched sporting event of the year, the Super Bowl. Many Alaskans watched the Super Bowl this year with special interest because we caught sight of one of our own--our Alaskan of the Week, Camdyn Clancy. Let me talk a little bit about Camdyn. Last time I was here a couple of weeks ago, I recognized our oldest Alaskan of the Week ever, 100-year-old Urban Rahoi, from Fairbanks, AK. He is a great American and a World War II veteran, and he is from the greatest generation. He is 100 years old. This week, Camdyn, who is 8 years old, is our youngest Alaskan of the Week to date. We are really proud of him just for that. Camdyn lives in Juneau, our State's capital, with his mother Hannah, who is a medical technician at Bartlett Hospital, and his father Brent, who is a firefighter. Last week, Camdyn experienced the dream of a lifetime for a young boy, which was made possible after he won the NFL PLAY 60 Super Kid contest. What is that? On Super Bowl Sunday, Camdyn delivered the official game ball to the officiating crew just before kickoff, which is a pretty big deal for an 8-year-old. The days leading up to the game, he acted as the NFL's official kid correspondent, interviewing several Rams and Patriots players. You might have seen some of his interviews on the internet. They have literally gone viral. What did he do to win the trip? For one, Camdyn loves all sports, but he really loves football. In fact, his parents took him to a Seattle Seahawks game when he was just 4 years old. Like I said, he really loves football, and it showed as he was competing to win this national Super Bowl competition. He showed it during a video that his mom Hannah filmed in front of Mendenhall Glacier in Juneau, AK, where his dedication to the game of football really shone through. He has played the past 4 seasons in the Juneau Youth Football League, coming off his own championship season, where he was the star quarterback of the team. When he gets home from school, he practices football every single night. He encourages others--the whole neighborhood, in fact--to play, including boys, girls, and anyone who will throw the football around with him. It is not always easy to play football on your street in Alaska in the winter. By the time school is out, depending where you are in the State--but for most of the State--the sun has already set. It is usually snowy. What does Camdyn do? He wears a headlamp to practice football in the winter in Alaska. That is dedication. His mother said: “He faces challenges that a lot of kids in the lower 48 don't.” She said that is probably why he won this huge Super Bowl football contest. The Super Bowl officials saw this dedicated young man in Alaska who loves football. He also probably knows more football stats than any other kid in Alaska. In the community, he is known as the football “Rain Man” with his stats on football. The Super Bowl players this year got a lot of questions from reporters, and Camdyn was one of them, as the official youth correspondent for the NFL. For example, he got to ask Rams' quarterback Jared Goff what was going through his head when Greg Zuerlein kicked the 57-yard field goal that clinched the NFC Championship Game against the Saints. “I was nervous,” Goff told Camdyn. “I was really nervous. It hit me right then that if he makes this, we are going to the Super Bowl.” He also got to interview the Patriots' star quarterback, Tom Brady, who smiled at Camdyn and shook his hand when Camdyn approached with a microphone in hand to interview Tom Brady before the game. Here was his question to quarterback Tom Brady: “How are you able to focus despite the negative fan base ..... AKA, the haters?” After a laugh, Tom Brady said: “We love them. We love them right back. We don't hate back.” That is a classy answer from one of the game's greatest. Camdyn later called the interview with Tom Brady “mind blowing.” He loved it. After he attended media day, we actually reached out to Camdyn and asked him what he learned during the event at the Super Bowl. He said: “Some of the players get a bad rap, but when you speak to them, they are really nice--like Ndamukong Suh. He was really nice.” Camdyn said he loves the physical aspect of the game of football. He loves winning, and he loves the competition, but what he and his parents really love is how it can mold a person's character through hard work and perseverance. Being a good person is also key, Camdyn said. “That really reflects the performance and how much people want to play.” When asked what he wants to do when he is older, of course, Camdyn mentioned two potential professional paths. One, of course, is to be a pro football quarterback. I think he has a lot of potential to do that. The next would be a firefighter, just like his dad. Camdyn, thank you for representing Alaska last week at the Super Bowl in Atlanta. We were so proud of you. Thanks for being an inspiration to your community and our State. Thanks to the NFL for inspiring kids like Camdyn, and thanks to Brent and Hannah Clancy for raising such a great kid. Congratulations on winning the NFL PLAY 60 Super Kid contest, and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week--the youngest Alaskan of the Week ever. Great job, Camdyn. # # #
02.07.2019	02.07.19 Sullivan Meets with Attorney General Nominee William Barr WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan released the following statement after meeting with William Barr, President Trump’s nominee to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States. “Mr. Barr and I had a detailed discussion on his priorities for the Department of Justice, and on many issues important to Alaska. I was very impressed with our conversation,” said Senator Sullivan. “Specifically, I made sure to invite him to Alaska and highlighted Alaska’s unique position under federal law, including ANCSA and ANILCA. We discussed his view of the Second Amendment, an incredibly important issue for our state. I am confident that he will protect our right to bear arms, as well as our other important constitutional rights. “Mr. Barr is a patriot. He didn’t have to take this job. He didn’t have to put his family through this process. But he feels a sense of duty to lead the Justice Department in the right direction. America will be lucky to have him. I look forward to voting for his confirmation.” ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Sullivan Welcomes Private Sector Coalition to Combat Marine Debris Alliance Commits $1.5 Billion to Solve the Issue of Plastics in the Ocean WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), the bipartisan cosponsors of the Save Our Seas (SOS) Act, which was signed into law last year, teamed up for a forum on Capitol Hill to highlight the newly formed non-profit, “Alliance to End Plastic Waste,” and preview their “SOS 2.0” legislation which will be introduced later this year. Member companies of the Alliance recently committed $1.5 billion to help address the global marine debris crisis. “This new coalition of private sector businesses investing significant resources toward solving the marine debris crisis is an extremely exciting development and a huge cause for hope,” said Senator Sullivan. “We know plastic waste is one critical environmental issue that is solvable, actionable, and measurable. With all stakeholders—the private sector, environmental groups, and both the legislative and executive branches—pulling on the same oar, I am confident we can work to solve this global challenge together. “Senator Whitehouse and I are eager to unveil ‘SOS 2.0,’ legislation that will build on the provisions of the Save Our Seas Act and have a particular focus on incentivizing the private sector and innovators to step forward with new technologies and systems to protect our marine ecosystems.” BACKGROUND: Every year, roughly eight million metric tons of mismanaged plastic waste from land enters the oceans. Since 2005, NOAA estimates that it has removed 1.3 million pounds of marine debris in Alaska. In 2015 alone, the non-profit group Gulf of Alaska Keeper collected over one million pounds of marine debris from remote Alaska beaches. The debris is known to break down into tiny pieces that can enter the marine food web and harm fish and wildlife, and also washes ashore on even the most remote beaches. The Senators – both members of the Senate Oceans Caucus – introduced the Save Our Seas Act in March 2017 to boost the federal government’s domestic and international response to the millions of tons of plastic waste and other garbage that litter our shores, pollute our oceans, endanger wildlife, and disrupt commerce. In October 2018, the SOS Act was signed into law by President Trump. To learn more about the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, click here. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Sullivan on President’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) shared the following video message with Alaskans in response to President Trump’s State of the Union address: ###
02.04.2019	02.04.19 Senator Sullivan Writes Facebook, Encourages Clarification of Policies Negatively Impacting Alaska Native Artisans WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today wrote the CEO of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, to clarify Facebook Marketplace’s policies regarding the sale of products or artwork made with any “part, pelt or skin from an animal, including fur.” Late last week, Senator Sullivan was made aware of the policy issue by the Sealaska Heritage Institute – which informed the Senator that Sitka skin sewer Robert Miller posted a sea otter hat for sale on Facebook and received a message saying it was not approved because it didn’t meet Facebook’s commerce policies. Facebook has since indicated the removal of these ads was a mistake. However, Senator Sullivan is requesting greater clarity on the scope of prohibited items for Alaska Native craftsmen and their customers around the world. “The Alaska Native community has for thousands of years used animal products for survival, subsistence, and as a key means of cultural expression,” Senator Sullivan wrote. “Inhibiting the sale of these items not only limits the cultural exchange Facebook has empowered the Alaska Native community to share, but also threatens one of the key economic opportunities in remote Alaska villages. “Going forward, I hope we can work together to positively use the power of Facebook to the benefit of Alaska Native people and their communities. An important part of my work in the Senate is to try to correct the problems caused when public officials and entities like online vendors do not fully understand the unique circumstances of my constituents.” Senator Sullivan’s full letter to Mark Zuckerberg can be found here. Background In February 2018, Senator Sullivan worked with Alaska Native artists to resolve an issue with Etsy – an online marketplace of crafts and handmade items – that initially refused to sell Alaska Native artists selling products or artwork with sealskin, sea otter and ivory. In October 2016, Senator Sullivan convened a Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee field hearing at the Alaska Federation of Natives Convention to discuss a series of reported problems and confusion surrounding state laws across the country that prohibit ivory sales and harm Alaska Native artisans. Following the hearing – working with Alaska Native leaders and those negatively impacted by these bans – Senator Sullivan introduced S. 1965, the Allowing Alaska IVORY Act. This legislation, cosponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski, would have preempted states from banning walrus ivory or whale bone products that have been legally carved by Alaska Natives under the Marine Mammal Protection Act; in addition to preempting states from issuing bans on mammoth ivory products. # # #
02.04.2019	02.04.19 Sullivan Voices Support for Interior Secretary Nominee Bernhardt WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement in support of acting Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt, nominated today by President Donald Trump to lead the department on a permanent basis. “David Bernhardt is an excellent choice to be our next Secretary of the Interior,” Senator Dan Sullivan said. “He is a strong advocate for the goal of energy dominance, and will help facilitate Alaska’s role in that goal. During his years of private practice and leadership positions at the Interior Department during both the Trump and Bush Administrations, he has gained a deep understanding of Alaska’s unique land issues – including ANILCA. He has also shown a commitment to the Interior Department’s trust responsibility to Alaska Natives. I believe that Mr. Bernhardt will be a great Secretary of the Interior for my state, and for our country.”
02.01.2019	02.01.19 Sullivan Honored to Announce 2019 Military Service Academy Nominations ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) had the honor and privilege of nominating 41 outstanding young Alaskans to four of our country’s U.S. Military Service Academies. “I am honored and humbled to put forward a truly outstanding batch of candidates from Alaska to our nation’s military service academies,” said Senator Sullivan. “Each candidate represents the best and brightest of a new generation – highly educated young leaders with a deep desire to contribute their talents toward serving the communities and country they love. I am excited to see all that these Alaskans accomplish in the years ahead.” These nominations allow the applicants to compete for appointments to the academies. Appointments are offered individually by the academies. NOTE: The U.S. Coast Guard Academy does not require a Congressional nomination for their application. Senator Sullivan’s Class of 2023 U.S. Military Service Academy nominees are as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy: Maximus Addington, Anchorage Uriah Alenepi, Eagle River Theodore Handley, Homer Katheryn Kelsch, Palmer Ian Mikale Llaneza, Anchorage Madison Maroney, Anchorage Isabella Mollison, Eagle River Alexander O’Neill, Anchorage Clare Catherine Porter, Eagle River Sarah Price, North Pole U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Victoria Austin, Hoonah* Ethan Christiansen, Anchorage* Kyle Collins, Anchorage Collin Dyches, Eagle River* Cordell Johnson, Eagle River Dugan McNutt, Juneau U.S. Military Academy: Victoria Austin, Hoonah* Kenneth Donnolly, JBER Joshua Gray, Fairbanks Teeana Nicholai, Palmer Christopher Orta, Anchorage Laelle Robison, Wasilla* Jacob Smith, Fairbanks Emi Soldwedel, Anchorage Michael Stoddard, Anchorage* Aaron Warner, Fort Wainwright U.S. Naval Academy: Adonis Buzard, Juneau Ethan Christiansen, Anchorage* Jacob Christy, Anchorage Collin Dyches, Eagle River* Kevin Leach, Anchorage Mikaela Maroney, Anchorage Raymond Matiashowski, Juneau Eliot Merriner, Anchorage Aaron Motis, Nome Walter Nagel, Palmer Michael Prater, JBER Kiera Puls, Anchorage Wade Quigley, Girdwood Grace Reitzig, Wasilla Laelle Robison, Wasilla* Matthew Ross, Anchorage Isaac Ruse, Delta Junction Jackson Servant, Anchorage Cameron Sheldon, Anchorage Michael Stoddard, Anchorage* *Received more than one nomination from Senator Sullivan Senator Sullivan’s Academy Review Board, comprised of seven members from across Alaska and many of whom are service academy graduates, reviewed the applications, interviewed each of the applicants, and recommended individuals for nomination. “I want to once again thank the board’s participation and dedication. They volunteered countless hours reviewing applications, interviewing candidates, and discussing the qualifications of potential nominees,” said Senator Sullivan. “I am thankful for the breadth of expertise they brought to this process to nominate young Alaskans to become the next leaders of the world’s greatest military.” Senator Sullivan’s Service Academy Selection Board: Anita Baker - Anchorage Eric Feige – Chickaloon Grace Greene – Girdwood Win Gruening – Juneau Dan Kennedy – Wasilla Bill Thomas – Haines Amy Woodward – Eagle River Kathlene Rowell – Staff director for nominations The Alaska Congressional Delegation works closely with one another to maximize the opportunities for Alaskas’ men and women to receive nominations to the academies. ###
01.31.2019	01.31.19 Alaska Congressional Delegation Applauds Presidential Declaration for Earthquake Recovery Delegation Thanks Administration for Supporting Alaskans in Time of Need U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young, all R-Alaska, today thanked President Donald Trump for approving a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration for Alaska’s 7.0 magnitude earthquake that occurred on November 30, 2018, causing widespread damage to infrastructure such as major highways, roads, and bridges, as well as schools, homes, and businesses. This declaration provides federal financial assistance for the State of Alaska to address the earthquake damage, as well as impacts caused by the nearly 8,000 subsequent aftershocks through FEMA Individual Assistance, Public Assistance, and Hazard Mitigation Grant programs. The disaster declaration also opens up the availability of property damage and economic injury disaster loans to families and small businesses through the Small Business Administration. “We greatly appreciate the Trump Administration’s swift attention to Governor Dunleavy’s request for a major disaster declaration following Alaska’s recent 7.0 magnitude earthquake which caused widespread destruction and severe damage,” said the Alaska Congressional Delegation. “Alaskans are resilient, evident in the initial response to the earthquake. But sometimes we need help, especially given a natural disaster of this scale. This federal assistance will do much to help Alaskans rebuild and repair the damage. We’re also grateful to our colleagues who have shown support here in Congress, and to the many people across the country who reached out, offering help to Alaskans who were impacted.” Individual Assistance: Assistance to individuals and households in the Municipality of Anchorage, Matanuska-Susitna Borough, and Kenai Peninsula Borough. Public Assistance: Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities in the Municipality of Anchorage, Matanuska-Susitna Borough, and Kenai Peninsula Borough. Hazard Mitigation: Assistance for actions taken in the State to prevent or reduce long term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Background: On January 4, the Delegation wrote a letter to President Trump to act promptly and approve Alaska Governor Michael Dunleavy’s (R-AK) request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration.
01.28.2019	01.28.19 Sullivan, Tester Urge VA to Explore Medicinal Cannabis as an Alternative Treatment for Veterans Senators Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Begin Clinical Trials on Medicinal Cannabis to Treat Chronic Pain, PTSD WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Jon Tester (D-MT) have introduced bipartisan legislation to urge the VA to explore the potential benefits of medicinal cannabis for veterans. The Senators’ VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act would direct the VA to begin clinical trials to test the effects of medicinal cannabis as a treatment for chronic pain and symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress. “Since coming to the Senate, I’ve heard from Alaskan veterans who have been seeking alternatives to opioids in the hopes of better managing their pain,” said Sullivan, member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Many of our nation’s veterans already use medicinal cannabis, and they deserve to have full knowledge of the potential benefits and side effects of this alternative therapy. I was pleased to work on this legislation with Sen. Tester that would direct the VA to take a serious look at how cannabis use can affect veterans with PTSD and chronic pain.” “The VA needs to listen to the growing number of veterans who have already found success in medicinal cannabis in easing their pain and other symptoms,” said Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Our bill will make sure the VA takes proactive steps to explore medicinal cannabis as a safe and effective alternative to opioids for veterans suffering from injuries or illness received in the line of duty.” The Senators’ bill authorizes a randomized controlled clinical trial to assess the effectiveness of medicinal cannabis to reduce symptoms of chronic pain and/or Post-Traumatic Stress, improve mood or social functioning, or impact other substance use. It would require the clinical trial to examine the effects of different forms and methods of delivery of cannabis. Tester and Sullivan championed their bipartisan bill during last Congress. They also urged VA Secretary Robert Wilkie to begin similar clinical trials. The Senators’ VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act can be found online HERE. ###
01.25.2019	01.25.19 Sullivan Addresses Alaskans on Bipartisan Deal to Reopen the Government WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on camera to Alaskans about the bill he supported to immediately reopen parts of the federal government that have been closed, for three weeks, while also providing the room to continue negotiating border-security funding. To watch Senator Sullivan’s address to Alaskans, CLICK HERE. Below is a full transcription of Senator Sullivan’s remarks: Hello Alaska. Today, the President announced that he would sign a bill that would open, for three weeks, the parts of the federal government that have been closed, while also providing the room to negotiate border-security funding. While this was not the proposal I voted for yesterday, for the sake of our federal workers and their families, I welcome the news and support this bill. As we all know, in Alaska the federal employees in our state do great work for us – there are so many like the TSA, the FAA, NOAA and the members of our Coast Guard who put their lives on the line for us literally every day in Alaska. They need to be paid for their work and over the last few weeks that is something I’ve been advocating for in bills, on the Senate floor—to get the Coast Guard and other federal employees paid for their work. That said, the debate we’re having over border security is far from over. Throughout this process, I’ve had ongoing discussions about ending the partial government shutdown and border security with Democrats and Republican Senators and directly with the President, including a phone call with him this morning. Over the past 25 years, every president of the United States – Democrats and Republicans – has attempted to secure our Southern border. Hundreds of miles of barriers, fences, and walls have been built by Democratic and Republican administrations – with the support of Democrats and Republicans in the Congress. And these barriers work. The President and Republicans have been putting forward various proposals that include priorities from each party. Now we need the Democratic leaders in the House and the Senate to come to the table in good faith to focus on border security and other immigration reform issues. I certainly hope they do. Thanks for listening.
01.24.2019	01.24.19 Sullivan Statement on Compromise Proposal to End the Partial Government Shutdown WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today voted in support of legislation to fully fund the government and end the partial shutdown. “Today, the bipartisan proposal I supported would have re-opened the government, provided necessary funding to secure our Southern border with a barrier and also by using 21st Century technologies, and would fund an increase in much-needed border patrol agents and immigration judges. The bill would have also provided a degree of certainty to the DACA participants — young people who were brought to our country through no fault of their own. At the end of the day, this bill was a compromise proposal that included both Democratic and Republican priorities. “The bill is also particularly important to Alaska. It would have extended the Violence Against Women Act, and also would have appropriated vital funding to help Alaskans recover from the November 2018 earthquake. Overall, the bill was a good starting point to build consensus. “By contrast, I voted against Senator Schumer’s proposal, because, had it passed the Senate, it would have been vetoed, sending us right back to our current situation – gridlock – while delaying the constructive negotiations that are going on right now. We need to open the government, secure our borders and pay our federal workers. We do not need further delays and more political posturing. “The situation for our federal workers—including our men and women in the U.S. Coast Guard—is unacceptable. It’s past time for Congress to come to the negotiating table and strike a bipartisan deal.” ###
01.22.2019	01.22.19 Sullivan Named Chairman of Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced that he has been selected to serve as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee (SASC) on Readiness and Management Support in the 116th Congress. In his capacity as Chairman of the SASC Subcommittee on Readiness, Sullivan will oversee military readiness across each branch within the Department of Defense, including training, logistics and maintenance issues and programs, military construction, installations and family housing issues, and defense energy and environmental programs. “Ensuring our service members have all of the resources, equipment and training to protect our nation against an increasingly complex and diverse array of threats remains my top priority and a top priority of the Department of Defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “This is an important subcommittee for our military, especially our forces in Alaska. We have made great progress on rebuilding readiness shortfalls over the last couple of years, but much more work must be done. This Congress, I look forward to finishing our service-specific readiness hearing series with a hearing on Army Readiness. I also hope to tackle other important issues including acquisition reforms, industrial base issues, and Arctic readiness.” ###
01.18.2019	01.18.19 Sullivan, Klobuchar Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Protect Service members, Examine Health Effects of Toxic Burn Pits WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) reintroduced the bipartisan Burn Pits Accountability Act to examine the health effects of exposure to open burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals on service members and veterans. The legislation would require members of the Armed Forces to be evaluated for exposure to toxic airborne chemicals during routine health exams and direct the Secretary of Defense to record and share whether servicemembers were based or stationed near an open burn pit, including any information recorded as part of the Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry, the Periodic Health Assessment (PHAs), Separation History and Physical Examination (SHPEs), and Post-Deployment Health Assessment (PDHAs). Members exposed to toxic airborne chemicals or stationed near an open burn pit would also be enrolled in the Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry, unless they chose to opt out. “As a member of both the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services Committees, it’s my priority to support our service members from the day they enter military service through the transition into civilian life and beyond,” Sullivan said. “I am pleased to once again work with Senator Klobuchar on this bipartisan legislation that would help keep our service members healthy and safe by ensuring exposure to toxic airborne chemicals from burn pits is identified and studied.” “We must do right by the brave men and women who serve our country and do everything we can to protect their health,” Klobuchar said. “The bipartisan Burn Pits Accountability Act ‎will allow us to gather the information we need to monitor, evaluate, and eventually treat the devastating health effects of burn pits on our service members. By learning from our past mistakes, we can prevent toxic burn pits from becoming this generation’s Agent Orange.” The burning of waste on military bases exposed many service members to a variety of potentially harmful substances. Plastic, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, tires, and batteries were thrown into open pits, often doused with jet fuel, and set on fire. As a result, many deployed soldiers were exposed to smoke from these open-air burn pits. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. Troops who have worked in these areas are subject to higher rates of asthma, emphysema, and rare lung disorders. ###
01.17.2019	01.17.19 Sullivan Attends Missile Defense Review Announcement, Applauds Alaska Specific Focus WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Armed Services Committee, attended President Trump’s and the Department of Defense’s unveiling of the 2019 Missile Defense Review (MDR) at the Pentagon, which is the first update to American missile defense policy since 2010. “Over the past forty years, the issue of missile defense has been a largely partisan issue led by Republican Presidents,” said Senator Sullivan. “Since entering the Senate, I have worked to reach across the aisle to drive much needed improvements to our missile defense systems – including space based sensors, a new missile field at Ft. Greely, and targeted investments in cutting-edge technology – all of which are reflected in this MDR. “Today’s announcement of our new Missile Defense Review solidifies the bipartisan progress the Congress has already made working with the Trump administration. It outlines the vision for the future – protecting us from more advanced ballistic missile threats from rogue nations like North Korea and Iran. It also paves the way for the next big leap in our defense – countering rapidly emerging threats like the long-range cruise and hypersonic missiles that both Russia and China continue to develop. “Alaska is the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense, and as the President said in his remarks, we can do more and we must do more to keep us safe. This review is another step in that process – and our Alaskan Missile Defenders at Ft. Greely and Clear Air Force Station, who stand watch 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, will help lead the way.” BACKGROUND: As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Sullivan has been a strong advocate and leader on the need to bolster America’s missile defense, which President Trump acknowledged in his remarks today In the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Senator Sullivan worked across the aisle to include his Integrated Missile Defense Act – which authorized eight missile defense provisions including the first-time requirement to both develop and deploy a layer of space-based sensors. In the FY2018 NDAA, Senator Sullivan worked to include the majority of his bipartisan Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act -- which authorized 20 additional GBMI’s (a brand new missile field) at Ft. Greely, Alaska, which was fully funded by Congress and signed into law by President Trump in December 2017. In the FY2017 NDAA, Senator Sullivan worked to include his Missile Defense Defend and Deter Act – legislation requiring the Missile Defense Agency to test a Ground Based Missile Interceptor once a year. Working alongside Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young, Senator Sullivan over the past four years has been able to authorize and secure nearly $1.3 billion in military construction funding for Alaska. ###
01.16.2019	01.16.19 Sullivan Pushes Senate to Pass Pay our Coast Guard Act WASHINGTON, DC— Yesterday evening, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) urged his Senate colleagues to take up and pass legislation that he and a bipartisan group of senators have introduced which would ensure that the more than 41,000 active members and retirees of the U.S. Coast Guard be paid throughout the partial government shutdown. Senator Sullivan is currently the chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Security, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Coast Guard. To watch Senator Sullivan’s floor speech in support of the Pay Our Coast Guard Act, CLICK HERE. BACKGROUND ON LACK OF COAST GUARD PAY: Yesterday, members of the Coast Guard didn’t receive their regularly scheduled paychecks. According to Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Karl L. Schultz “this marks the first time in our Nation’s history that service members in a U.S. Armed Force have not been paid during a lapse in government appropriations.” During previous government shutdowns, Congress kept the military paid through the Pay Our Military Act. However, in this fiscal year, the Coast Guard is the only military branch without an appropriation. Below is a full transcription of Senator Sullivan’s remarks: Madam President, I want to spend a few minutes talking about the partial government shutdown, which is happening right now, and, more importantly, related to it, the men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard who are working today, like every other member of the military, risking their lives here, in my State of Alaska, and overseas in the Middle East, and are not getting paid to do so. They are the only branch of the U.S. military not getting paid to risk their lives for their country. They missed their first paycheck today, but here is the good news. We are offering a solution--a solution that is working through the Federal Government that has a lot of potential. Before I get to that, I want to talk a little bit about the partial government shutdown itself and make clear that I believe the Trump administration's effort to secure the border should be part of the solution. Every nation has the right and has the responsibility to protect its citizens and to protect its sovereignty. In my view, this is something that should not be controversial. Every nation has the right and responsibility to do this, and that is what the citizens of each country expect. It should not be controversial. In fact, over the past 25 years, every single President of the United States--Democrat and Republican--has attempted to secure the southern border and has come before the Congress and said: I am going to secure the southern border. They have campaigned on securing the southern border. They have all said this. Even the Members of Congress--Democrats and Republicans--year after year have come to the floor of both Houses and said: We need to do it. In a big speech in 2014, President Obama called the situation on the southern border a crisis. That was 4 years ago. He called it a crisis--the previous President, President Obama. I agreed with his assessment then, and I agree with President Trump's assessment now, which is the same assessment. That is why the President is asking for $5.7 billion to secure our border. It is not an unreasonable request, particularly, when Members of this body, just last spring, when we were debating immigration reform, voted for dollar amounts that were much greater than that. Again, Democrats and Republicans, last spring, debating on the floor of this body immigration reform and border security, voted way north of $5.7 billion. This is just one of the many solutions we need to grapple with in order to have a functional immigration system that secures our border, enforces the law, helps to grow our economy, and, importantly, keeps families together. Securing the border is an important goal. I am hoping that as we all work on this, Speaker Pelosi, Minority Leader Schumer, the President, and my Republican colleagues could get to a compromise on this issue soon. We all need to come together. The good news, as I mentioned, is that we might be on the verge of coming together--those parties that I just mentioned--on one of the issues that relate to securing our border, that relate to this broader challenge on the partial government shutdown involving the U.S. Coast Guard . I am hopeful that this could be a template for getting out of the broader partial government shutdown. As you know, the partial government shutdown is negatively impacting Federal workers, but none--none--more so than the brave men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard. As I mentioned, they are currently the only members of the U.S. military who are not getting paid during this partial government shutdown. The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines are all out there risking their lives for our Nation. We greatly appreciate that. And guess what. They are getting paid to do it, as they should be, but the Coast Guard members are also out there risking their lives, especially in my State, the great State of Alaska. They are out on the Bering Seas, some of the roughest and most dangerous oceans in the world, keeping our fishermen safe and doing rescues. They are deployed overseas. They are deployed in the Middle East. They have been in Florida and Texas helping with natural disasters, hurricanes--all heroic service. There have been many shutdowns before in the Federal Government, unfortunately, dating back decades, but this might be the first time ever that you have every branch of the military being paid during the shutdown, with the exception of one. Let me read a letter from the commandant of the Coast Guard, ADM Karl Schultz, to the men and women of the Coast Guard: To the Men and Women of the United States Coast Guard, Today you will not be receiving your regularly scheduled mid-month paycheck. To the best of my knowledge, this marks the first time in our Nation's history that service members in a U.S. Armed Force have not been paid during a lapse in government appropriations. That is the first paragraph in the Commandant's letter to all the members of the U.S. Coast Guard. It is the first time in the U.S. history we are doing this to members of the military. (Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the Record.) Nobody thinks this is a good idea. Nobody thinks this is a good idea. So last week, a number of us in this body, Democrats and Republicans, put forward a bill that simply says we should pay the men and women of the Coast Guard, even if we are in a partial government shutdown, just like paying the men and women of the other branches of the military. They are risking their lives daily. They can't just quit their job. By the way, if they want to just go quit, they are going to be court-martialed. That is different than other Federal service. So that is what we said we were going to do. When the President came to the Senate last week, I had the opportunity to raise this issue with the President and his team and highlighted the fact that this is very different, and we need to work together. We have a bill. If we get the President's support and signature on it, that would be a good way to move it forward, and I have been in communication with his administration ever since the lunch--working with us. I am hopeful we are on the verge of a breakthrough because the White House has said the President recognizes this is a rather unique situation--very unique--so he has now said he is going to support this bill. We have Democrats, Republicans, the White House, and the President of the United States all saying, all right, we are not there yet, but this is a good start, and this is an important issue. What is going on right now in this body is we are trying to UC this. We are trying to get unanimous consent from Democrats and Republicans on this bill. Again, leadership on the Democratic side and on the Republican side have all supported this bill: pay the Coast Guard like the other military service members. The White House is now supportive. Hopefully, tonight we are going to get this cleared, and we are going to get it over to the House; Speaker Pelosi and her team will recognize how dire and important this is--just like Democrats, Republicans, the President, and Secretary Nielsen Secretary of Homeland Security all recognize this--and we get to a solution. It is not going to end everything, but it will be a solution. I am asking my colleagues tonight, as this bill is being moved through the hotline for unanimous consent--and I thank all the Republicans who have already said they will support it. We get my colleagues on the Democratic side--again, there are a number of Democratic cosponsors on this bill. The President said he would sign it. We get it over to the House, and we start to get solutions as opposed to just roadblocks. There are just two broader issues I want to raise. As I am indicating, this kind of work can be a template to getting to a broader solution with regard to the partial government shutdown--Democrats and Republicans in this body working together, the White House working with us, the Trump administration working with us, and, hopefully, the House will see the wisdom of this when the bill comes over to them, and we will get a bill signed that takes care of almost 50,000 Active-Duty patriots--men and women--risking their lives, right now as we speak, with no pay. I am hopeful that is a template. Another broader issue that this matter actually raises--that we need to focus on a lot more in the Senate--is a problem I have seen in the last 4 years during my time here; that sometimes the Coast Guard gets short shrift relative to other members of the military. It is wrong, and we need to work on it together. Why has that happened? Certainly not because they are not as heroic and dedicated and patriotic as the rest of the military. I don't think it is intentional. It is more bureaucratic. The Coast Guard falls under the Commerce Committee. The Coast Guard falls under the Homeland Security Secretary. The Marines, the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force are under the Armed Services Committee and under the Pentagon. Sometimes things just happen, whether it is retirement pay, whether it is the example of paying the military, where the Coast Guard gets treated in an unequal manner. They shouldn't. They shouldn't. We need to treat all members of the military, all five branches, the same: pay, retirement, shutdowns. Again, I don't think it is intentional, but it does happen. I am the chairman of the subcommittee in the Commerce Committee in charge of the Coast Guard. I sit on the Armed Services Committee. I know a lot of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, have recognized this is a problem. The chairman of the Commerce Committee, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee have. I think we are all focused--again, bipartisan--to address some of these challenges where the Coast Guard is not treated equally among the other services, and that is just wrong. We need to start working on that, and I am going to continue to focus on that issue. The best way we can start working on that is tonight: Fix this pay problem, which every single American knows is inequitable, knows is not fair to the men and women of the Coast Guard, but we are on the verge of a solution. Let's UC this bill tonight--we have the White House's support--and get it over to the House. At least we will take care of one issue where there is an inequality between the men and women in the other branches of the services and the Coast Guard, and then we will work to fix all the others. I am hopeful we are going to get there tonight and hopefully will solve this problem in the next 24 to 48 hours. ###
01.11.2019	01.11.19 Sullivan Named Chair of Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Security WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced that he has been selected to serve as chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Security in the 116th Congress. This new subcommittee will provide oversight of the Coast Guard, Maritime Administration, Transportation Security Administration, the Merchant Marine, and other national security issues including drones, digital networks, and cybersecurity. “I’m honored to assume the chairmanship of this important subcommittee tasked with oversight of our national security as it relates to economic security,” Senator Sullivan said.“This subcommittee is particularly relevant to Alaska, with our dependence on maritime transportation, home to the largest Coast Guard base in the nation and more ocean coastline than the rest of the United States combined. This new subcommittee provides a platform to provide an added focus on security and safety issues that are essential to economic prosperity. In addition to this exciting new opportunity, I look forward to continuing my bipartisan work on the Commerce Committee, with particular focus on Arctic readiness, addressing the threat of marine debris to our coastal communities and ecosystems, and ensuring Alaska’s fisheries thrive for generations to come.” “Sen. Sullivan has vigorously championed the interests of the Coast Guard, most recently helping to get the Coast Guard Reauthorization Act and the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act across the finish line,” said Commerce Committee Chairman Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) “Additionally, he is a champion of building new Polar Security Cutter icebreakers to replace an aging fleet in the high north. His leadership in these areas make him well suited to chair this new subcommittee.” ###
01.09.2019	01.09.19 Sullivan Addresses Alaskans on Partial Government Shutdown and Border Security WASHINGTON, DC—Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on camera to Alaskans about the partial government shutdown, and the broader issue of border security and how it relates to the shutdown. To watch Senator Sullivan’s address to Alaskans, CLICK HERE. Below is a full transcription of Senator Sullivan’s remarks: Hello Alaska and Happy 2019 to everybody. I hope you have a great holiday season. I certainly did with my wife and daughters in Anchorage and in Fairbanks as well. Today I want to spend a few minutes talking about the partial federal government shutdown and on the broader debate we’re having here in D.C. on the issue of border security and how it relates to that shutdown. First, I want to make it very clear: I support the president in his efforts and in his Administration’s efforts to secure our border. This is something that every nation does to protect its sovereignty and in my view is not something that should be viewed as very controversial—securing the border of your nation. Over the past 25 years every president of the United States, Democrats and Republicans, has attempted to secure our Southern border. They’ve all said they would. Even this Congress over many years has said we should. This Administration is trying to keep the promise made by the President to do just that. And I support that. The goal is for a functional immigration system that secures our border, enforces the law and importantly keeps families together. We don’t have that now. I agree with the president, and the Customs and Border Protection commissioner, who has called the situation on the southern border a security crisis, but importantly, also a humanitarian crisis. Two issues that I’m particularly concerned about and have focused on as your Senator and I know that most Alaskans are most concerned about are actually related to the porous border down south. And that is human trafficking—evil people who are leading children from different parts of America and different parts of South America and Mexico into lives of hell—and also the drug and opioid crisis that’s decimating communities across our country and that is threatening many Alaska communities and families as well. Both of these issues are tied to a porous southern border. Most people who come to this country we all believe are good people coming in good faith. But not all of them are. It’s a fact that drug smugglers, and human traffickers are exploiting our border with Mexico. And it’s also a fact that strong borders work. Of the southern border’s 1,950 miles, a physical barrier today protects about 650 miles. Border Patrol areas with enhanced or expanded barriers have been successful. That’s a fact. They have seen a 90 percent decrease in illegal traffic. Now, over the past month, Speaker Pelosi has called the so-called wall “immoral.” I couldn’t disagree more. In my opinion what’s immoral is not addressing the humanitarian crisis that ruins lives on both sides of the border—some of the issues I’ve been talking about in terms of human trafficking and the horrible opioid and heroin epidemic that’s hitting our country and our state. I wish I could tell you when this is going to end—the partial government shutdown. The good news is we actually last year funded the vast majority of the government through the appropriations process. But while this continues, I will continue to work with federal agencies to try to minimize the impact of the shutdown on Alaskans. Let me give you a couple of examples. Throughout the holidays, I worked with senior officials at the Department of Commerce, including the head of NMFS, Alaskan Chris Oliver. Working together, we made sure that the cod fishery opened on time and we will continue to work day and night to make sure future fisheries openings in Alaska, some of which are coming in the next week, also open on time with federal government support. Earlier today, President Trump came to the Capitol to meet with Republican Senators. I was able to commend his team to him for working with us to keep our fisheries open—that’s hundreds of millions of dollars for Alaska communities and hundreds if not thousands of people working in our fishing industry who are out there fishing now. And I also personally encouraged him to continue to make sure that federal agencies are helping Alaskans and Americans. For example, I mentioned FEMA—as it continues to work on the recovery from the massive earthquake that hit our state on November 30—to make sure FEMA is helping Alaskans now to the extent allowed by law. And that was an issue I raised with the president today. Finally, Alaskans should also know that I’ve introduced a bill that ensures that members of our Coast Guard continue to get paid through the shutdown. The Coast Guard is the only branch of the five branches of the military that isn’t getting paid. The Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines are. I know it’s a difficult issue because other federal agency members are not getting paid. But I believe that the brave men and women of the Coast Guard throughout Alaska and our country—who do an amazing job and are risking their lives every day for us protecting the homeland, keeping our fisheries safe and secure—should be getting paid. I raised this issue with the president as well today. I know this shutdown is tough for many federal workers and their families in Alaska. They do great work for us and our nation. Know that we are continuing to work on a solution that helps better secure our country and to create a better, stronger immigration system—one that works for those immigrating and seeking asylum, and one that works for the citizens of our own nation who live here. We’re going to keep working hard on all of these issues, but I wanted to make sure that you heard directly from me in detail on some of the things we’re debating and discussing in the Congress right now. Thank you for your attention on these issues and if there are other things related to the partial shutdown that you or anyone else in Alaska need help on, do not hesitate to call my office. Thank you. ###
01.08.2019	01.08.19 Alaska Congressional Delegation Backs Governor’s Request for Federal Aid Delegation Joins Gov. Dunleavy in Request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young, all R-Alaska, sent a letter urging President Donald Trump to act promptly and approve Alaska Governor Michael Dunleavy’s (R-AK) request for a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration. This declaration would provide federal assistance for the State of Alaska to address the major earthquake that occurred on November 30, 2018, as well as impacts caused by subsequent aftershocks. In their letter, the Alaska Congressional Delegation explained the widespread damage caused by the earthquake. “On November 30, 2018, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake located seven miles north of Anchorage produced widespread destruction and severe damage to major highways and important public roads, bridges, and rail infrastructure; widespread power, water, and communication disruption; structural collapse and resulting fires to several buildings; and severe damage to private homes, personal property, and businesses,” said the Congressional Delegation. “Since that time Alaska and Alaskans have been rattled by thousands of aftershocks, the first of which followed the main earthquake by minutes; the most recent of which, registering at 4.3, occurred on January 2, 2019.” The Congressional Delegation also applauded Alaskans for their timely response, but also reiterated the need for additional federal assistance. “There is much more that needs to be done. Governor Dunleavy indicated in his request that the damage was of such severity and scale that additional federal assistance is necessary to supplement the actions of our State agencies,” the Delegation said. “Though the spring thaw may provide a more comprehensive understanding of the extent of the damage, it is crucial that Alaska has the resources necessary to continue the process of rebuilding.” The full text of the letter can be found by clicking here. For more information on the FEMA Disaster Declaration process, click here. ###
01.04.2019	01.04.19 Delegation Applauds Secretary of the Navy’s Decision to Name Future Destroyer After Senator Ted Stevens WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation today proudly announced that Secretary of the Navy Richard V. Spencer has named a future Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer in honor of the late U.S. Senator Ted Stevens, who served as Alaska’s Senator from 1968-2009. "It is an honor to help Secretary Spencer announce the naming of the USS Ted Stevens today,” said Senator Sullivan. “As an Army Air Corps officer, a civil servant, and a historic U.S. Senator from our great state, Senator Stevens remains one of the shining examples of public service to our nation. We Alaskans affectionately called him 'Uncle Ted.’ However, before he was our U.S. Senator, Senator Stevens bravely flew missions behind enemy lines in the Pacific Theater during WWII, supporting the now famous 'Flying Tigers.' I can think of no more fitting tribute than to name DDG-128, a powerful Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, after Ted Stevens. May this ship bearing his name continue his remarkable legacy for decades to come and may her crew gain inspiration for their missions from one of our country’s truly great men." “During WWII, Senator Stevens earned the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Yuan Hai Medal, and the Air Medal for his selfless and brave service as an Army Air Corps pilot. In addition to his notable military career, Senator Stevens was a public servant, a mentor, and a dear friend whose dedication and commitment to Alaska was nothing short of extraordinary,” said Senator Murkowski. “I commend Secretary Spencer and the U.S. Navy for naming a future Arleigh Burke-class Destroyer, the USS Ted Stevens, in his honor—a remarkable acknowledgement of the service, sacrifice, and life of our Uncle Ted.” “The Arleigh Burke-class of destroyers is one of the toughest and most capable warfighting tools our Nation produces, characteristics which also define my dear friend, the great Senator Ted Stevens,” said Congressman Young. “It is my honor to join my Senate colleagues and Secretary Spencer in announcing the naming of an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer as the USS Ted Stevens. From his service as a pilot in the Pacific Theater during WWII flying over the Hump, to his fierce advocacy for Alaska and our Nation, Ted always exemplified American patriotism. He dedicated much of his adult life in service to our Nation, and I hope that this ship continues to embody his legacy and its name gives her crew the inspiration needed to fulfill her missions.” Background (information provided by U.S. Navy): Arleigh Burke-class destroyers conduct a variety of operations from peacetime presence and crisis response to sea control and power projection. The future USS Ted Stevens (DDG 128) will be capable of fighting air, surface and subsurface battles simultaneously, and will contain a combination of offensive and defensive weapon systems designed to support maritime warfare, including integrated air and missile defense and vertical launch capabilities. The ship will be constructed at Huntington Ingalls Industries’ Ingalls shipbuilding division in Pascagoula, Miss.. The ship will be 509 feet long, have a beam length of 59 feet and be capable of operating at speeds in excess of 30 knots. ###
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Sullivan Statement on Secretary of Defense Mattis WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to news that Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis will retire in February 2019. “I’m disheartened by the impending resignation of Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis. His decades of service to our nation – from a Marine Corps second lieutenant to our 26th Secretary of Defense – embodies all that makes this country truly great. “I would like to personally thank Secretary Mattis for his unwavering voice on the importance of allies, his resolute dedication to rebuilding our under-resourced military, and inspiring the next generation of American warriors who wear our nation’s uniform. “America is stronger and our military is more capable and lethal because of Secretary Mattis. And though he would never acknowledge it, history will one day record that Secretary Mattis was a once-in-a-generation Secretary of Defense. Semper Fidelis, Mr. Secretary.” ###
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Sullivan Statement on U.S. Withdrawal of Troops from Syria WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the United States decision to withdraw troops for Syria: “I have supported the Trump administration’s foreign policy across a number of areas: its tougher approach on China and Russia, its strategy to counter malign Iranian influence in the Middle East, and its robust military strategy to defeat ISIS. “Yesterday’s abrupt about-face to withdraw our limited force presence in Syria, however, is a decision I do not support. It could lead to the resurgence of ISIS – a major national security threat to the United States. It will likely create a vacuum in the region that will be filled by Russian and Iranian forces, or their proxies, increasing their influence in the Middle East at America’s expense. “There are no easy answers to the many national security challenges throughout the Middle East. Our troops should not be in Syria indefinitely. What is most troubling about yesterday’s decision however, is that it undermines the Trump administration’s own very effective Iran strategy which has put tremendous pressure on the leaders of Iran – the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. I fear that this decision will increase Iran’s arc of influence, from Iraq and Syria to Lebanon, which will enhance its ability to threaten our national security interests, and those of our allies, including Israel. “Going forward, the President should, at minimum, consider establishing a small U.S. counter-terrorism force in the region that can defend America’s national security interests against ISIS or Iranian threats should the need arise, which it likely will.” ###
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Alaska Delegation Commends Milestone for Responsible Energy Development on the Coastal Plain WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, Rep. Don Young, and Gov. Michael J. Dunleavy (all R-Alaska) today issued the following statements after the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) released the draft environmental impact statement (EIS) for the oil and gas leasing program on the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). “One year ago, Congress directed the Department of the Interior to open the Coastal Plain for responsible energy development, and today marks a major step forward to making this a reality,” Murkowski said. “I appreciate the extensive time and attention the Department has dedicated to gather and consider feedback from all Alaskans, particularly the Inupiat and other stakeholders in the Alaska Native community. This input and cooperation will ensure we build a strong leasing program that helps us realize our tremendous energy potential without harming our environment or way of life.” “I appreciate all the hard work and diligence the Department of Interior undertook to produce this draft Environmental Impact Statement in line with Congress’s statutory mandate from last year’s tax bill,” Sullivan said. “I am particularly pleased to see the serious and necessary considerations for the porcupine caribou that migrate through the region, as well as the abundant level of stakeholder input — including from the Alaska Natives in the area, the vast majority of whom support responsible drilling in the 1002. This Draft EIS brings us that much closer to unleashing America’s energy potential, filling up the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, boosting our economy, and providing good jobs for Alaskans, all while protecting the ecosystem in ANWR’s 1002 as we’ve done on the rest of Alaska’s North Slope for over 40 years.” “I’ve fought for a long time to open the 1002 Area for oil and gas development, and this is a critical step toward reaching that goal. I want to thank Secretary Zinke and Assistant Secretary Balash for their hard work in producing this draft EIS, and look forward to continuing to work with DOI in 2019 to complete the assessment process,” Young said. “Opening the 1002 Area will allow Alaska to be a leader in energy development so we can continue the Trump Administration’s efforts to make our country energy independent.” “This is a significant milestone in Alaska’s long journey to responsibly explore and develop the 1002 area in ANWR,” Dunleavy said. “The potential oil discovered will spur new jobs and investments for generations to come, extending the life of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.” The draft EIS will be published in the Federal Register on December 28, opening a 45-day public comment period that will close on February 11, 2019. Public hearings will be held throughout Alaska and in Washington, DC. More information is available here. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. She authored the second title of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which Congress passed exactly one year ago. The Act allows surface development of 2,000 federal acres of the non-wilderness Coastal Plain (0.01% of ANWR) for responsible energy development, which could bring an estimated 10.4 billion barrels of oil to market. New production from the 1002 Area will refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System while also creating high-paying jobs, generating billions of dollars in revenues for the state and federal treasuries, keeping energy prices affordable for families and businesses, and strengthening national energy security. ###
12.18.2018	12.18.18 Sullivan Votes Against FIRST STEP Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting against the FIRST STEP Act. The legislation would reform the federal prison system and modify several federal sentencing provisions – which may allow certain violent and drug criminals to be eligible for early release, and would reduce sentences for serious repeat drug traffickers. Sullivan Outlines His Vote Against the FIRST STEP Act (click here or image to watch). “While I support some of the broader tenets of criminal justice reform, I could not in good conscience vote for this bill,” said Senator Sullivan. “Given the complexities Alaska is facing with criminal justice reform, collectively known as SB91 in Alaska, along with skyrocketing crime rates and an evolving opioid and drug crisis, I cannot ignore the harsh realities Alaskans are facing by voting to reduce prison time for offenders who are compounding this crisis.” BACKGROUND: Senator Sullivan has made addressing Alaska’s opioid epidemic and crime wave a top priority. In August 2016, Sullivan convened the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis, an important gathering of federal, state and local community leaders dedicated to tackling the many challenges associated with the growing opioid and heroin epidemic. That summit, which largely focused on issues of addiction, recovery and community, was very productive – with hundreds of Alaskans gathering to listen, gain inspiration, learn and exchange ideas. Federal officials from several different agencies attended to hear the many obstacles Alaskans face when in recovery, as well as witness the indomitable spirit of Alaskans who have overcome those obstacles. In August 2018, Sullivan held another Wellness Summit – this time focused not only on Alaska’s addiction epidemic, but on drug trafficking and the associated crime wave that is victimizing so many Alaskans. The Alaska Wellness Summit 2.0: Confronting Alaska’s Crime Wave once again feature a prominent group of federal, state and local leaders and stakeholders to build public awareness, identify opportunities for coordination and cooperation, and highlight Alaska’s unique public safety challenges with federal officials. ###
12.15.2018	12.15.18 Sullivan Statement on Secretary of Interior Zinke ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement in response to news that Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke will be stepping down at the end of the year. “Over the past two years, Alaska has had no better friend than Ryan Zinke. He joins the ranks of Gov. Wally Hickel as one of the great Secretaries of Interior. “From assembling an all-star leadership team led by talented Alaskans, to unleashing American energy dominance — by reversing the previous Administration’s illegal lock ups of Alaska lands which hurt thousands of working men and women and their families, and approving the King Cove Road, Secretary Zinke’s impact at the Department of Interior has been immense. He epitomizes a federal government that is willing to work with Alaska, instead of creating obstacles. “I am very sad to see him leave. His service to our nation, including multiple combat tours as a Navy Seal, has been exceptional. I have no doubt his contributions to our country will continue.”
12.13.2018	12.13.18 Sullivan Outlines Opposition to Yemen War Resolution on Senate Floor “We all want a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Yemen, and we all want an end to the humanitarian disaster in Yemen… I do not believe that either of these goals will be made easier or advanced by less American involvement in the conflict.” WASHINGTON, DC– Yesterday, in a speech on the Senate floor, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) outlined his opposition to S.J. RES 54, a resolution restricting U.S. involvement in the war in Yemen. S.J. RES 54 passed the Senate today by a vote of 56 to 41, with Sullivan voting in opposition. Senator Sullivan Outlines Opposition to S.J. RES. 54 (click here or image to watch). Key Highlights: “(T)he heinous murderers of [Jamal Khashoggi] need to be held accountable. There is no doubt about that.” “We all want a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Yemen , and we all want an end to the humanitarian disaster in Yemen. The reason I voted against the resolution today is because I do not believe that either of these goals will be made easier or advanced by less American involvement in the conflict. To the contrary, if the United States no longer has the ability to help guide the Saudis militarily in Yemen , I believe these two important goals--ending the humanitarian crisis and bringing a peaceful resolution--will actually be harder to reach.” “If we cut off U.S. military assistance to Riyadh and Yemen, you had better believe the one capital in the Middle East that will be cheering the loudest is Tehran--again, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism. Such an action would further embolden Iran and no doubt embolden its proxies, while at the same time our allies, including Israel, would feel less secure.” “There has been a lot of focus on the horrible death of Mr. Khashoggi. Any death is horrible, but let me talk about some other deaths. In the Middle East, in Iraq, we have had over 500 American military members killed and almost 2,000 wounded by improvised explosive devices supplied to Iraqi Shia militias by the Iranians.” “We need to send a strong message to the Saudis, but that message cannot undercut our own national security or those of our allies. The message cannot strengthen what clearly is the biggest threat in the region; that is, Iran, the largest state sponsor of terrorism.” “I voted against this resolution because I still think it is important to keep in mind that the lens through which we need to assess our security interests and those of our allies in the Middle East is through what helps or undermines Iran. I am concerned that this resolution can help them, and that is not good for the United States, it is not good for the war in Yemen , it is not good for the humanitarian catastrophe in Yemen , and it is certainly not good for our allies like Israel.” S.J. RES. 54 (Senate - December 12, 2018) Mr. President, we have been debating for quite some time on the Senate floor the Yemen war powers resolution introduced by my colleagues Senator Sanders and Senator Lee, which would cut off support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen --support that began under President Obama. Surrounding this vote today, many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have expressed extreme frustration with the Saudi Crown Prince, Muhammad bin Salman, especially regarding the death of Jamal Khashoggi, an American-based Saudi journalist murdered in Turkey. I have a lot of respect for the Senators weighing in, making their arguments all day today, including Senators YOUNG, LEE, CORKER, PAUL, GRAHAM, MURPHY, MENENDEZ, and CARDIN--many. We do need to understand what happened, what our intelligence and our government have surrounding this death. I am glad the CIA Director came to the Hill to brief Members. But this debate has taken something of a much more complex turn. Certainly, the heinous murderers need to be held accountable. There is no doubt about that. But what we have been discussing, and what is really being implicated here on the floor--which hasn't really been talked about too much--is the broader issue of U.S. or American presence in the region, not just regarding the current conflict in Yemen but also our broader strategic relationship with Saudi Arabia and our national security interests in the region. My colleagues are justified in their frustration--no doubt I share it as well--with the Saudis, with what is happening, but removing American leadership and oversight from this conflict through this resolution is not the way we should go about addressing this issue. We are trying to execute a policy that both reflects America's values and our national security interests. That is what is being debated here today. We need to send a strong message to the Saudis, but that message cannot undercut our own national security or those of our allies. The message cannot strengthen what clearly is the biggest threat in the region; that is, Iran, the largest state sponsor of terrorism, which almost nobody on the Senate floor has been talking about over the last several weeks. I intend to. Today's vote has meant different things to different Senators. I have watched and listened to floor speeches. I have participated in debates with my colleagues within the Republican Conference and when all the Senators have met when we were briefed by administration officials. I thought I would try to unpack a little bit of some of these different arguments as I have seen them and provide my views. Generally, this debate is focused in three different areas: One, about the constitutional authority--the War Powers Act--that we have actually been undertaking these kind of operations with the Saudis in Yemen . The other is limiting and ending U.S. assistance to Saudi operations--U.S. military assistance--in Yemen . Finally, some Senators have been focused on downgrading the U.S. relationship with the Saudis because of what has been happening both in Yemen and with the Khashoggi murder. First, let me talk about the constitutional arguments on the War Powers Act; that the Trump administration needs congressional authority, either pursuant to the War Powers Act or, more important, pursuant to article II of the U.S. Constitution, to conduct military operations in support of Saudi Arabia's military goals in Yemen. Senator Lee has done a great job of pressing this issue. There are many issues on which I agree with Senator Lee of Utah. He is clearly one of this body's most knowledgeable and passionate Members in safeguarding constitutional prerogatives, but in this case, I simply disagree with him and the other Senators whose views I view as way too restrictive on the Commander in Chief's ability to utilize our military. If we set the precedent that even an operation such as the refueling of aircraft of allied countries, not even occurring in a war zone, needs congressional authority either through the War Powers Act or article II, we would severely limit the executive branch's ability to direct international crises and safeguard our global national security interests. I believe the notion that refueling allied aircraft constitutes hostilities would be an unworkable precedent and is a stretch of the term. I have also been skeptical of Senate attempts to vote to remove Presidential authority on our military operations once those operations have begun. For example, we had a debate on military operations and the authority of our military to operate in Afghanistan, which I believe sends the wrong message to our troops. It is a precedent that once hostilities begin, we don't have the backs of our forces. I think that is also a dangerous precedent. That is not to say this is not an important debate. It is certainly an important debate. Other Members such as Senator Kaine have talked about the importance of the issue of military authority, but with regard to this discussion, I think it is too limiting. Let me talk about the second major issue involved that most Senators have been focused on: whether to vote to affirmatively end U.S. military assistance to Saudi Arabia and their actions in Yemen and whether and how, in doing so, it will help end the humanitarian disaster going on there. I compliment Senator Young and Senator Murphy, who have been making the case passionately on this topic with much expertise. Clearly, they and this body have been focused on two goals: We all want a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Yemen , and we all want an end to the humanitarian disaster in Yemen. The reason I voted against the resolution today is because I do not believe that either of these goals will be made easier or advanced by less American involvement in the conflict. To the contrary, if the United States no longer has the ability to help guide the Saudis militarily in Yemen , I believe these two important goals--ending the humanitarian crisis and bringing a peaceful resolution--will actually be harder to reach. That is not just my view; that was the view of Secretary Mattis and Secretary Pompeo when they came to brief all 100 Senators 2 weeks ago. In particular, Secretary Mattis knows the region and certainly knows about how hostilities end and begin in the region. The basis of their arguments--with which I agree--was, first, there is no doubt the Saudis have prosecuted the war badly, but both the Obama administration's Department of Defense and the Trump administration's Department of Defense have worked hard to minimize casualties. Does anyone actually believe the situation in Yemen will improve without U.S. assistance and guidance? The question almost answers itself. Having our military involved has helped the Saudis improve their coordination and improve their targeting to minimize civilian casualties. Having our military involved has helped the Saudis manage disagreements between them and their Gulf coalition partners. These partners also play an important role in helping to bring an end to this war. Having our military involved has also helped provide critical leverage as we move into the hopeful peace negotiations underway in Sweden as we speak. Yemen's Government and the Houthi rebels have evidently agreed to a prisoner swap, which could include thousands of prisoners and could be the beginning of a diplomatic breakthrough. I had the opportunity to talk with Secretaries Mattis and Pompeo this weekend. Both said this would be exactly the wrong time, at a key diplomatic moment, to have the United States limit and end its military assistance to Saudi Arabia. I know sometimes people don't like to think this way, but military strength and leverage is often critical--critical to successful diplomatic negotiations. For the first time, there is promise--promise in negotiations in Sweden. All of us want that to succeed. However, I believe we undermine our chances of success in these diplomatic efforts if Congress forces the United States to end military assistance to the Saudis. We also have an even more direct and real national security interest in the region. Yemen is an important front in the war on terror: It is the home to al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, AQAP. They have attempted multiple times to directly attack our homeland. They were responsible for the attack on the USS Cole that killed 17 sailors and severely wounded 39 others, and they were responsible for the 2015 massacre at Charlie Hebdo's offices in Paris. Limiting our military involvement in Yemen could pose significant risk with regard to AQAP that I believe would be unacceptable for the American people. The third line of argument we have seen on the floor and many have been discussing goes much broader than just the relationship between our military involvement in Yemen and really implicates the entire U.S.-Saudi strategic relationship. It is the desire of a number of my colleagues to use this debate and the despicable Khashoggi murder as an opportunity to fully downgrade this decades-old strategic relationship. The Saudis are difficult partners, no doubt. They have been for decades. Last week, when I was presiding, Senator Rubio gave an excellent speech saying that he believed the Saudis are testing the limits of their relationship with the United States and that we should look to draw some hard lines and recalibrate elements of our relationship while demanding improvements in other areas. I agreed with much of Senator Rubio's speech, including his conclusion, like mine, that we should not be cutting off our military assistance to the Saudis in Yemen because it would do much more harm than good. Nevertheless, some Senators have argued for much more downgrading of the U.S. relationship with Saudi Arabia. In fact, so much of this has been exclusively focused on the Saudis, with no other reference to any other country in the Middle East, that it seems this debate on the floor has been in a vacuum, but as we know, there are a lot more countries in the region, including the world's biggest sponsor of state terrorism, Iran, which nobody is talking about. We should be talking about them because, in fact, the war in Yemen began when Tehran-backed Houthi rebels seized power in 2015. Again, there is not a lot of discussion about how it began. Tehran is trying to establish a Hezbollah-like entity on the Arabian Peninsula in Yemen , including increased capabilities to target cities in Saudi Arabia with ballistic missiles supplied by Iran. This is all part of Iran's broader strategy in the region to encircle our traditional allies--whether Saudi Arabia, Gulf Arab States, and of course Israel--with proxy fighters throughout Syria, Lebanon, Yemen , and close relationships in Iraq. Yet no one in this debate seems to want to talk about Iran. I thought I would do so for a minute. Let's talk about the humanitarian crisis in Yemen . U.S. humanitarian aid has totaled almost $697 million in the past 14 months. Yes, Saudi Arabia could do a much better job, but they have invested well over $1 billion to try to end the suffering. Iran--the country which started the war, the country nobody on the Senate floor is talking about--not a dime to relieve the suffering. Sure, they have supplied weapons and ballistic missiles in the tens of millions of dollars but nothing to relieve the suffering. If we cut off U.S. military assistance to Riyadh and Yemen , you had better believe the one capital in the Middle East that will be cheering the loudest is Tehran--again, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism. Such an action would further embolden Iran and no doubt embolden its proxies, while at the same time our allies, including Israel, would feel less secure. As this debate has carried on in the Senate, with no one talking about the largest state sponsor of terrorism, I have found it very troubling because the lens through which we need to view security in the Middle East is through Iran. Although we have dissatisfaction and frustration with some of our allies, we must remember the most significant and serious threat in the Middle East continues to be Iran. There has been a lot of focus on the horrible death of Mr. Khashoggi. Any death is horrible, but let me talk about some other deaths. In the Middle East, in Iraq, we have had over 500 American military members killed and almost 2,000 wounded by improvised explosive devices supplied to Iraqi Shia militias by the Iranians. Let me say that again: Over 2,000 Americans killed and wounded by the largest state sponsor of terrorism. Yet nobody seems to talk about that. Yes, one death of an American journalist is horrible. Over 2,000 American dead and wounded is really horrible. Where was the outrage about those deaths? Where was the outrage about those murders? Where were the editorials about those murders of American citizens? The previous administration wasn't focused on those because they were focused on the Iran nuclear deal. All I am saying is, in this debate, nobody is talking about the real enemy of the United States--the Iranians, who are watching this debate and smiling because no one is talking about them. So I thought it was important to come down and say: Some of us are. Some of us know you are behind the war in Yemen . Some of us know you continually say you want to wipe Israel off the face of the Earth. Some of us know the Iran deal only emboldened you. What we need to keep in mind is, yes, we have difficult partners. No doubt the Saudis are difficult. They are not perfect by any sense of the word. But this is a difficult region, and these are difficult issues, and if we think we can debate Yemen and our help there without talking about the Saudis and the Iranians, who started the war and are trying to circle our different allies, including Israel, and think somehow that this debate is not emboldening them more, I think we are misguided. I voted against this resolution because I still think it is important to keep in mind that the lens through which we need to assess our security interests and those of our allies in the Middle East is through what helps or undermines Iran. I am concerned that this resolution can help them, and that is not good for the United States, it is not good for the war in Yemen , it is not good for the humanitarian catastrophe in Yemen , and it is certainly not good for our allies like Israel. ###
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Air Force Recommends Additional F-22 Raptors be stationed at JBER WASHINGTON, DC –The U.S. Air Force announced on Friday that it is recommending the operational F-22 Raptors formerly housed at Tyndall Air Force Base (AFB) in Florida, be accommodated at other operational bases across the country, including at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER), Alaska. "We have recommended that the best path forward to increase readiness and use money wisely is to consolidate the operational F-22s formerly at Tyndall in Alaska, Hawaii and Virginia, and make the decision now to put the next three squadrons of F-35s beyond those for which we have already made decisions at Tyndall," said Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson in a recent press release. On October 10, Hurricane Michael hit the gulf coast and damaged 95 percent of the facilities at Tyndall AFB, including the base’s hangars and flights operations buildings. The Air Force is recommending that Congress use supplemental funding for rebuilding the base to prepare to receive the F-35 Lightning II fighter at Tyndall. “Hurricane Michael was a tragedy that caused catastrophic damage to Tyndall AFB and my prayers continue to be with those affected,” said U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK). “Last week though, the Air Force took an important step in recommending the rebuilding Tyndall AFB for its new future, and, at the same time, making our F-22 fleet more mission-capable. Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson stands ready to support additional F-22s, and Alaskans stand proud in welcoming our new airmen and their families to our great state.” Senator Sullivan worked to include language in the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act to require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review optimal squadron sizes and locations for the limited quantity of F-22s in the Air Force. On October 10, 2018, Senator Sullivan held his first hearing as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support to receive testimony on Air Force readiness. During his opening statement, he referenced the completed GAO review of the F-22 and asked questions about consolidating the F-22 fleet later in the hearing. Alaska is the hub of air combat power for the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic and will boast over 100 fifth generation, combat-coded fighters with two squadrons of F-35s anticipated to arrive at Eielson AFB beginning in 2020, joining two squadrons of F-22s already based at JBER. Click here for more information on the Air Force proposal to Congress. ###
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Sullivan Welcomes Revised Definition of WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), released the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) proposed revised definition of the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “I welcome the EPA’s long awaited proposal to restore power to states and protect land owners – and hardworking Alaskans – from the confusing and burdensome federal overreach of the last Administration’s WOTUS rule,” said Senator Sullivan. “If a landowner or a farmer has to hire a lawyer for months of work against an impenetrable and glacial bureaucracy – at the cost of thousands of dollars – just to understand whether they can fill in a ditch or build a basic structure, it doesn’t take a genius to figure out that doesn’t work, especially in Alaska. The EPA’s proposal offers a path for a more reasonable, statutory based interpretation of the Clean Water Act. I hope we can continue this progress and finalize a rule that clearly allocates state and federal authority to adequately protect our watersheds and resources, without unnecessarily burdening Alaskans and our economy.” Background Information On April 6 and April 8, 2015, Senator Sullivan chaired Environment and Public Works Subcommittee field hearings in Anchorage and in Fairbanks on the impacts of the previously proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. On April 30, 2015, Senator Sullivan, along with Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Joe Manchin (D-WV), introduced the bipartisan Federal Water Quality Protection Act (S. 1140) to direct the EPA and Corps to issue a revised WOTUS rule that protects navigable water from water pollution, while also protecting farmers, ranchers and private landowners. On May 19, 2015, Senator Sullivan chaired a subcommittee legislative hearing on S.1140 The Federal Water Quality Protection Act. This bill would have withdrawn the WOTUS rule and required EPA to more appropriately define what bodies are Waters of the United States. Witnesses included: Andrew Lemley, Mark Pifher, Pat Parenteau, Robert Pierce, Susan Metzger. On October 9, 2015, Senator Sullivan issued a statement on the nationwide stay of the EPA’s previous WOTUS rule. On September 30, 2015, Senator Sullivan chaired a subcommittee hearing titled “Oversight of the Army Corps of Engineers’ Participation in the Development of the New Regulatory Definition of ‘Waters of the United States.’” On May 24, 2016 Senator Sullivan chaired a subcommittee hearing titled “Erosion of Exemptions and Expansion of Federal Control –Implementation of the Definition of Waters of the United States.” Witnesses included: Damien Schiff, Don Parrish, Valerie Wilkinson, William Buzbee, Scott Kovarovics. On February 28, 2017, Senator Sullivan attended a meeting at the White House where President Trump signed an executive order that begins to roll back the EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. On April 26, 2017, the EPW committee held an oversight hearing titled “A Review of the Technical, Scientific, and Legal Basis of the WOTUS Rule.” At the hearing, Chairman Barrasso called for the withdrawal of the fundamentally flawed rule. Witnesses testified that the 2015 WOTUS rule is not supported by the Corps’ experience and expertise, scientific studies, or the law. On June 27, 2017, Senator Sullivan shared his views on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) efforts to withdraw and rewrite the overreaching Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. On September 27, 2017, Senator Sullivan, along with committee members Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Boozman (R-AR), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Richard Shelby (R-AL), sent a letter to the EPA and Corps in support of the proposed withdrawal of the 2015 WOTUS rule. Background Documents WOTUS Revision Overview WOTUS Key Changes WOTUS Economic Analysis ###
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Sullivan Recognizes All Alaskans for Their Remarkable Response to Earthquake Sullivan Recognizes All Alaskans for Their Remarkable Response to Earthquake WASHINGTON, DC — Last week, as part of his “Alaskan of the Week” series, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recognized all Alaskans for their remarkable response to the November 30, 2018 earthquake the shook Southcentral Alaska. Sullivan honoring all Alaskans for their response to the November 30th earthquake (Click image or here to watch, click here to download). EARTHQUAKE IN ALASKA -- (U.S. Senate – December 6, 2018) Mr. President, it is Thursday afternoon, and it is the time of the week when I usually come down to talk about one of my constituents or some Alaskan who is doing a great thing for their community or the State or the country. I call that our Alaskan of the Week. I am going to suspend that this week because, to be perfectly honest, I think every one of my fellow Alaskans deserves a shout-out. Maybe they are all Alaskans of the Week this week for what happened and, then, their reaction to what happened in Alaska last Friday. The country read about it, but it is the earthquake--the very significant earthquake--that my State and my hometown of Anchorage just went through. Mr. President, as you know, last Friday morning, at 8:29 a.m., the citizens of Southcentral Alaska, which includes Anchorage and the Mat-Su Valley, were doing what they always do on a Friday morning. People were in their offices, driving to work, drinking coffee at home, or maybe taking a run on many of the paved trails throughout our wonderful city. Students were either in school or almost getting to school, sitting at their desks with pencils and pens in hand, and then the shaking began. It felt like it went on forever. I was here in DC. My wife was at our home in Anchorage. She sent me a text and said: We are having a big, massive earthquake. And we did. It was 7.0 on the Richter scale, which is a big earthquake--a big earthquake even for Alaska. Moments later, another earthquake measuring 5.8 on the Richter scale hit. The epicenter was very close to downtown Anchorage, about 7 miles north. People all across the area ran out of their houses, their offices, and dove under their desks. Roads collapsed, pipes broke, and ceiling tiles came crashing down. Household goods cracked. Kitchens all across the State looked like they had been invaded by violent giants. Thousands of people lost power, including my home in Anchorage. Senator Murkowski and I and Congressman Young were here in DC. I am going to talk about that a minute. We went home soon after to see what happened, to see the damage. You saw the previous slide there. Senator Murkowski and I were out reviewing and assessing some of the damage. This is a photo of an on-ramp to Minnesota Avenue, actually leading to the airport. That collapsed completely. That is how people get to the airport. Vine Road in the Mat-Su Valley, a major thoroughfare there, completely, essentially, imploded. Houses and businesses were shook dramatically. There is another picture of Vine Road there. That is the road that you just saw. It was rush hour in Alaska. Unfortunately, we are having a lot of problems with homes and businesses. This is a photo of just one of the hundreds of businesses, ceilings collapsing, entire offices ruined, and schools. The schools throughout the State suffered a lot of damage. In libraries, there were not just shelves collapsing. Books fly off the shelves when you have a 7.0 earthquake. There is another photo of some of the schools with ceilings collapsing and rebar coming out. This is a classroom. In my view, just having been out there for a couple of days back home, there is at least hundreds of millions of dollars of damage that we saw, and it is still happening. When you have an earthquake of this magnitude, you have aftershocks, which are also very stressful and can be big and can do more damage. We have had over 2,700 aftershocks in the Anchorage Ball. This is the Anchorage Ball right here. Twenty of them have been over 4.0, and five have been over 5.0. That is a big earthquake--a 5.0 earthquake. So we have had five more of those. That is stressful, as you can imagine. People are tired. The first night after the earthquake, nobody was sleeping because of the number of aftershocks. When I was home, I felt a number of these, but Alaskans are resilient. They have grit. They have spirit. They are tough. The phrase going around to describe the State right now is ``shaken''--certainly, still shaken, still going on today--``not broken.'' There is frustration, and the country is going to need their help to rebuild. I have no doubt that is going to happen here. Here is the amazing thing. I think it is a Christmas miracle. You saw that destruction. You saw that at rush hour--kids in all of these classrooms, and there were no fatalities, not one death. You can rebuild a road, and you can rebuild a school, but if we were burying our kids right now, this would be a very, very different tragedy. Remember, just going to work, it was dark. It is dark in Alaska in the morning. It is dark during a lot of the day now in Alaska. It was cold, and yet there were no fatalities and very few injuries. So what happened? How did that happen? Somebody asked: Where is the positive story here? Well, we get a lot of earthquakes in Alaska. This is just a chart that shows, from a couple of years ago, what kind of earthquakes we get. The Presiding Officer knows I come and talk about my State a lot, but here are just a few stats on earthquakes. Alaska is home to the second largest earthquake ever recorded in history--the 1964 Great Alaskan Good Friday earthquake, registering a magnitude of 9.2 on the Richter scale. It lasted almost 5 minutes, if you can imagine that. Then we had a huge tsunami that killed dozens and dozens of people. Eleven percent of all of the world's recorded earthquakes are in Alaska. Three of the eight largest earthquakes the world has ever seen have been in Alaska, and 7 of the 10 largest earthquakes in the United States were in Alaska. One earthquake registering a magnitude of 7 to 8 on the Richter scale happens every year in Alaska, but they don't normally happen in big, populated areas. There have been six earthquakes registering a magnitude from 6 to 7 on the Richter scale, but, again, not near the major cities. Our State is so big that we have a lot of these, and nobody gets hurt. Speaking of getting hurt, earthquakes of this size--a 7.0, even a 6.0, even a 5.0--when they are near population centers, normally, in other parts of the world, they do a lot of damage--and they certainly did a lot of damage in Alaska--but, unfortunately, they also take lives. For example, last year in Indonesia, there was an earthquake registering 6.9 on the Richter scale that killed almost 500 people. It is not just in developing countries. In New Zealand in 2011, there was an earthquake registering 6.3 on the Richter scale that killed over 150 people. As I said, we were fortunate that there were no deaths. So what is part of the reason for that? Given how many earthquakes we have had over the years, we have learned a lot. The first thing we learned is about building codes. Fortunately--again, thank God--we had no buildings collapse. We have a lot of structures--homes, businesses, schools--that have severe structural damage, but a collapsing building is where you get a lot of deaths. With strong, strict building codes, particularly after the 1964 earthquake, that helps to prevent that. It is also people who are resilient, tough, and trained. I want to talk a little bit about this because I have no doubt this is why we had no fatalities. The group I really want to do a shout-out to--and I am just so proud of them--are the students and the teachers who were there in the beginning of the morning. I went through some of the schools just in the last few days, such as Houston Middle School and the elementary school in Eagle River. These schools just look like someone had completely exploded them inside. Yet these kids--young men and women--acted calm, heroic, and, most importantly, they did what they have been trained to do. In Alaska, because we have so many earthquakes, the kids go through earthquake training all the time. They duck and cover under their desks. There is a video that has kind of gone viral because I know other kids in the country are looking at it. It is actually from Mr. Benice's class, right when it happened. He is a teacher at the Mears Middle School in Anchorage. The video was on because he was supposed to capture his lesson Friday morning. He is a grad student, and he had to film the class and what he was teaching for his studies. What the video captured, instead, were the students who are trained to react in ways that it is remarkable how automatic it was. After they saw this in Alaska, one reporter called these kids in this classroom ``a well-oiled machine.'' What am I talking about? If you watch it, the kids are sitting in their class. The teacher is talking, and you see a little bit of shaking. Boom. Then, every kid, without being told, knew exactly what to do. They were under their desks. Then, you see a lot of shaking, and, then, you see debris starting to come down. If you are not under a desk, you could be seriously injured or even killed by some of what is coming from the ceiling or worse. In Houston Middle School, when Senator Murkowski and I were touring, there were cinder blocks that were broken and shot out from the ceiling and the wall in these classrooms. Students are in there, but they were trained, and they were ducking and covering. In the video from Mr. Benice's classroom, after the shaking was over--it was about a minute, which seems like an eternity when you are in it--a student can be heard asking: ``Will they cancel school today?'' Mr. Benice replied: ``Well, that is probably not the first thing we need to be worrying about right now.'' Yesterday, a niece of one of my staff members here in DC said that the video of Mr. Benice's class was being shown in schools in Iowa, including her school, Prairie View Middle School, in Waukee, IA, because the teachers are telling their students: Hey, this why we train, and this is what you do when there is some kind of natural disaster. Literally, I have no doubt that the training that happened in Alaska saved lives. I want to thank those kids, those students. I am so proud, and I really, really, want to thank the teachers of Anchorage and the Mat-Su Valley for doing this training for the kids, month after month and year after year. It obviously paid off. In terms of the reaction that you see, this why, again, I think all of my constituents are the Alaskans of the Week. The first responders, as they do in so many emergencies, our local heroes, reacted immediately. Civil engineers and city and State workers immediately checked on all of these highways and bridges and off-ramps, some of which collapsed, and essential infrastructure, such as hospitals. The Port of Anchorage has had all kinds of structural damage, which is very dangerous in terms of the supply chain for my entire State. The U.S. Geological Survey and NOAA--the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--gave us real-time information about the earthquakes and, importantly, the potential tsunamis. There were tsunami warnings all over Alaska because of how worried we were, being next to the ocean, that that may have triggered a tsunami. Thankfully, that did not happen. The State and local officials and the Anchorage Fire Department received hundreds of calls about damaged gas lines. We did have some house fires because of it. We did lose some houses because of it. Our utilities jumped into action. ENSTAR, which is a natural gas company, went to over 700 houses that had reported gas leaks. For the thousands who lost power, they got power back on in a relatively short time. This is very important because when it is 20 degrees in Alaska and we lose power in the winter, it is not as though we can borrow power from Illinois or Kentucky. We are there, alone and unafraid. We have to produce our own power. Yet our utility companies got power back on in my house in a few hours. Ken Bearman worked for ENSTAR for 46 years before retirement on November 9. Guess what he did as a utility guy. He suited up and came back to work on the job, to just go out and help people. That is the other thing. Alaskans went door-to-door checking on their neighbors. Shelters were immediately opened. Hospitals prepared for what they thought were going to be massive injuries and potentially deaths. Churches and nonprofits were available. That is what Alaskans do. When you live out and alone in part of a State that is pretty remote and communities are remote, that is what you have to do. The other group that kicked into gear--and I do want to thank my colleagues here--was the Federal Government. FEMA launched people almost immediately from the west coast, and we heard from senior Federal officials almost immediately. I want to commend the Trump administration and the rest of the Federal Government for their quick reaction. So many of them are in Alaska now. Almost within an hour, the President of the United States, who was down in Argentina at the G20, tweeted: To the great people of Alaska, you have been hit hard by the big one. Please follow the directions of the highly trained professionals who are there to help you. Your Federal Government will spare no expense. God bless you all. That was from the President. The Vice President, who was also traveling, called me and Senator Murkowski within a few hours. The Chief of Staff of the White House, General Kelly, called. Every one of them wanted to know: What can we do? How can we help? Who do we need to send? The Secretary of Transportation--I want to give a special shout-out to Elaine Chao. She has already checked in with me three different times, and they have people on their way up to help with major infrastructure damages. The same with our FEMA Administrator, who has been a busy man, let's face it. Brock Long did a conference call with me, Senator Murkowski, and Congressman Young. I also want to thank my Senate colleagues. A lot of the press likes to report that we are always battling, that we are always fighting. I don't think that is true, by the way. It is absolutely not true. We have certain things on which we have principled differences, but a lot of action here is bipartisan, and the relationships matter. Within just a few hours, I had several of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, calling, texting, emailing: Hey, Dan, we heard about Alaska. We are seeing these images on TV. We got your back. We are praying for you. And that means a lot. I was talking to Senator Pat Leahy, the Senator from Vermont--a Democrat from Vermont--this morning about this very issue. He has seen a lot here in the Senate. He has been in the Senate for a long time--over four decades. Do you know what he said to me? It is important to remember that when these kinds of things happen, it reminds everybody in this body that we are the United States of America--the United States of America. We take care of each other when we know bad things are happening in different parts of the country. Kind of related again to this reaction, Senator Murkowski and I had the opportunity to go out to the Incident Command Center. Yes, there are times when you don't feel like the different levels of government are working or coordinating. By the way, our first responders include our military, our National Guard, which does such a great job. This Incident Command Center would give any American pride because they were all there, almost like a battle, like a war, like an op center, for the military people watching. It was FEMA, it was Federal, it was the military, it was the State, and it was local, all working like this, literally working together, hand in glove. So to my constituents, we are going to have a long road to recovery, there is no doubt about that, but people are already getting on it. There are going to be frustrations, and we have to work through those. I know people are still scared and nervous and wondering how they are going to pay for all the damage, but we are going to work through that together. For my colleagues here in the Senate, you know, we have had a lot of natural disasters over the last few years--at least since I have been here in the Senate--throughout the country. There were hurricanes in Florida, Louisiana, and Houston, TX. California just went through horrendous wildfires that killed so many of our fellow Americans. This body acts. This body has acted with disaster relief funding. I remember saying to a number of Senators here and to my constituents that when those big--some of those packages have been big in terms of the funding, in terms of the dollars. Colleagues said: Hey, Dan, we need your vote on this. None of that money was going to Alaska, but I remember saying each time: You know, I am voting for these packages. Why? I think it is the right thing to do. Also, let's face it, but for the grace of God go I and my State and my constituents. I live in a State where there are all kinds of natural disasters, such as wildfires, earthquakes, volcanoes, tsunamis. But I think that is the attitude here in general. When bad things happen--particularly natural disasters--to other parts of the country, the vast majority of this body says: Hey, I am going to help. I am going to help. So I am already getting the sense that my colleagues here will make sure that help comes to Alaska as we continue to assess the damage. I also want to just mention to the American people who are watching, including Alaskans or folks from the lower 48, Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young and I held a press conference on Friday afternoon after talking to the Federal Government, working closely with our State leaders, to give people information. It was a national press conference--actually national media coverage--so I took the opportunity--a lot of this was still going on, including aftershocks, and we didn't know. We didn't know if there were 200 people killed. So I asked people watching to pray for their fellow Americans up in Alaska. As I mentioned, yes, we were prepared. Yes, the building codes in Alaska are probably some of the strongest on the planet. I am so proud of our students, who were trained by great teachers. Our first responders were out there in the cold within minutes, let alone others working, and are still doing it, by the way. I have no doubt that part of the reason we had zero fatalities, zero deaths with a 7.0 earthquake in a city of almost 300,000 people--in most parts of the world, there would not be zero deaths; there would probably be thousands. I have no doubt that part of the reason is because of those prayers. So I want to thank anyone and everyone who was praying for Alaska that day because I guarantee you, it mattered. To my fellow Alaskans, I again want to thank you. I think that on Friday and even continuing up to today, you represent the best of America, the best of what we as Americans love to see in our fellow Americans: resilience, toughness, preparedness, and helping each other. That was on display and has been on display, and I couldn't be prouder to represent the great State of Alaska, particularly now. We have a lot of work to do. There are going to be frustrations. It is going to take time. But be assured that we will be working here and at home--Senator Murkowski and I but also with our colleagues--to make our recovery from this massive earthquake as speedy as possible. God bless. ###
11.19.2018	11.19.18 ICYMI: Sullivan Applauds Passage of Coast Guard Authorization Act in Speech on Senate Floor ICYMI: Sullivan Applauds Passage of Coast Guard Authorization Act in Speech on Senate Floor ANCHORAGE, AK — Last week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor following the passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018, a bipartisan and bicameral agreement he championed to reauthorize the Coast Guard for two years. The bill, which is expected to pass the U.S. House following the Thanksgiving holiday, included a number of priorities and provisions of Alaskan interest, including a focus on the Coast Guard’s recapitalization efforts, positioning of Coast Guard assets to respond in the Arctic, a plan to address our nation’s ice breaking capabilities and more. For more information, click here. Of particular interest, the bill also included a decade’s long effort to permanently exempt fishing vessels from the EPA’s incidental discharge regulations – which required permits for even the most basic activity, including vessel deck runoff, hosing out their fish holds, and other minor discharges. As detailed in reporting by Alaska Public Media Network’s Liz Ruskin: “After over a decade of working on [vessel incidental discharge], it’s a huge deal to finally have it done,” United Fishermen of Alaska President Matt Alward said. Sullivan applauds passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 in speech on Senate floor (Click image or here to watch). COAST GUARD REAUTHORIZATION BILL -- (U.S. Senate – November 15, 2018) Mr. President, I want to echo what my colleague from Tennessee just mentioned about a lot of bipartisan accomplishments on the Senate floor over the last several weeks. They are really important ones. He led the charge on the opioid bill which is going to help our entire country and so many others. They don't always get reported in the press, but it is important to make sure our fellow Americans, our constituents, know that is happening. This afternoon, I want to talk about another one that is a really important accomplishment that we were able to achieve on the Senate floor a couple of hours ago; that is, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018. A number of Senators have already been down on the floor to talk about this: John Thune, the chairman of the Commerce Committee, which is where the oversight and responsibility of the Coast Guard lies; Senator Wicker from Mississippi; Senator Carper--so many Senators contributed to this important piece of legislation that we just passed today by almost a vote of over 90 Senators. It is a very bipartisan piece of legislation that we were able to get through the Senate floor today. As you know, this has taken some time. For almost 2 years, we have been working on the Coast Guard bill. A number of us put a lot of time and effort into it. I do want to do a shout out to my staff: Eric Elam, my legislative director; Tom Mansour, a Coast Guard fellow in my office; and Scott Leathard. All of them worked literally for the last year and a half, night and day, on this bill. Again, it is important for America and certainly important for my great State of Alaska. It raises a broader issue. We just celebrated Veterans Day. Our country was rightfully focused on our veterans. There was a lot of focus on the centennial of the Armistice of World War I, the ending of World War I. Often when there is a focus on the armed services, it focuses on the armed services at the Pentagon--Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines--and sometimes the brave men and women in the Coast Guard can be overlooked. They shouldn't be. We all know that. One of the things I tried to focus on in my time in the Senate is making sure they are not. Prior to 9/11, the Coast Guard was probably the only service in the entire U.S. military--because they are a member of the services of the U.S. military--whose members were risking their lives every single day on the job. Post-9/11, with the national security challenges we have, every member of our military--all the services--are risking their lives every day, but the Coast Guard does it day in and day out. Pre-9/11 and post-9/11, men and women in that wonderful service undertake a heroic mission with actions that we see saving American lives and defending our national security. What do they focus on and what does this bill focus on? Well, the bottom line is, this bill is focused on making sure the men and women of the Coast Guard have the resources to do their job. Their job is varied and extremely important. We have all seen the Coast Guard coming out of the sky to rescue us--rescue Americans on seas when they are in trouble; with the hurricanes we have seen over the last couple of years; the heroic pictures of the men and women in the Coast Guard doing thousands of rescues. We see that as part of their mission. They have been described as angels in helicopters. When they show up, it is certainly witnessing America at its very best. We have seen a lot of that. The mission of the Coast Guard also includes ice-breaking, marine environmental protection, port security, and international crisis response. Many members are deployed overseas in places like the Middle East, combating illegal fishing by other nations, protecting American fishermen, protecting Alaskan fishermen, readiness to support the Department of Defense operation. It is a long list. The Coast Guard does it very well. Importantly, the bill we just passed today will significantly help the men and women with this important mission. You and I serve on the Armed Services Committee. Again, what my colleague from Tennessee was talking about is another one of these bipartisan areas of achievement that we have seen in the Senate in the last year, year and a half, consensus on issues like rebuilding our military. We are doing that on the Armed Services Committee through the National Defense Authorization Act that passes the Senate and the House every year. I am certainly honored to be on the Armed Services Committee, where we are working on rebuilding from the cuts of 2010 to 2015. They were almost 25 percent of the Department of Defense budget while national security challenges were increasing all over the world. The other thing we are rebuilding--and it doesn't always get a lot of attention--we are rebuilding the Coast Guard. In essence, this bill we passed today is the NDAA for the U.S. Coast Guard. The recapitalization and rebuilding of the Coast Guard is a core element of the bill we just passed. Let's run through a couple of examples. Like what we just did in the NDAA, increasing the end strength of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, this bill today works to increase the end strength of the U.S. Coast Guard. Importantly, it starts to really accelerate what we are doing in terms of recapitalizing the Coast Guard fleet. For example, this bill authorizes the building of six more fast response cutters--these are critical cutters for the U.S. Coast Guard--and three more national security cutters for the U.S. Coast Guard. These are incredible vessels. They are huge--400-plus feet. I had the honor to go out to a commissioning of the Douglas Munro, one of the new national security cutters. These ships can do it all. They look like big Navy ships that can do it all. That is what these national security cutters are doing. This legislation also helps to streamline the building of Navy ships, which is important as we recapitalize the fleet. It directs the Coast Guard's overall policies. Now I want to talk a little bit about some of the more specific provisions in this bill that relate to my great State, the great State of Alaska, where the Coast Guard and the people of Alaska have a very special relationship. We love the men and women of the Coast Guard. We see them in action all the time, doing heroic missions. We had the largest Coast Guard base in the country in Kodiak, AK, and District 17--that is the Coast Guard district in Alaska--is the largest geographic district in terms of square miles in the entire Coast Guard area of responsibility. There are close to 4 million square miles and over 47,000 miles of coastline just in the State of Alaska. That is more coastline than in the rest of the lower 48 States combined. So the Coast Guard has a huge mission in Alaska--a really important mission in Alaska--and it covers all kinds of territory. Let me just give you, again, a sense of the importance that District 17 and the men and women of the Coast Guard in Alaska have to my constituents, to their fellow Alaskans--a snapshot from District 17's website. It reads, just in an average month in Alaska, that the Coast Guard saves 22 lives, performs 53 assists, and conducts 13 security boardings and 22 security patrols throughout this gigantic area of District 17, just to name a few of its duties, in addition to making sure that illegal fishing in this part of our Nation doesn't occur. I am also grateful that as we look at the recapitalization of the Coast Guard's fleet, the former Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Zukunft, recognized how important Alaska was and sent me a letter, as I am the chairman of the subcommittee in the Commerce Committee that is in charge of the Coast Guard. My team and I put in a lot of effort with Chairman Thune and others in writing this bill and in working on it for the last 2 years. In a letter to me prior to his retirement, the former Commandant of the Coast Guard said that we know there are challenges and that there is a growing mission, from the Coast Guard's perspective, in Alaska. In terms of this recapitalization, we see a lot of these vessels coming to Southeast Alaska. For example, six fast response cutters that are being built and that are part of this bill are slated for Alaska, and two additional patrol boats are for Petersburg and Juneau. The FRCs will be home-ported--two of them--in Kodiak, one in Seward, one in Sitka, and two previously commissioned FRCs will remain stationed in Ketchikan. So those are a lot of assets coming, and I believe there are going to be more. We are going to continue to work on that. I thank the former Commandant and the current Commandant, Admiral Schultz, who has been on the job for about 6 months and has already been to Alaska three times. That is just another testament to recognizing how important the Coast Guard is to the great State of Alaska. I can't thank enough the men and women of the Coast Guard nationally and in my State for the great work they do. There are a number of provisions in this legislation, in addition to the national areas of recapitalizing the Coast Guard, that are actually focused, not surprisingly, on Alaska, given how important the Coast Guard is to Alaska. Let me just highlight a few of them. There is a provision that says the Coast Guard must position assets to respond to any incidences given the national security and economic significance growing in the Arctic region. The Department of Defense is starting to focus on the Arctic region, and, certainly, the Coast Guard is. The provision further states that it requires the Coast Guard, in consultation with the Department of Defense, to report to Congress on the progress being made in implementing the Coast Guard's Arctic strategy and to provide an assessment of the placement of additional Coast Guard assets and cutters in light of meeting those strategic objectives in the Arctic. We know that the demands of a more strategic Arctic are putting a strain on the Department of Defense and the Coast Guard. We believe--I believe--that the provisions in this bill state that the Coast Guard needs to look at that and provide more assets to do the mission if need be. As we are recapitalizing the fleet, it also talks about moving bigger cutters in for smaller ones in region 17 because the Coast Guard must continue to have adequate coverage. You don't want to move one ship out and another ship in and have a gap in coverage. This bill focuses on that--no gaps in coverage. The bill also requires the Coast Guard to deliver a plan to extend the life of the Polar Star, which is the heavy icebreaker that is home-ported in Seattle and has a critical mission. Again, in the NDAA this year, we received authorization for six additional heavy icebreakers--three heavies, three mediums. Yet we need to make sure that we still have coverage with the icebreakers we have as we look to build and deploy the new Coast Guard icebreakers that were authorized in the NDAA this summer. This provision focuses on that. It directs the Coast Guard to conduct persistent, aircraft-based surveillance in terms of monitoring illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing in the Western Pacific. This is a huge problem. We have our 200-mile limit where American fishermen and Alaska fishermen can fish off the coast of Alaska and other States, but we often have pirate fishing going on. We have countries such as China that come and illegally take fish that should be in our economic zone or on the high seas. The Coast Guard does a great job in monitoring and catching this illegal fishing, which harms the oceans and harms our fisheries. This bill underscores how important that mission is and directs the Coast Guard to make sure there is persistent, aircraft-based surveillance in monitoring what we call IUU fishing--illegal, unreported, unregulated fishing--in the Western Pacific. The bill requires the Coast Guard to have tested the capability of oilspill vessel response plans in Alaskan waters and to report to Congress on these capabilities. It also, importantly, focuses on funding to update and maintain the Nation's nautical charts with there being an emphasis on the Arctic, where there is growing vessel traffic. Yet we have nautical charts that are 70 or 80 years old, and some places have never been charted. This bill facilitates the construction of a viable home port for the NOAA research vessel Fairweather in Ketchikan, AK, which is an issue that is important to my constituents, and to be perfectly honest, with regard to NOAA, it has been hanging out there for too long. This bill helps to make sure that the vessel is going to be home-ported where it should be legally home-ported under the law, and that is in Ketchikan. Those are just a few examples of the national aspects of this bill for the Coast Guard's recapitalization effort and of some of the more important provisions that focus on the Coast Guard's special relationship with Alaska. This act also contains many important items for our fishermen and fisheries and our maritime industry throughout the United States, whether in the oceans, whether on the Great Lakes, whether in the rivers that we have. It is very, very important to our fishing community, to our fishermen, and to the maritime workers throughout the country. Of course, this is important to my State. I often refer to Alaska as the superpower of seafood. What am I talking about? Almost 60 percent of the commercial and sport fish that is harvested in the United States of America comes from Alaska. It is billions of dollars in terms of the economic impact for our State. So included in this legislation is important language to permanently address issues that have plagued Alaskan fishermen, American fishermen, and commercial vessel owners and operators of maritime fleets and, importantly, the workers in these important industries for decades--regulatory problems and challenges that these important industries and the important men and women who work in these industries have been struggling with for decades with no long-term solutions. At long last, this bill addresses these--the long-term, permanent solutions. What am I talking about? Currently, our fishing fleets throughout the entire country, as well as vessel owners and operators--again, throughout the entire country in rivers, lakes, and oceans--are forced to comply with a patchwork of burdensome Federal and State regulations that are well-intentioned but often conflicted for incidental discharges off the decks of these ships and for ballast water. Let me start with the incidental discharges. Again, it is very important to my State but very important to any State with regard to the fishing industry and fishermen who work hard every day. If you are a commercial fisherman on a fishing vessel and you have caught some fish and you want to hose down your deck--because let's face it; fishing can be a bit of a messy business--through a long history of requirements and lawsuits, you are forced to report to the EPA these incidental discharges, and you need to get a permit to hose down your deck of a fishing vessel or you will face a fine. Now, you don't have to be a fisherman to recognize that this is ridiculous and that people--Democrats and Republicans in this body--have been trying to address this issue for decades because it creates inefficiency, and it certainly doesn't help the environment. It adds to costs, inhibits economic prosperity, and hurts fishermen and the vessels they operate. This body has introduced short-term fixes for years to try and address this. Those have not been sufficient. So this bill addresses it for good. Let me talk about another provision that tries to cut through the patchwork of burdensome State regulations--again, well-intentioned but often conflicted for ballast water and vessels. Currently, ballast water is regulated by both the Coast Guard and the EPA. They both have separate, inconsistent, and sometimes directly conflicting sets of Federal requirements that are interdispersed with requirements from States. This is literally a patchwork of requirements for vessels that move through different State waters. Let me give you an example. You are the owner-operator of a commercial vessel that is going up the full length of the Mississippi River. You are moving commerce and keeping a strong economy stronger. As you do that, not only must you comply with inconsistent Coast Guard and EPA requirements, but you also will likely have to comply with different and separate requirements regarding ballast water for Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri. You get the picture. It is a patchwork of regulations--all well-intentioned--that has the impact of inhibiting commerce and, most importantly, of inhibiting job opportunities for the men and women in this commerce. Twenty-five States have been regulating ballast water under separate, inconsistent, and sometimes directly conflicting sets of requirements. This has not only inhibited U.S. economic growth, but it also actually makes it more likely that invasive species will accidentally be introduced into this ballast water because the requirements are so different, it is hard to keep up with them. So, again, what this bill does at long last, working across the aisle--and trust me, we worked on this for over a year, on these provisions, Democrats and Republicans rolling up their sleeves, in good faith, getting to work. Because we know how important this is to our constituents, we looked at and focused on getting permanent solutions, not quick fixes--the way these issues have been handled in the past, for over a decade--to these significant challenges. This bill will provide a permanent exemption on incidental vessel discharges for all commercial fishing vessels and commercial vessels under 79 feet in length. This is very important to the American fishing industry, the men and women in that industry, and it is something that they have been advocating for and Members of this body, of both parties, have been trying to get for well over a decade. Well, we did it today. That is important. As I said, without this exemption, small vessel owner-operators would be required, as they have been for years, to get an EPA permit to hose off their decks--not a good use of the EPA and not a good use of the hard-working time of American fishermen. Similarly, this bill provides a comprehensive solution to this patchwork ballast water challenge that I just described, establishing a single, nationally uniform standard for the regulation of ballast water and other vessel discharges, and the EPA and the Coast Guard, with input from the States, will work together. This uniform standard will have the impact of helping our environment and our maritime industry and fishing industry workers and the U.S. economy all at the same time. That is an important accomplishment, and that is why over 90 Senators voted for this bill today. In conclusion, the men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard do heroic work day in and day out. I am honored to chair the subcommittee of the Commerce Committee in charge of the Coast Guard. This bipartisan bill will support them and their incredibly important mission, and it was long overdue. It was long overdue, but we got it done. The Coast Guard's motto, ``Semper Paratus''--``Always Ready''--is a motto I think we can learn from here in the U.S. Senate. It is so appropriate for what they do for us. I want to make sure that the members of the Coast Guard who are watching or learning about this bill know that it is a signal that they have strong bipartisan support from the vast majority of the Members of the U.S. Senate. Hopefully, this bill will get over to the House quickly. We have been working closely with the House on a number of these provisions, and they are going to pass it, we hope, and we will get it to the President soon for his signature. Going forward, we have to work to make sure there is not an almost 2-year delay in getting the Coast Guard Authorization Act passed in the U.S. Senate. When we work together, we can see that it is very bipartisan. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, the Presiding Officer and I both know that the National Defense Authorization Act moves every year. What I think we need to do is make sure, when we start debating the NDAA in late spring, early summer every year, as we do, that we reserve time to move and debate and pass the Coast Guard bill as well. This is an issue I have raised with the leadership on both sides of the aisle, with the chairmen of the Commerce Committee and the Armed Services Committee, and I am hopeful that we can make some progress on that so we are moving a Coast Guard Authorization Act, as we should be, with the other services in the NDAA. But that is for tomorrow. For today, we have an important accomplishment for our country, an important accomplishment for the State of Alaska, and most importantly, an important accomplishment for the men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard who continue to undertake heroic actions day in and day out on our behalf. ###
11.19.2018	11.19.18 Sullivan Encouraged by B.C. Govt’s Efforts to Finally Clean Up & Close Tulsequah Chief Mine ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement in response to news that the British Columbia (B.C.) government will begin taking steps to clean up and permanently close the Tulsequah Chief Mine, which is located 40 miles northeast of Juneau. “I am encouraged to see the B.C. government taking a more active role in the long overdue clean-up of the Tulsequah Chief mine,” said Senator Sullivan. “The announcement that the government intends to move forward and develop a remediation plan is a step in the right direction. As voices on both sides of the border have been asking for years, it’s time for the B.C. government, the state of Alaska, Alaska Native and First Nations communities work together to remove this and other looming threats over our rivers, fisheries, and communities’ health and wellbeing.” SEN. SULLIVAN’S WORK TO ADDRESS TRANSBOUNDARY MINING ISSUE: In November 2017 the Alaska Delegation sent a letter to then-Secretary Rex Tillerson urging the State Department to prioritize transboundary watersheds, bringing this important issue to the Cabinet level. That letter has been followed by sustained efforts on behalf of the Delegations to engage with their Canadian counterparts and work towards accountability for mining projects that may affect transboundary watersheds. Specifically, the Alaska Delegation has repeatedly stressed the need for binding protections, joint water quality monitoring, and financial assurances to ensure mine operators in British Columbia will be held accountable for any impacts to transboundary water quality that might threaten Alaskan livelihoods or subsistence. In February 2018, Senator Sullivan and former Lt. Governor Mallott traveled to Ottawa, Canada, to meet with senior officials in the Canadian government to discuss the transboundary mining issues impacting Southeast Alaska. In August 2018, Senator Sullivan and former Lt. Governor Mallott followed up with a letter to the Minister of Environment Catherine McKenna and Minister of International Trade James Carr, thanking the Canadians for their attention to transboundary mining issues, while continuing to stress several key areas of concern that require attention. In October 2018, the Alaska Congressional Delegation and Governor Bill Walker joined together to urge the Secretary of State to discuss the risks posed by transboundary mining activity during upcoming bilateral meetings between the United States and Canada. In the letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, they expressed Alaska’s priorities for strong and continued engagement between the State Department and the Canadian Government on the management of mining activity affecting Alaska and British Columbia’s transboundary waters. ###
11.14.2018	11.14.18 Sullivan Fulfills Years-Long Commitment to Permanently Exempt Alaska Fishing Vessels from Incidental Discharge Regulations Bipartisan Coast Guard Authorization Bill Passes Senate WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard subcommittee, today applauded the Senate passage of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation he co-authored to support the Coast Guard and its many missions. The legislation, which passed today by a vote of 94 to 6, includes a Sullivan-negotiated provision known as the Vessel Incident Discharge Act (VIDA) to provide Alaska fishing vessel owners and operators relief from a patchwork of overly burdensome and confusing federal and state regulations for vessel ballast water and incidental discharges. The provisions provide a permanent exemption on incidental vessel discharge for all commercial fishing vessels and commercial vessels under 79 feet in length. Without this exemption, small vessel operators and fishermen would be forced to obtain Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) permits for even the most basic activity, including vessel deck runoff, hosing out their fish holds, and other minor discharges. The language also provides a comprehensive fix to a broken regulatory framework by establishing a single, nationally uniform standard for the regulation of ballast water and other vessel discharges. Senator Sullivan applauds passage of the Coast Guard Reauthorization Act of 2018 in speech on the Senate floor (click here to watch). “Plain and simple, this issue – which dates back over a decade – has created nothing but uncertainty for Alaska’s fishermen, diverting attention and resources from running their businesses to complying with needless federal regulations,” said Senator Sullivan. “VIDA will provide Alaska’s fishermen with a long sought peace of mind from the threat of federal regulation. While this issue has taken over a decade to resolve– with a series of 11th hour, temporary extensions over the years – I’m pleased to see Congress provide Alaska’s fishermen with a permanent exemption from these over burdensome regulations.” The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018, a bicameral agreement championed by Senator Sullivan, authorizes increased funding to support the mission and needs of the U.S. Coast Guard through 2019. “The brave men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard do an amazing job protecting the homeland day in and day out and often on a moment’s notice,” said Senator Sullivan. “I am honored to have the opportunity to lead this year’s Coast Guard Authorization, giving our Coast Guard the resources and training they need to complete the many diverse missions they are tasked with. The legislation also includes a number of provisions important to Alaska, including relieving unnecessary burdens on fishermen and boat operators, and advancing the Coast Guard’s ability to operate in the Arctic.” Specifically, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018: Protects and provides for vital assets: Authorizing the Coast Guard to use multi-year contracts to procure three additional National Security Cutters. Expressing that the Coast Guard must position assets to ensure it is positioned to respond to any incidents given the national security and economic significance of the Arctic, and requires the Coast Guard, in consultation with the Department of Defense, to report to Congress on progress being made in implementing the service’s Arctic Strategy, and provide an assessment on the placement of assets and cutters in light of these strategic objectives. Ensuring regions continue to have Coast Guard coverage as vessels or aircraft are recapitalized. Including an amendment sponsored by Senator Cantwell (D-WA) and Senator Sullivan requiring the Coast Guard to deliver a plan on extending the life of the Polar Star, and authorizing funding to execute the plan. Requiring the examination of the feasibility of a Coast Guard ROTC program. Provides regulatory relief: Permanently exempting fishing vessels from incidental discharge regulations. Lessening the logbook requirements on charter fishing vessels, ferries, and certain passenger vessels by allowing the use of a wider variety of logbooks, including electronic records. Requiring a delay of the compliance deadline for the Alternative Safety Compliance Program by three years, should the Coast Guard change course and issue final rules. Reducing burdens on the cost of building new fishing vessels, and lessening regulatory burdens on fishermen and boaters. Enhancing the role of the Commercial Fishing Safety Advisory Committee, which provides relevant stakeholders with increased influence in regulatory matters affecting them. Protects Alaskan resources and stimulates the economy: Directing the Coast Guard to conduct persistent aircraft-based surveillance in monitoring illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in the Western Pacific. Requiring the Coast Guard to have tested the capability of oil spill vessel response plans in Alaskan waters and report to Congress on these capabilities. Authorizing a land exchange to provide for permanent protection of a bird rookery, while providing potential economic development opportunities on Kodiak Island. Giving the Coast Guard more flexibility in choosing which shipyards it uses to conduct vessel alterations and repairs, in an effort to allow more work to stay in Alaska. The legislation also includes provisions from Senator Sullivan’s S. 171, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Amendments and Hydrographic Services Improvement Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2017, which reauthorizes funding to update and maintain the nation’s nautical charts with an emphasis on the Arctic and facilitates the construction of a viable homeport for the NOAA research vessel Fairweather in Ketchikan. ###
10.20.2018	10.20.18 Sullivan Convenes Senate Field Hearing on "The State of Our Salmon" *** To submit public testimony for the record, please email Public_Testimony@sullivan.senate.gov by November 1, 2018. *** ANCHORAGE, AK -- US. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), chairman of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and the Coast Guard, convened a hearing titled “The State of Our Salmon,” on Saturday, October 20, 2018 during the Alaska Federation of Native annual convention in Anchorage, Alaska. Senator Sullivan convening Senate field hearing on "The State of Our Salmon" "From Ketchikan, to Cordova to Kodiak—from Grayling to Emmonak— and everywhere else I travel across our great state—the health of the salmon fishery is always on the forefront of the minds of Alaskans," Senator Sullivan said during the Senate field hearing. "In response to their concerns and many varying theories of what is occurring—whether ocean acidification, the so-called warm water blob, or something entirely different—I called this hearing to review the science behind Alaska’s salmon fisheries. I’m pleased to have an impressive panel of experts here today to discuss these issues, including our federal and state managers." The hearing reviewed the health of Alaska’s salmon fisheries and examined the current data and information necessary for maintaining healthy and sustainable stocks. and included testimony from key federal, state and regional experts. "Using the best science available is an essential tenet for fisheries management, and is necessary for maintaining healthy and sustainable stocks for generations to come. This hearing is intended to examine the current data available and identify information gaps," Sullivan said. "Both the state and federal government have a role in providing that science, in conjunction with the assistance of our academic and other research institutions—and I would argue—the knowledge of the fishermen themselves, who are closest to the resource and most reliant on its bounty for their livelihoods and subsistence needs." Witnesses included: Witness Panel 1 Mr. Sam Cotten Commissioner Alaska Department of Fish and Game 10.20.18_Cotten_Testimony.pdf (91.5 KBs) Mr. Chris Oliver Assistant Administrator for Fisheries National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 10.20.18_Oliver_Testimony.pdf (132.4 KBs) Witness Panel 2 Dr. Milo Adkison Professor and Chair Department of Fisheries, College of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences, University of Alaska Fairbanks 10.20.18_Adkison_Testimony.pdf (65.9 KBs) Dr. Betsy Baker Executive Director North Pacific Research Board 10.20.18_Baker_Testimony.pdf (433.7 KBs) Ms. Karen Gillis Executive Director Bering Sea Fisherman’s Association 10.20.18_Gillis_Testimony.pdf (1.2 MBs) Ms. Katrina Hoffman President and CEO Prince William Sound Science Center 10.20.18_Hoffman_Testimony.pdf (291.9 KBs) Ms. Mary Sattler Peltola Executive Director Kuskokwim River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission 10.20.18_Peltola_Testimony.pdf (130.5 KBs) ###
10.17.2018	10.17.18 ICYMI: Sullivan Convenes First Hearing as Readiness Subcommittee Chairman Air Force Leaders Optimistic, Anticipate Continued Progress in Face of Readiness Challenges WASHINGTON, DC – Earlier this month, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) held his first hearing as the new chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support to explore the Air Force’s efforts to improve its readiness – which has steadily declined over several decades. Senator Sullivan convened the hearing nearly six months since the full Senate Armed Services Committee heard testimony from the Air Force on its current posture in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 budget. He stated, “In those six months a lot has happened. The National Defense Authorization Act was passed with $716 billion in authorized funding. And it didn’t get a lot of press, but 87 U.S. senators voted for that bill…a very bipartisan effort to rebuild our military.” Sullivan Convenes Hearing on United States Air Force Readiness (click image or here to watch). Senator Sullivan continued, “the Air Force of today looks, in some respects, very much like the Air Force of yesterday. And that’s not a compliment. For instance, the average Air Force aircraft is 28 years old. And since Desert Storm, we have 58 percent fewer combat coated fighter squadrons. While this is not a modernization hearing, it is a readiness hearing. And unless we modernize our Air Force for the future, we will put lives at risk, both, on the ground, and in the air in terms of readiness.” Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson said the service is focusing on four elements for readiness recovery: people, readiness, training and cost effective maintenance and logistics. The service’s end strength has increased to 685,000 as a result of timely Congressional appropriations. The Air Force is increasing pilot production from training 1,160 pilots in FY 2017 to 1,311 in FY 2019, and moving to about 1,500 pilots by FY 2022. Of the bolstered pilot production, Secretary Wilson said, “If we’re able to do that and achieve our objectives on retention, we will recover the pilot shortage by 2023, where we will be 95 percent manned.” Senator Sullivan also raised concerns about the readiness of aircraft in the Air Force fleet, specifically the beleaguered F-35, stating that earlier in the week Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis ordered the Air Force and Navy to get mission capable rates up to 80 percent. Senator Sullivan asked about the disparity between military aircraft and commercial aircraft, noting that Delta Airlines has a readiness rate around 86 percent for their fleet. “Why is there such a disparity between military aircraft that are brand new and commercial aircraft,” Senator Sullivan asked. “I know it’s a complex aircraft …but it does seem to me kind of ludicrous that we get new aircraft off the production line and within a month they’re at 65 percent readiness.” John Pendleton, director, Defense Capabilities and Management, United States Government Accountability Office, responded that the Air Force focused too much on F-35 production rather than sustaining the aircraft. He said “it’s causing problems now. The depots are already several years behind. Parts are a problem. And it’s going to be difficult to achieve those kinds of mission capability rates.” Secretary Wilson and Pendleton testified before the subcommittee along with Chief of Staff of the Air Force General David Goldfein. Despite lingering challenges, Secretary Wilson stated in her prepared remarks that “the Air Force is more ready for major combat operations today than we were two years ago. That said, we have a long way to go to restore the readiness of the force to win any fight, any time.” ###
10.11.2018	10.11.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Lisa Sauder WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recognized Lisa Sauder, the Executive Director of Bean's Café in Anchorage, for her continued advocacy and work on behalf of the hungry and homeless. Lisa was honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s “Alaskan of the Week” series. Sullivan Honoring Lisa Sauder as Alaskan of the Week (Click image or here to watch, click here to download). SENATE FLOOR TRIBUTE TO LISA SAUDER – (U.S. Senate – October 10, 2018) Mr. President, as the Presiding Officer knows, I have been coming down here nearly every week--usually Wednesday or Thursday--for the last 2 years to talk about somebody who is making a big difference in my State, the great State of Alaska. I call this person our Alaskan of the Week. Most of the people who visit Alaska do so in the summer--I was honored the Presiding Officer and his family came up to visit this summer--and we know that is understandable, to come up when the Sun is high in the sky, but this time of year is truly magnificent in my great State. To borrow a phrase that is no doubt familiar to many, including some of the pages: Winter is coming. Winter is coming. Every day, the Sun comes up later and sets earlier. Snow is already on the ground in some places in Alaska. In some places in the State, the mountains are dusted--termination dust, we call it--and that dust is quickly turning into deep snow and making its way down the mountains. It will not be long before it spreads out all throughout our communities in Anchorage and other cities. The whole State is crackling with energy to get ready for the long winter, like we do every year. For some, though--particularly for the hungry and the homeless--winter in Alaska can be incredibly difficult and incredibly challenging. Actually, as we all know here, for the hungry and the homeless any time of the year can be incredibly difficult and challenging. In Anchorage, there is a place where everyone, no matter who you are, is greeted with dignity, respect, and a hot meal. The place is called Bean's Cafe, and the person who makes sure it all happens and comes together is Lisa Sauder, the executive director of Bean's Cafe, and Lisa is our Alaskan of the Week. Let me tell you a little bit about Lisa. She was born in Anchorage and moved to the west coast with her parents when she was a young teenager. When she graduated from Pepperdine University with a degree in communications and political science, she was on her way back home to Alaska. ``Alaska always calls you when you leave it,'' she said. ``It's always the place that feels most like home.'' She worked at a local bank and the Anchorage Convention and Visitors Center, where she was able to travel all around the country to talk people into visiting our great State, particularly in the off seasons like fall, like now. Then her husband's job took them to the east coast, where they stayed for some time, but, once again, Alaska beckoned, and they returned. Shortly after coming back home again, Lisa saw an ad to help run Bean's Cafe, and she knew she had to go for it. She knew that passion was in her heart. The fact that it is completely local and completely community supported was a huge lure to her, she said but so was helping and working with the homeless throughout the State. Lisa's uncle, for example, was a Vietnam veteran with mental health challenges after serving in Vietnam. For decades, he lived on the streets in Seattle. She saw the pain that her uncle's homelessness caused her mom and the rest of the family, and of course her uncle, but then he got help at a place like Bean's Cafe, and she also saw the positive impact that not only had on her uncle but the entire family, the entire community. Bean's is an Anchorage institution. It serves breakfast and lunch every day--about 950 meals a day--to the hungry and the homeless. This requires the work of about 120 volunteers a day. People from all across the community come to help out. On any given day, you will see a business executive, maybe a pastor, a construction worker, politicians--so many, from all walks of life--serving food to the homeless and hungry. We have also seen the recipients of that generosity of food volunteering themselves, all of them--such a supportive community--working together to help one another. Bean's is so much more than a place for a meal. It serves as a mailing address for their clients. It is a place where you can call a loved one, a place to get some dry socks, a hat and a coat, warm clothing for the cold winter. You can get help with your VA benefits. You can get help finding a job or it is a place to get out from the cold for a few hours. Lisa said: Oftentimes, the day that someone walks into Bean's Cafe is the worst day of that person's life. And we're there to greet them with compassion and respect. Lisa has also expanded the program to include a very popular program now in Anchorage called Children's Lunchbox, which provides after-school and weekend meals for children. All told, between the meals served at Bean's and for the Children's Lunchbox, under Lisa's guidance, leadership, and passion, more than 700,000 meals were served last year. Lisa loves her job. She loves how supportive the community is. She loves watching people grow and helping them get the help they need--and then their coming back to help others. She said: We're all very fortunate here. We get to help people, [which is a passion]. Not everybody can say that. Lisa's work extends far beyond Bean's Cafe and the Children's Lunchbox. She is also very involved in Alaska's recovery community--recovery from addiction, particularly in the past few years. Anchorage, AK, like the rest of the community, isn't immune to what is happening all across the country with regard to the opioid and heroin crisis. The good news is, we are working in the Senate and in the House on this issue. We just passed a bill, a very important bill, that will help States and communities address this, but we have a long way to go. Too many young people--people of all ages--are being lost to us because of this horrible epidemic, and, unfortunately and very tragically, Lisa's son Tucker, 23 years old, was one of those we lost. She has put the pain--the deep pain of losing her son--to good work. She has turned into a fierce advocate for those suffering from addiction. She talks about Tucker often, wanting people to know that this can happen to anyone. That is why we need to continue to focus. Through her work and the work of so many advocates across the State, people are finally getting the help they need. Lisa said: The peer mentorship that is going on right now is saving lives. So much progress has been made. There are so many people who have really helped to shine a light on the issue. Lisa is such a force for good in my State. She has tenacity, grit, courage, and a huge heart. She is doing so many things. For that, we want to thank Lisa for all she is doing. Congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
10.11.2018	10.11.18 Bipartisan Bill to Tackle Marine Debris Crisis Signed into Law Save Our Seas Act to help communities address the marine debris epidemic affecting America’s oceans, shorelines, and other waterways WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today applauded the signing by President Trump of their bipartisan Save Our Seas (SOS) Act, legislation to address the marine debris epidemic affecting America’s oceans, shorelines, and inland waterways, as well as other coasts across the globe. The Senators – both members of the Senate Oceans Caucus – introduced the legislation in March 2017 to boost the federal government’s domestic and international response to the millions of tons of plastic waste and other garbage that litter our shores and pollute our oceans, endanger wildlife, and disrupt commerce. The bill – which was signed today during a ceremony at the White House – will also foster cooperation between the United States and other nations to confront the crisis worldwide. President Donald J. Trump signs S.3508-Save Our Seas Act of 2018 Thursday, Oct. 11, 2018, in the Oval Office of the White House (click here to watch) “This bipartisan legislation is important for the country, for the world, and certainly for Alaska, which has more coastline than the rest of the Lower 48 combined,” said Senator Sullivan. “The prevalence of marine debris on our shores is a chronic issue. This bill will serve to strengthen the federal response capabilities to marine debris disasters, combat land based marine debris resources, and encourage interagency coordination in stemming the tide of ocean trash and importantly encourage the Trump administration to pursue international agreements with regard to this challenge.” “Everyone from scientists, to journalists, to fishermen, to coastal industries and international corporations are sounding the alarm about plastic trash and other marine debris polluting our oceans. It’s time to protect our precious marine ecosystems and coastal economies from this threat,” said Senator Whitehouse, co-founder and co-chair of the Senate Oceans Caucus. “This bipartisan bill represents an important step forward in addressing the marine debris crisis. Senators Sullivan, Booker, Inhofe and I were proud to pass it in the Senate, and I’m thrilled to see it signed at the White House today.” Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) discuss the enactment of the Save Our Seas Act following today’s bill signing ceremony (click image or here to watch, click here to download). Every year, roughly eight million metric tons of mismanaged plastic waste from land enters the oceans. It then breaks down into tiny pieces that can enter the marine food web and harm fish and wildlife, and wash ashore on even the most remote beaches. The Save our Seas Act will help confront the marine debris crisis by: Allowing the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize funds to assist with cleanup and response. The governor of the affected state may request the NOAA Administrator make this declaration. Reauthorizing NOAA’s Marine Debris Program through FY2022. Its mission is to support research on the sources of marine debris and take action to prevent and clean up marine debris. Encouraging the executive branch to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, support research into improved waste management infrastructure and new materials that reduce the risks of marine debris, examine the causes of ocean debris, pursue new international agreements to address this issue, harness the United States’ trade authority to urge other countries to improve their waste management systems, and to quantify the economic benefits for nations in addressing the crisis. The Save Our Seas (SOS) Act also includes maritime safety provisions from separate pieces of legislation, including: H.R.6175 - Maritime Safety Act of 2018 H.R. 6206, Coast Guard Blue Technology Center of Expertise Act ###
10.10.2018	10.10.18 Building on Recent Momentum, Congress Sends Major Water Infrastructure Package to President’s Desk Sullivan: “Improving our inadequate and deteriorating infrastructure should not be a partisan issue, it should be an issue that unites us” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), is applauding the Senate’s passage of S. 3021, the America's Water Infrastructure Act (AWIA) of 2018, the fourth major piece of bipartisan legislation to make its way to the President’s desk in recent days. The bill was approved today by vote of 99-1 and now heads to the president’s desk to be signed into law. “Improving our inadequate and deteriorating infrastructure should not be a partisan issue, it should be an issue that unites us,” said Senator Sullivan. “In Alaska, these types of investments and reforms are critical not only for the health and well-being of our communities, but also for important economic activities and areas of national security. This comprehensive water resources bill builds upon previous efforts in Congress to rebuild and expand America’s infrastructure, including clean water systems, port maintenance and development, and so much more. Importantly, it includes several key provisions vital to Alaska, including relief for the community of Saint Paul, new authority for tribal consortiums in Alaska to develop water infrastructure projects as non-federal sponsors, language to expedite completion of a feasibility study for the Deep Water Arctic Port at Nome, and other provisions to ensure the federal government realizes its responsibility to provide basic infrastructure for its citizens.” AWIA 2018 provisions championed for Alaska by Senator Sullivan include: Saint Paul Harbor: A resolution to a longstanding cost-sharing error against the City of Saint Paul, AK. Following completion of construction of the St. Paul Harbor in 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers failed to administratively close out the project in a timely manner. This resulted in a retroactive change to the local non-federal match from 10% to 35%. The error threatened the viability of the community and undermined close to four decades of coordinated federal, congressional, state, private, CDQ, and local efforts to develop a fisheries-based economy on Saint Paul Island. Alaska Native Authorities: Ensures tribes, tribal consortiums, as well as Alaska Native Corporations, are on equal footing with tribes in the lower 48 for participation as non-federal sponsors on projects. Arctic Deep Draft Port: Expedited completion of the Army Corps of Engineers feasibility study for the Deep Water Arctic Port at Nome – a study fortified by Senator Sullivan in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act of 2016 (WIIN). Seward’s Lowell Creek Flood Diversion System: Expedited completion of the Army Corps of Engineers feasibility study to replace the Lowell Creek Flood Diversion System in Seward, and a report on the maintenance responsibility until a viable alternative is constructed. Continuing Authorities Program: Increases total amount of funding authorized for the Continuing Authorities Program (CAP), a national program designed to undertake small localized navigation projects without being encumbers by the lengthy study and authorization phases typical of most Corps projects. Due to the high cost of construction in remote areas of Alaska, and the high demand for navigation projects, the CAP is critical to future projects. Non-Federal Cost Share Agreements: Requires the Corps to provide a report to Congress within one year that considers ways in which the Corps can improve and expedite the waiver process for non-Federal cost share agreements. This will be especially important for communities with no economic base, where it can be difficult or impossible to raise this non-Federal match. Mahoney Lake Hydroelectric Project Licensing Act: Includes legislation authored by the Alaska delegation to allow for a stay of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) hydroelectric license for the Mahoney Lake hydroelectric project near Ketchikan for up to 10 years. This extends the ability of the project sponsor to consider and complete the hydroelectric development. Read the text of America’s Water Infrastructure Act here and a section-by-section of the legislation here. ###
10.06.2018	10.06.18 Sullivan Outlines Extensive Process Behind Support for Judge Brett Kavanaugh WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor to discuss the extensive process behind his support for the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. Excerpts from his Senate floor speech are below, and a full transcript can be found here. Sullivan Outlines Extensive Process Behind His Support for Judge Brett Kavanaugh in Speech on Senate Floor (click image or here to watch, click here to download). Voting to Confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “[Judge Kavanaugh] understands the importance of separations of powers and federalism, holds a healthy skepticism regarding the expansive power of federal agencies, and he is a strong protector of the Second Amendment—all issues that Alaskans care deeply about, which is why I focused on them in my discussions with Judge Kavanaugh. I was convinced then, and remain so, that he is well qualified to be a justice on the Supreme Court.” Claims Regarding Alaska Native Rights: “To be perfectly clear, if I believed or saw evidence that Judge Kavanaugh’s views were somehow opposed or hostile to Alaska Natives — a very important population of my state that includes my wife, three daughters, and mother-in-law — I would not support his confirmation. I told Judge Kavanaugh this directly and was satisfied with his response. “Importantly, Senator Murkowski came to the same conclusion in her discussions with Judge Kavanaugh and she said as much in her remarks last night. “ On Allegations of Sexual Assault: “Dr. Ford’s allegations were investigated respectfully and thoroughly by the Senate Judiciary staff and the FBI. Despite her courage in coming forward, none of her allegations were corroborated. The four people Dr. Ford claims were present had no knowledge or memory of any such event, and the others the FBI asked about the alleged incident had no knowledge. One of them, a lifelong friend of Dr. Ford’s, Leland Keyser, said that she didn’t even know Judge Kavanaugh. All of these statements were made under the penalty of perjury.” On Presumption of Innocence: “But I also believe that the presumption of innocence is sacrosanct and a fundamental American principle, whether in a criminal trial, in a Senate committee hearing, or the court of public opinion. I’m convinced that due process should apply as much to the Senate’s advise and consent responsibility as it should in a court of law. “If we lose this basic concept of fairness, then we risk doing irreparable damage to the very foundation of our democracy and core conceptions of American justice, and even liberty. “We do not want a system of guilty until proven innocent in America. Such a principle can even lead to incentivizing false allegations that do lasting damage, especially when coupled with breathless media reports that repeat verbatim such charges. Unfortunately, we have seen this exact phenomenon in the case of Judge Kavanaugh. I am not referring to the allegations of Dr. Ford, which were taken seriously. But in the aftermath of her allegations, some horrendous, and what appear to be patently false claims were made against him. “Such false allegations do tremendous damage to the accused and his or her family. But just as bad, they also risk undermining the credibility of true victims and survivors of sexual assault. “ Not a Binary Choice: “At the same time, I do not agree with some of the comments made on the floor that a vote in favor of Judge Kavanaugh is somehow condoning sexual assault or not believing survivors. As Senator Collins stated yesterday, ‘Nothing could be further from the truth.’” “A bipartisan majority of U.S. Senators — men and women — are likely to vote for Judge Kavanaugh in a few hours. “To mark all of them as somehow not caring about the broader issue of sexual assault in America is not only untrue and affront to them, but undermines the larger cause of working together to combat this issue. “This is not a binary choice. This is not a Republican versus Democratic issue: this is an American epidemic and frankly, it’s an American male issue. The men are the ones who are committing the vast majority of the abuse, and we need the country united to stop it.” Continuing to Work to Combat Sexual Assault: “Finally, again, I applaud the courageous— including the many Alaskans who have flown to D.C. — who have spoken out about this nomination and who have shared stories about their own experiences with assault. I know that this process has brought on fresh pain and difficult memories for so many. I want them to know that from the bottom of my heart, I am committed more than ever to work on combatting sexual abuse and domestic violence and trying to change our culture to one of respect. “Indeed, if there is a silver lining to come out of this contentious confirmation process it is that the awareness and commitment to do much more to combat sexual abuse has been heightened. I have heard this from many of my colleagues in the past few days, including Senators Murkowski, Collins, Harris and Klobuchar, and I certainly am committed to working with all of them and others to make this happen.” ###
10.04.2018	10.04.18 Sullivan-Backed Bills to Combat the Opioid Epidemic Set to Become Law Legislation Lifts IMD Exclusion - which banned Medicaid payments to treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) is applauding the passage of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a bipartisan, bicameral package to address the nation’s unrelenting opioid epidemic that took the lives of more than 72,000 Americans last year – the highest rate in history. The legislation, which represents the work of thirteen House and Senate Committees and includes provisions authored by hundreds of Members of Congress, now heads to the President’s desk for signature. Senator Sullivan Discussing Bipartisan Package to Address Opioid Crisis (click image or here to watch) “This is a huge issue for all of us and a really important one for the state of Alaska. The numbers are staggering: 72,000 Americans – rich, poor, black, white, native, non-native, young, old – died of drug overdoses last year. It’s tragic and extremely hard to comprehend. And this body is finally waking up to this challenge,” Senator Sullivan said yesterday in an impassioned speech on the Senate floor. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act is a multipronged approach that takes a particular focus on wellness, prevention and innovation. The bill takes important steps to reduce illegal drug use and its supply chain – including legislation known as the STOP Act to help stop synthetic drugs from entering the country through the U.S. Postal Service and the reauthorization of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program. The bill also works to support the infrastructure and resources necessary to adequately respond to this crisis, including assistance for states in addressing substance use disorders, support for in-school and early childhood education programs, and increased access to treatment, health professionals, long-distance care, and recovery housing, among other things. “This bill includes very significant funding to address this crisis – billions of dollars. It importantly includes legislation authored by my good friend Senator Rob Portman, the STOP Act – which I was an early cosponsor of – that focuses on stopping the killer-drug fentanyl from coming from places like China and Mexico and killing our people,” said Senator Sullivan. “The bill also includes a provision I authored that gets 5% of the funding to Native Health Organizations. Because, as we’ve all seen, some of the Native organizations in the Lower 48 and Alaska have really strong, far reaching access to some of our rural citizens. So there’s a huge amount of good policy within this bill. While we’re not going to fix this opioid, heroin addiction problem for years to come, we are very focused on it in Congress, in a very bipartisan way. If you’re going through recovery, like I know so many good people in Alaska are, this is very encouraging news.” Importantly, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act also includes a Sullivan-backed provision to lift the decades-old Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion – which restricts states from using federal Medicaid dollars to pay for treatment at residential mental health or substance abuse facilities with more than 16 beds. The final House-Senate opioid package lifts this prohibition for five years so more Americans can access services at inpatient facilities. “In states like Alaska, where in-patient treatment is already significantly limited, the IMD exclusion has been long viewed as a leading barrier to treatment. It’s been identified by hospitals, providers and medical professionals as needing to be reformed in order to improve patient access to life-saving treatment facilities and programs. Lifting this cap will go a long way in helping some of our most vulnerable Alaskans in their time of need,” Senator Sullivan said. Other Provisions in the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act championed by Senator Sullivan: 21st Century Cures Act Funding Extension – Reauthorizes and improves the state targeted response grants from the 21st Century Cures Act to provide funding to Tribes and to improve flexibility for states in using the grants. Includes language championed by Senator Sullivan for a 5% set aside for funding made available through the Act to tribe and tribal organizations. Also provides resources for tribes, including outreach and technical assistances, to encourage grant application participation. Opioid Addiction Recovery Fraud Prevention Act – Includes legislation cosponsored by Senator Sullivan aimed at protecting individuals with opioid use disorder and their families from harmful and misleading addiction treatment programs or products. The provision will hold fraudulent substance abuse treatment programs and recovery centers accountable by empowering the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and state attorneys general to bring enforcement actions to combat such scams. For more information, click here. Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act – Includes legislation cosponsored by Senator Sullivan to help stop dangerous drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil – primarily from China – from being shipped through the postal system drug by traffickers here in the United States, particularly important to addressing the major influx of drugs entering remote Alaskan communities. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act builds off previous efforts to assist in battling the opioid epidemic, including the passage of both the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) in 2016 and the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill in March which included $4.7 billion to fight the opioid crisis ($1 billion in grants to states). Last week, President Trump signed into law the Fiscal Year 2019 Labor/ Health and Human Services Appropriations bill, which included $3.8 billion in funding for opioid-related programs. The Department of Health and Human Services recently announced that Alaska will receive $10.4 million in opioid grant funding. This includes $4 million in state opioid response grant funding, in addition to the $6.4 million in grants 24 health centers in Alaska received earlier this year. State opioid grants provide flexible funding to states to implement opioid use disorder interventions in the best way that fits their needs. In addition, in June 2018 the U.S. Department of Labor awarded the State of Alaska a $1.3 million grant to provide career, training, and supportive services for individuals in Alaska communities impacted by the opioid epidemic. For a list of notable provisions within the bill, click here. For information on Senator Sullivan’s work to combat the opioid crisis, click here. ###
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Sullivan Welcomes USTR Decision to Withdraw Proposed Tariffs on Alaska Caught Salmon Sullivan: “Important change for Alaska’s seafood industry and the more than 60,000 jobs it contributes to our economy” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) – the chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard – welcomed the recent decision by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to remove proposed tariffs on Alaska salmon from a list of approximately $200 billion worth of additional tariffs on Chinese imports. The change comes following months of engagement by Senator Sullivan and his staff to protect hardworking Alaskan fisherman and to educate the administration on the unintended impacts of this proposal. “I commend Ambassador Lighthizer and the Trump administration for listening to our concerns, for taking thoughtful guidance and input, and for making this important change for Alaska’s seafood industry and the more than 60,000 jobs it contributes to our economy,” said Senator Sullivan. “While I am supportive of the administration’s broader efforts to address China’s unfair and non-reciprocal trading practices, targeting an American product, harvested by Alaskan fishermen on American flagged vessels runs completely counter to the administration’s strategy regarding China. “The Alaska seafood industry is the lifeblood of our coastal communities, which is why my team and I engaged at every level to ensure these changes were made,” Sullivan said. “It’s a good first step, accounting for approximately $250 million worth of salmon imports caught primarily by Alaska fishermen. Without it, policies meant to counter China’s unfair trading practices would have actually harmed Alaskan workers and industries due to the fact that a portion of Alaskan seafood harvests go to China for limited reprocessing before being sold back to American companies and consumers, or elsewhere throughout the world.” Since before the USTR announced its list of proposed tariffs on China, Senator Sullivan has worked to ensure the Alaska seafood industry is protected. This included numerous phone calls and meetings with Ambassador Lighthizer and USTR staff, regular discussions with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and President Trump, as well as public testimony before the U.S. International Trade Commission. Senator Sullivan’s engagement on the issue continues. On September 28, 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative published a modification in the Public Register to a list of additional tariffs on goods from China announced on September 17, 2018. This modification deleted the following Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), among others: 0304.81.10 Frozen salmon fillets, skinned, in blocks weighing over 4.5 kg, to be minced, ground or cut into pieces of uniform weight 0304.81.50 Other frozen salmon fillets Senator Sullivan sharing his thoughts following his August 23, 2018 testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commission on proposed seafood tariffs (click image or here to watch). For more information on the $200 billion trade action against products of China and their impact to Alaska seafood, please see Senator Sullivan’s written testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commission offered on August 23, 2018. ###
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Sullivan Works to Pass Major FAA Reauthorization with Key Provisions Benefitting Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Aviation Operations, Safety and Security Subcommittee, today joined his colleagues in the overwhelming passage of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018. This legislation – which now heads to the President’s desk – reauthorizes the FAA through 2023, and contains several key provisions of Alaskan importance secured by Senator Sullivan. “Simply put, aviation and aviation infrastructure are a critical component of the Alaskan economy and our way of life,” said Senator Sullivan. “For 169 communities in Alaska who are reliant on aviation to travel in and out of their communities and for their goods and services — including regional centers like Bethel, Nome and Kotzebue — today's passage of the FAA reauthorization bill is critically important. From our general aviation community to the cargo industry, this long-term reauthorization will help modernize our airport infrastructure, improve service for the flying public, enhance security, while also boosting innovation. I thank my colleagues for coming together to make this five-year authorization -- the longest enacted since 1982.” “This legislation not only provides long term funding certainty, but provides a needed focus on the issues of concern to carriers in Alaska,” said Jane Dale, Executive Director of the Alaska Air Carriers Association. “Senator Sullivan’s attention to the concerns coming from Alaskans in his work on the Commerce Committee will provide regulatory relief and certainty for our air carriers, and a path towards infrastructure investment that has been lacking in Alaska.” Some of the major provisions championed by Senator Sullivan in the FAA Reauthorization include: Investment in Aviation Infrastructure: The bill supports investment and enhanced safety by authorizing five years of stable funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) at $3.35 billion for FY 2019-2023. Maintaining the Air Traffic Control System: The bill maintains the current air traffic control system and does not transfer air traffic control services to a private corporation. Essential Air Service: The bill authorizes an escalating per year amount for the Essential Air Service Program, an increase of $5 million for FY18 to $155 million, up to $172 million in FY2023. For the FY23 allocation, this will be an increase of $23 million beyond the existing appropriation amount, in order to support small community air service. Little Diomede EAS: The bill includes a provision authored by Senator Sullivan adding Little Diomede into the Essential Air Service in order to provide regular air service to the community. The Village of Little Diomede were not eligible for the first 12 years of the Essential Air Service (EAS) program due to the fact that they did not receive scheduled air service in 1978. The need to add Diomede into the EAS program was made clear when the community went without any air service and crucial supplies for more than five weeks in 2015. Transferring Automated Weather Observing Systems (AWOS) to FAA: The bill includes an amendment from Senator Sullivan to allow an airport or the state to transfer Automated Weather Observing Systems and related communications systems that are built with AIP funds to the FAA for ownership and operations and maintenance. Weather reporting and forecasts, and air-to-ground communications are needed to support the expanding aviation industry and its needs for better and safer access. Improved Safety in Rural Areas: The bill includes a provision championed by Senator Sullivan to improve the usefulness of Instrument Flight Rules approaches in some destinations in Alaska. The language permits on-demand or commuter operations (Part 135) to fly to destinations using Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) for destinations that have a published IFR approach but lack a Meteorological Aerodrome Report (METAR weather report) if a current Area Forecast, supplemented by non-certified local weather observations (such as weather cameras and human observations) is available, and an alternate airport that has a weather report is specified. Terminal Aerodrome Forecast: The bill includes language authored by Senator Sullivan to ensure that requirements for weather forecasting and weather reporting are appropriate for the unique operating environment in Alaska. The language allows carriers that provide regularly scheduled air service to continue operations as historically practiced, allowing the use of an area forecast, supplemented by other local weather data and an alternate airport filed with complete weather data. Small Airport Regulation Relief: The bill directs the FAA to apportion AIP entitlement funds to certain airports based on its 2012 enplanement numbers. This protects the Alaskan communities of Manotak, Haines, Cold Bay, Hoonah, Emmonak and Gustavus airports from cuts in AIP funding. Priority Review of Construction Projects in Cold Weather States: The bill includes a priority of Senator Sullivan’s to ensure the FAA schedules its review of construction projects so that projects in cold weather states are reviewed as early as possible in order to maximize construction time during the construction season. Remote Airport Access Roads: The bill contains a provision authored by Senator Sullivan to provide a higher degree of local use for airport access roads located off the contiguous road system in Alaska. Currently, the rigidity of Airport Improvement Program funds prohibits property owners from using airport roads to access their adjacent lands, including adjacent Alaska Native land allotments. The language provides incidental access to public or private property for airport access roads in Alaska for property that is adjacent to the road and is not otherwise connected to a public road. Noncommercial General Aviation Registration: A top priority of the general aviation community, the bill would increase the duration of registration for noncommercial general aviation aircraft to seven years from three. Lithium Batteries: The bill contains language authored by Senator Sullivan to ensure rural residents are able to access replacement batteries for medical devices via safe transport by aircraft. Infrastructure Regulatory Reform: The bill includes an amendment, championed by Senator Sullivan, limiting the regulation of non-federally sponsored property. Airport owners are currently required to receive FAA approval to make any improvements or changes to any airport facilities, including those that are not related to airfield or aeronautical areas. This amendment limits the FAA’s role to establishing standards, such as height limits or shielding radio signals, ensuring aircraft operations or avionics are not interfered with. As long as the airport owner or operator meets those standards, they could develop non-airfield parcels as they see fit. The amendment was supported by the Airports Council International – North America. Aircraft Certification Reform: The bill streamlines FAA’s burdensome and slow certification processes by establishing an Advisory Committee to put forth improvements to ensure uniformity and reliability of the process. More importantly, it requires the FAA to better use its existing delegation authorities, and includes certain deadlines to meet milestones. Federal Contract Tower Program: The bill contains language supporting and protecting the Federal Contract Tower Program, such as the towers located in Bethel, King Salmon, and Kodiak. Contract Weather Observer Program: The bill contains language directing the FAA not to discontinue the Contract Weather Observer program at any airport. In communities that experience severe weather, having a dedicated on-site meteorological professional to record and interpret weather data is valuable to pilots and air carriers. FAA Drone Testing: The bill will authorize the FAA’s drone test ranges through fiscal 2023, which includes the University of Alaska, Fairbanks (UAF). The bill will also codify a drone integration pilot program recently established by the DOT. This past May, DOT named the UAF as one of 10 sites nationwide selected for the highly competitive FAA Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration Pilot Program. The newly created program serves an opportunity for state, local, and tribal governments to partner with private sector entities to accelerate the safe UAS integration in American airspace. ADS-B Evaluation: The bill contains language secured by Senator Sullivan to require the FAA to evaluate providing additional ADS-B Ground Based Transmitters to provide a minimum operational network in Alaska along major flight routes. Ground Based ADS-B Transmitters providing surveillance, weather, and traffic information are critical to the NextGen infrastructure and bringing safety and efficiency benefits in rural areas of Alaska that are heavily trafficked by low-altitude general and commercial aviation. ###
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Senate ENR Committee Approves Bill to Restore Equity for Alaska Native Vietnam Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee yesterday advanced S. 785, the Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act, out of committee by voice vote. The bill, sponsored by Sens. Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski, both R-Alaska, would allow approximately 2,800 Alaska Natives who served during the Vietnam-era to apply for their Congressionally-promised Native allotment, after they missed their initial opportunity to do so because of their service. “This is an important step in a process that has gone on for far too long. Our bill is needed to ensure that Alaska Native men and women who left home to serve our nation during the Vietnam War are finally able to receive their land allotments,” Murkowski said. “I appreciate my colleagues’ support in committee, and will work closely with Sen. Sullivan to move this bill through the Senate as soon as possible.” “Yesterday was a good day and we are one step closer to curing a longstanding injustice. Over the years, I have said that Alaska Natives possess a special kind of patriotism, serving at higher rates than any other ethnic group and stepping up during controversial times, such as the Vietnam era; and I am proud to say that yesterday, the Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act passed out of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee,” Sullivan said. “This legislation would allow Alaska Native Vietnam Veterans the opportunity to apply for the native allotment they were denied because of their service to their country. As this legislation moves forward, I would like to personally thank the Alaska Native veterans for their service, Interior Secretary Zinke for pledging his support last year after personally meeting with a number of Alaska Native Veterans, and Chairwoman Murkowski for guiding this bill through her committee.” S. 785, as amended and reported by the committee, resolves a number of issues that impaired the success of the Alaska Native Veterans Act of 1998. Importantly, it establishes a separate program to allow Alaska Native veterans who served during the Vietnam War to apply for and receive an allotment of land in Alaska. The bill also provides a mechanism to identify lands that are available for selection and ensures that individuals will be able to use the land, including for subsistence. These changes will remedy inequities that Alaska Native Vietnam veterans have faced as a result of their service and unworkable federal laws that Congress previously passed to facilitate the allotments. ###
10.02.2018	10.02.18 Congress Sends Sullivan’s Save Our Seas Act to President’s Desk Sullivan on Efforts to Combat Marine Debris: “For the media covering this issue - hold your breath - this is a fiercely bipartisan issue.” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) applauded the recent passage of the Save Our Seas Act, legislation he introduced along with Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) to address the global marine debris crisis. The bill, which moves to the President’s desk following last Thursday’s passage in the U.S. House of Representatives, will boost the federal government’s domestic and international response to ocean waste, and allow the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize additional funds to states, like Alaska, for cleanup and response efforts. “This bipartisan legislation is important for the country, for the world, and certainly for Alaska, which has more coastline than the rest of the Lower 48 combined,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “The prevalence of marine debris on our shores is a chronic issue. This bill will serve to strengthen the federal response capabilities to marine debris disasters, combat land based marine debris resources, and encourage interagency coordination in stemming the tide of ocean trash and importantly encourage the Trump administration to pursue international agreements with regard to this challenge.” “Everyone from scientists, to journalists, to fishermen, to coastal industries and international corporations are sounding the alarm about plastic trash and other marine debris polluting our oceans,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse. “It’s time to protect our precious marine ecosystems and coastal economies from this threat,” said Senator Whitehouse, co-founder and co-chair of the Senate Oceans Caucus. “This bipartisan bill represents an important step forward in addressing the marine debris crisis. Senators Sullivan, Booker, and I were proud to pass it in the Senate, and I’m thrilled to see it head to the White House today.” Last week, Senator Sullivan spoke at length on the overwhelmingly bipartisan effort to address the growing threat to ocean vitality and coastal ecosystems in a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing entitled Cleaning Up the Oceans: How to Reduce the Impact of Man-Made Trash on the Environment, Wildlife, and Human Health? Senator Sullivan speaking before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee on the Save Our Seas Act (click image or here to watch). “I want to emphasize what’s already been stated. But for the media covering this issue – hold your breath – this is a fiercely bipartisan issue. It does happen here. As a matter of fact, it happens quite a lot,” said Senator Sullivan. “This past year, Senator Whitehouse and I have engaged early and often with the EPA, the Department of Commerce, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office, the State Department, and the American delegation to the G7 summit, other countries in the G7. What resulted in that – with countries in the G20 – is a growing, strong commitment to pursue marine debris prevention goals through future international trade agreements and development aid agreements. This is an important step toward, an actionable step, to curbing this man-made plight on our oceans that we all agree is a big problem.” Sullivan, a long time champion of combatting the global marine debris crisis, introduced the Save our Seas (SOS) Act on March 29, 2017. The legislation passed the Senate with unanimous support on August 3, 2017 and was sent to the U.S. House of Representatives, where it was amended to include additional provisions relating to maritime safety. The bill was passed by unanimous consent in the U.S. Senate on September 26, 2018 with additional maritime safety measures, before unanimously passing the U.S. House of Representatives on September 27, 2018.The bills boasts broad bipartisan support from both Republicans and Democrats, as well as numerous industry groups. The Save our Seas (SOS) Act will help confront the marine debris crisis by: Allowing the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize funds to assist with cleanup and response. The Governor of the affected state may request the NOAA Administrator make this declaration. Reauthorizing NOAA’s Marine Debris Program through FY2022. Its mission is to conduct research on the source of marine debris and take action to prevent and clean up marine debris. Encouraging the Executive Branch – led by the U.S. State Department – to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, support research into ocean biodegradable plastics, examine the causes of ocean debris, develop effective prevention and mitigation strategies, and quantify the economic benefits for treaty nations in addressing the crisis. The Save Our Seas (SOS) Act also includes maritime safety provisions from separate pieces of legislation, including: H.R.6175 - Maritime Safety Act of 2018 H.R. 6206, Coast Guard Blue Technology Center of Expertise Act ###
10.01.2018	10.01.18 Sullivan Statement on New U.S. – Mexico – Canada Agreement WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after the United States, Mexico, and Canada announced that an agreement has been reached on the new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA): “While I’m still reviewing the final text released late last night, I’m glad to see the Trump administration finalize this important trilateral agreement with our closest neighbors and two of our largest trading partners,” said Senator Sullivan. “In my frequent discussions with the President and his team on trade issues, I have reminded them of the need for reciprocity in our trading relationships, but most importantly, I have repeatedly emphasized to the Administration the importance of engaging with our allies in North America, Europe and Asia to work together to address the very significant challenges that China’s unfair and non-reciprocal trading practices pose for American workers, businesses and families. With a revised NAFTA now one step closer to completion, the opportunities for a more coordinated global trading approach with our allies has been enhanced. “In addition to the modernization of some the larger aspects of NAFTA, I was pleased to see the inclusion of language in the USMCA that addresses the need to take action to prevent and reduce marine debris, as well as the prioritization of fisheries management – made possible by new principal negotiating objectives for the Administration under Trade Promotion Authority, a provision I included in 2016’s H.R. 644, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act.” ###
09.25.2018	09.25.18 Senator Sullivan Sets Record Straight on Kavanaugh Protesters WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on protests today in opposition to Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court: “There has been a number of questions raised today regarding a protest in and directly outside of my Washington, D.C. office in opposition to Judge Brett Kavanaugh. Given the attention this has received, I believe it warrants a response. “First, I try to meet with each and every Alaskan visiting Washington, D.C. In recent weeks I’ve met with numerous individuals, groups and organizations expressing their support for and opposition against the Kavanaugh nomination, including many from our Alaska Native community – a group I deeply respect. This group was no different. They had requested a meeting with me earlier in the week and we offered them a 3pm meeting today. They declined to participate. Today, during their protest, they demanded to meet with me immediately. Unfortunately I was participating in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing at the time. “Second, these protesters were not turned away from my office. It is my personal policy, and that of my staff, to show respect for all my Alaskan constituents, whether in my office, town halls, or meetings throughout the state. This particular group stayed in my office for approximately 15 minutes, where they were listened to in a respectful manner, and left on their own accord. Due to requirements of the Architect of the Capitol, which restricts the number of people allowed in my front office, the group was only asked to limit the number of individuals inside my office to 11 people while others waited outside. “Third, my office did not notify the U.S. Capitol Police. No protesters were arrested inside my Senate office, nor were any protesters arrested at the request of myself or any member of my staff. Any arrests made today, including those made in the hallways or public passageways of the Senate Hart Office Buildings, were at the discretion of the U.S. Capitol Police – charged with protecting the U.S. Congress; its legislative processes, employees, visitors, and facilities from crime and disruption. It is our understanding that these individuals were offered multiple opportunities by the U.S. Capitol Police to cease what has been described as "unlawful demonstration activities,” including obstructing public passageways and business activities. Some chose to do so, while others chose to be arrested. “I believe all Alaskans deserve to be heard in a respectful manner. Since the nomination of Judge Kavanaugh, I’ve regularly met with Alaskans on these important issues, including a number of groups and individuals from our Alaska Native community. As I stated before, if I believed or saw evidence that Judge Kavanaugh’s views were somehow opposed or hostile to Alaska Natives — a very important population of our state that includes my wife, daughters, and mother-in-law — I would not support his confirmation. “Lastly, on recent claims made against Judge Kavanaugh. I would like to reiterate that allegations of sexual assault should be taken seriously. Both Professor Ford and Judge Kavanaugh deserve the right to be heard on this matter. I commend Chairman Grassley on committing to as much and will be following Thursday’s Committee hearing closely.” ###
09.18.2018	09.18.18 Senate Passes Sweeping Legislation to Combat Opioid Crisis WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly passed legislation known as the Opioid Crisis Response Act of 2018 to further address the enduring epidemic affecting every state and nearly every community across the nation. U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a longtime champion for combatting the opioid addiction crisis, applauded the efforts to produce the bipartisan package – which included provisions from more than 70 U.S. Senators across five separate committees. “Yesterday, the Senate overwhelmingly passed milestone legislation to further combat the opioid crisis and help some of the most vulnerable in our communities,” said Senator Sullivan. “Last year, more than 72,000 Americans died from drug overdoses -- the highest rate ever. Addressing this crisis – one of the greatest public health risks we’ve seen in a generation – continues to be a top priority of mine and so many others. As we all know, addiction does not discriminate. It affects everyone, and it’s essential that we get Alaskans the help that they need. It’s imperative that the federal government addresses this crisis with the sense of urgency it requires, which includes both funding for states like Alaska that have been hit hardest by this drug crisis and associated crime wave but also the necessary policy changes to support prevention, treatment and recovery. This legislation – which has an important focus on rural and remote communities – represents significant progress towards supporting those on the front lines and helping combat the scourge of drug abuse, addiction and crime.” The Opioid Crisis Response Act of 2018 takes important steps to reduce illegal drug use and its supply chain – including legislation known as the STOP Act to help stop synthetic drugs from entering the country through the U.S. Postal Service and the reauthorization of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program. The bill also assists states in addressing substance use disorders, supports in-school and early childhood education programs, and works to improve access to treatment, health professionals, long-distance care, and recovery housing, among other things. The legislation builds off previous efforts to assist in battling the opioid epidemic, including the passage of both the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) in 2016 and the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill in March which included $4.7 billion to fight the opioid crisis ($1 billion in grants to states). Ongoing efforts include the Senate passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 Health and Human Services Appropriations bill, which contains $3.8 billion to help combat the opioid crisis. Provisions in the Opioid Crisis Response Act of 2018 championed by Senator Sullivan: 21st Century Cures Act Funding Extension – Reauthorizes and improves the state targeted response grants from the 21st Century Cures Act to provide funding to Tribes and to improve flexibility for states in using the grants. Includes language championed by Senator Sullivan for a 5% set aside for funding made available through the Act to tribe and tribal organizations. Also provides resources for tribes, including outreach and technical assistances, to encourage grant application participation. Opioid Addiction Recovery Fraud Prevention Act – Includes legislation cosponsored by Senator Sullivan aimed at protecting individuals with opioid use disorder and their families from harmful and misleading addiction treatment programs or products. The provision will hold fraudulent substance abuse treatment programs and recovery centers accountable by empowering the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and state attorneys general to bring enforcement actions to combat such scams. For more information, click here. Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act – Includes legislation cosponsored by Senator Sullivan to help stop dangerous drugs like fentanyl and carfentanil – primarily from China – from being shipped through the postal system drug by traffickers here in the United States, particularly important to addressing the major influx of drugs entering remote Alaskan communities. A section by section of The Opioid Crisis Response Act of 2018 can be found here. Background on Senator Sullivan’s Work to Combat the Opioid Epidemic: October of 2015 – Eight Alaska women who struggle with addiction visit Senator Sullivan in his Washington, DC office and serve as the inspiration for the 2016 Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis. July 13, 2016 – Sullivan helps champion passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), legislation to combat the opioid epidemic across the nation, including Alaska. August 4, 2016 – Sullivan convenes the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis, dedicated to conquering the opioid and heroin epidemic scourging our nation and great state of Alaska. Speakers included: U.S. Health and Human Services Deputy Secretary Mary Wakefield, Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, top-level U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs officials, and esteemed Alaskans will be participating and speaking. December 7, 2016 – Sullivan supports critical passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, which included $1 billion over two years for states to combat the opioid crisis, along with other priorities. April 25, 2017 – Sullivan invited to attend small, bipartisan group leaders at the White House for a meeting with the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, chaired by Governor Chris Christie (R-NJ). October 26, 2017 – Sullivan attends White House for President Trump’s announcement declaring the opioid crisis a public health emergency. February 27, 2018 – Senator Sullivan joins seven of his Senate colleagues in authoring and introducing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) 2.0 Act, bipartisan legislation to increase the funding authorization levels for the CARA programs enacted in 2016 and put in place additional policy reforms to help combat the opioid epidemic. Many provisions included in this legislation were adopted in the Opioid Crisis Response Act of 2018. May 5, 2018 – Alaska Congressional Delegation welcomes a critical announcement by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) designating areas surrounding Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Juneau as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). Declaration represents the first new regional HIDTA program since 2001 and made Alaska the 50th state to be eligible for the federal grant program. August 17, 2018 – Senator Sullivan convenes the Alaska Wellness Summit 2.0 – Confronting Alaska’s Crime Wave, a gathering of federal, state and local community leaders dedicated to tackling the many challenges associated with the growing opioid and heroin epidemic. The summit was attended by top state and federal officials, including the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Jim Carroll. ###
09.12.2018	09.12.18 Sullivan Applauds Subsistence Whaling Quota Renewal at IWC Meeting in Brazil WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today applauded the hard work of the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission (AEWC) and the entire U.S. delegation for their efforts at the 67th International Whaling Commission (IWC) meeting in Florianopolis, Brazil to renew subsistence whaling quota for seven more years and to secure for the first time the automatic renewal of its whaling quota as long as harvests remain sustainable. The measure passed earlier today by a vote of 58 to 7. “This is a momentous day for all those who reside on the North Slope and Bering Strait regions and I share in the joy that is undoubtedly felt today in villages from Kaktovik to Little Diomede,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today’s decision means that the Alaska Native hunters will be able to continue their traditional cultural practice and provide food security for generations to come. “Importantly, the IWC has adopted an automatic renewal clause which will reauthorize current quotas – established in 1997 and endorsed by the scientific community on an annual basis – so long as the science says harvests remain sustainable,” Sullivan said. “This a huge victory for the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission, who for years has had to fight every six years to maintain their right to subsistence whale harvest.” “I congratulate the AEWC, which, for decades, has demonstrated a commitment to science and sustainability. And I congratulate the brave Alaska delegation who so aptly represented our state’s whalers — led by North Slope Borough Mayor Harry Brower, and AEWC Vice-chair Crawford Patkotak— at the 67th International Whaling Commission meeting in Brazil,” said Sullivan. “Finally, I want to thank the members of U.S. Delegation to the IWC, ably led by U.S. Commissioner Ryan Wulff, NOAA Assistant Administrator for Fisheries Chris Oliver, and their colleagues with NOAA and the State Department, for their dedication, expertise, and countless hours of work that went into making today’s result possible.” BACKGROUND: As the Chairman of the Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee – who has jurisdiction over our nations oceans, fisheries, and marine mammals, including whales –Senator Sullivan has relentlessly championed the efforts of Alaska Native whalers to subsistence harvest whales. In the lead up to the IWC meeting in Brazil, Senator Sullivan kept in close communication with senior leadership at the U.S. State Department and NOAA, and sent his Legislative Director to the IWC meetings in Brazil to serve on the U.S. delegation. In August, the Alaska delegation sent a letter to embassies of IWC member countries, reiterating our commitment to subsistence whaling. In July, Senator Sullivan convened a strategy meeting in the U.S. Capitol with AEWC, the State Department, and NOAA to ensure continued coordination and foster direct high level engagement. Afterwards, Senator Sullivan led a reception, hosted by the Alaska Congressional Delegation, for Ambassadors and diplomatic officials of IWC member embassies. In April 2018, Senator Sullivan alongside Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young introduced and passed out of the Senate Commerce Committee the Whaling Convention Amendments Act of 2018 – which would authorize the Secretary of Commerce to preserve the bowhead whale subsistence harvest and Alaska Native food security under U.S. law if the International Whaling Commission had failed to act on bowhead whale quota during their meetings in Brazil this week. Click here for a letter of support from the AWEC. During now Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s confirmation process, Senator Sullivan raised the renewal of the subsistence whaling quota as a key priority for Alaska and secured his commitment to assist in our efforts to secure quota renewal. In October 2017, Senator Sullivan chaired an Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee hearing entitled “Exploring Native American Subsistence Rights and International Treaties,” which focused on the importance and sustainability of subsistence whaling in Alaska, and included testimony from North Slope Borough Mayor Harry Brower, Mr. John Hopson, Jr., Chairman, Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission; and Dr. Robert Suydam, Senior Wildlife Biologist, North Slope Borough. In June 2016, Senator Sullivan gave a speech on the Senate floor about Alaska’s unique whaling culture. Click here to watch. SUBSISTENCE WHALING BACKGROUND: Worldwide whale stocks are managed through the International Whaling Commission, a group of 89 countries that have ratified the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The Whaling Convention Act of 1949 is the relevant U.S. implementing legislation. The Convention allows for the harvest of certain whale species for nations that certify either a cultural or subsistence need for their aboriginal population. Russia, Denmark (for Greenland), the United States, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines are those nations who currently practice Aboriginal Subsistence Whaling (ASW). From time-to-time, the Commission renews ASW quota. However, due to increased polarization at the IWC due to unrelated disputes regarding commercial and scientific whaling, in recent years, ASW communities have seen their quota used as a bargaining chip or outright rejected—all despite no objection by the IWC’s Scientific Committee. The aboriginal subsistence harvest in Alaska is sustainable, and non-commercial. The number of bowheads is consistently increasing and may now be at levels not seen since the dawn of the 20th Century. The International Whaling Commission has consistently certified that the biological status of our bowheads is sustainable. ###
09.10.2018	09.10.18 Sullivan Appointed to Serve as Chairman of Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) has been named the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, a role recently vacated by newly appointed chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) U.S. Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK). The vacancies come after the passing of the late Senator John McCain, who had chaired the full Senate Armed Services Committee since 2015. “The passing of Senator John McCain leaves extremely large shoes to fill, not only in the United States Senate but when it comes to the broader issues of national security, foreign policy, international diplomacy and freedom,” said Senator Sullivan. “While John’s leadership can’t be replaced, I’m honored to do my part on the Senate Armed Services Committee to continue his legacy of service on behalf of our nation’s men and women in uniform.” In his capacity as Chairman of the SASC Subcommittee on Readiness, Sullivan will oversee military readiness across each branch within the Department of Defense, including training, logistics and maintenance issues and programs, military construction, installations and family housing issues, and defense energy and environmental programs. “As Alaskans know, our state is at the forefront of military readiness and training – home to expansive training ranges, large-scale exercises like REDFLAG-Alaska and Northern Edge, and the best trained soldiers and airmen in the world,” said Senator Sullivan. “I recently highlighted these areas with Secretary Mattis and our Service Secretaries so they could better understand the value of our geostrategic location and the vital role Alaska serves in the Indo-Pacific. As the chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, I will continue to press these issues and others to take appropriate steps to ensure our troops have the resources, equipment, and training they need to protect our nation against an increasingly complex and diverse array of threats. I thank Chairman Inhofe for entrusting me in this role, particularly as the DOD rebalances to the Indo-Pacific, and am committed to supporting our military men and women and the vital missions they serve.” ###
09.04.2018	09.04.18 Senator Sullivan’s POWER Act Signed Into Law WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement after President Trump signed S. 717, the Pro Bono Work to Empower and Represent (POWER) Act into law. To help combat domestic abuse and sexual violence, Senator Sullivan first introduced the POWER Act in 2015. The POWER Act mandates that each year for four years, the Chief Judge of each Judicial District across the country hold at least one event promoting pro bono legal services as a critical way to empower survivors of domestic violence, stalking, and sexual assault, engage citizens, and help lift victims out of the cycle of violence. The bill also requires that every two years for four years, an event be held in areas with high numbers of Native Americans and Alaska Natives, with a focus on addressing these issues among Native populations. “We must get serious about reducing the rates of sexual assault and domestic violence in Alaska and across the country,” Senator Sullivan said. “The statistics are horrific. Roughly 25 percent of American women will be victims of domestic assault in their lifetime. On average, every day in our country, three women are killed by a current or former partner. Research has shown that when abused victims are represented by an attorney, their ability to break out of the cycle of violence increases dramatically. Our hope is that the POWER Act will help create an army of lawyers to defend victims and survivors of abuse. I’m thankful to my colleagues in both chambers on both sides of the aisle for working with me to get this bill passed and I’m grateful to the president for signing it into law.” Background on S.717, the POWER Act: The National Network to End Domestic Violence estimated that over the course of one day in September 2014, up to 10,000 requests for services by abused women, including legal representation, weren’t met because of lack of resources. Research has shown that when abuse victims are represented by an attorney, their ability to break out of the cycle of violence increases dramatically. For example, one study found that 83 percent of victims represented by an attorney were able to obtain a protective order compared to just 32 percent of victims without an attorney. The POWER Act is modeled after the pro bono summits Senator Sullivan organized throughout the state while he was Attorney General of Alaska working on the Choose Respect campaign. U.S. Senators Heitkamp (D-ND), Shaheen (D-NH), Murkowski (R-AK), Capito (R-WV), Cornyn (R-TX), and Daines (R-MT) were original co-sponsors of the bill in the Senate. Representatives Kennedy (D-MA), Young (R-AK), Gabbard (D-HI), Brooks (R-IN), and McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced companion legislation in the House in March 2017. ###
08.31.2018	08.31.18 Klobuchar, Sullivan Push Department of Homeland Security and Federal Bureau of Investigation to Prevent Election Interference on Online Platforms Senators: The threats we face require open lines of communication between digital platforms and federal agencies in order to combat attacks against our political system WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today pushed the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to work with social media and online platforms to identify and prevent election interference. More than 3,000 Russian-linked ads from Facebook were disclosed after the 2016 election that targeted American voters with false information. “The ongoing nature of the threat we face requires consistent information sharing that should be established through a framework that helps to strengthen election cybersecurity by improving coordination across all levels of government and the private sector,” the senators wrote. “Intelligence officials have made it clear that social media platforms will continue to be targets used to spread misinformation and sow discord. Accordingly, we believe these threats require DHS and the FBI to work to ensure that there are open lines of communication between digital platforms and federal agencies in order to combat attacks against our political system. Given the widespread use of social media among American voters, providing these companies with relevant information will assist in preventing the spread of disinformation. “In the 21st century, our adversaries will continue to use cyberwarfare against both private and public networks and we need to be prepared to defend against this growing threat to our democracy. Establishing a framework for information sharing between digital platforms and the government that protects Americans’ privacy and helps us to identify threats will help to protect the free flow of information and civil discourse that make our country exceptional.” Full text of the letter found below (and attached). Dear Secretary Nielsen and Director Wray: We write requesting more information on efforts by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to work with social media and online platforms to identify and prevent election interference. The joint briefing you held last week with Facebook, Microsoft, and election officials is a positive step. However, the ongoing nature of the threat we face requires consistent information sharing that should be established through a framework that helps to strengthen election cybersecurity by improving coordination across all levels of government and the private sector. More than 3,000 Russian-linked ads from Facebook were disclosed after the 2016 election that targeted American voters with false information. As we approach the 2018 election, intelligence officials warn that Russia, Iran, and other foreign actors are currently working to disrupt our midterm elections. Recently, Facebook announced that it identified and removed 652 pages involved in a coordinated disinformation campaign similar to activity we saw in the 2016 election. Now, copycat actors like Iran are following Russia’s playbook to spread misinformation and discord.[1] Last week, Facebook announced that they took down fake accounts spreading disinformation that were linked to Iran and had amassed more than 1 million followers.[2] These accounts expressed anti-Israeli themes, engaged in cyber hacking, and spent thousands of dollars on paid advertising. Twitter also recently removed 284 accounts, many of which were linked to Iran as a part of a campaign to engage in “coordinated manipulation.”[3] Intelligence officials have made it clear that social media platforms will continue to be targets used to spread misinformation and sow discord. Accordingly, we believe these threats require DHS and the FBI to work to ensure that there are open lines of communication between digital platforms and federal agencies in order to combat attacks against our political system. Given the widespread use of social media among American voters, providing these companies with relevant information will assist in preventing the spread of disinformation. Likewise, receiving information from the platforms regarding suspicious activity will allow law enforcement officials to better identity and address threats. It is imperative that this information sharing protect the privacy of Americans. We strongly urge you to implement some of the same emergency preparedness and response strategies that are already in use for other private industries. For example, the process established by the Office of Private Sector (OPS) and the FBI represents an effective model for information sharing between the private industry and the federal government. In the 21st century, our adversaries will continue to use cyberwarfare against both private and public networks and we need to be prepared to defend against this growing threat to our democracy. Establishing a framework for information sharing between digital platforms and the government that protects Americans’ privacy and helps us to identify threats will help to protect the free flow of information and civil discourse that make our country exceptional. Sincerely, ### [1] Ingram, David. “Iran’s Facebook Strategy had echoes of Russian playbook” NBC News 23 Aug. 2018 https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/iran-s-facebook-strategy-had-echoes-russian-playbook-n903091 [2] Facebook Newsroom “Taking Down More Coordinated Inauthentic Behavior” Newsroom.fb.com 21 Aug. 2018 https://newsroom.fb.com/news/2018/08/more-coordinated-inauthentic-behavior/ [3] Twitter Safety (@twittersafety). “Working with our industry peers today, we have suspended 284 accounts from Twitter for engaging in coordinated manipulation. Based on our existing analysis, it appears many of these accounts originated from Iran.” 21 Aug 2018, 7:01 pm, Tweet. https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety/status/1032055161978585088
08.31.2018	08.31.18 Sullivan, Tester, Roe & Walz Push VA to Study Medical Cannabis as Alternative Therapy for Veterans with PTSD or Chronic Pain Members: Veterans Counting on VA to Ensure Safe, Effective Treatment WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Jon Tester (D-Montana) and Representatives Phil Roe (TN-01) and Tim Walz (MN-01) are urging the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to begin clinical trials to better understand the potential benefits or dangers of medical cannabis use. In a letter to VA Secretary Robert Wilkie, the members ask him to begin a large-scale study as soon as possible, so veterans using medical cannabis to treat post-traumatic stress disorder and chronic pain can better understand its effects and VA doctors can provide better guidance to their patients. “The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is already conducting multiple small-scale studies into the potential health benefits of medicinal cannabis, and we believe VA has the authority, ability and capacity to carry out such a study,” they wrote. “Many of our nation’s veterans already use medicinal cannabis, and they deserve to have full knowledge of the potential benefits and side effects of this alternative therapy.” The Congressmen noted that in the midst of the opioid crisis, many veterans are already using medical cannabis to treat pain and PTSD, and have found it an effective alternative to traditional painkillers. One recent study found patients using cannabis experienced a 75 percent reduction in PTSD symptoms. But without concrete data, VA doctors can’t provide full, fact-based guidance to their patients. “We strongly encourage VA to take its cues from veterans, who, according to The American Legion’s survey of its membership, overwhelmingly support research into medicinal cannabis,” the members added. “We, and all of our nation’s veterans, look forward to your prompt response.” You can read the full letter to Secretary Wilkie HERE. ### Press Contact
08.29.2018	08.29.18 Sullivan Pays Tribute to Senator John McCain in Speech on Senate Floor “When he took a stand, he could be unwavering, but he was always willing to listen to reason and to compromise when the reasoning was convincing and the principle sound…” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) yesterday spoke on the Senate floor to honor and pay tribute to his colleague and friend the late Senator John McCain. Senator Sullivan speaking on the Senate floor in honor of Senator John McCain (click image or here to watch). REMEMBERING JOHN McCAIN -- (Senate - August 28, 2018) Mr. President, I am standing at a different desk this evening to give my remarks because I want to be actually behind this desk in front of me, which is Senator McCain's desk draped in black, with beautiful flowers, signifying the loss that we are all feeling here in the U.S. Senate. As we have heard from so many in this Chamber all week--this evening in particular--Senator John McCain's passing represents an incalculable loss not only to his family, his dear wife Cindy, his friends, and a legion of admirers across the world, but also to his colleagues here in the U.S. Senate--Democrats and Republicans--and to the institution of the Senate itself, where he served as a model of honor and integrity and character for 31 years. There are so many people who served with him much longer and knew him much better than I did. I have been watching the speeches, the wonderful, passionate, and emotional words from my colleagues like Senator Graham--Lindsey Graham--his best friend here in the Senate this afternoon; Senator Whitehouse, a good friend of Senator McCain's, a good friend of mine whom I met through many trips with Senator McCain; Leader McConnell; Senator Sasse--so many have been coming to the floor. The tributes on the Senate floor and in the newspapers across the country have been inspiring, and they have been true, talking about a man of courage, a steadfast patriot, an American hero, a warrior of indomitable spirit, who not only believed in American exceptionalism but inspired millions of Americans and millions of people across the globe to believe in it as well. As I have watched and listened, sometimes I have started to wonder what more there is to add--there has been a lot said--especially from a freshman Senator who hadn't served with John nearly as long as most in this august Chamber. But if Senator John McCain taught us anything, it was to speak when you feel compelled to speak, and when it comes to him, I certainly feel compelled to speak, particularly as a newer Member of this body who thought the world of this man and learned so much from him. John McCain was a leader. There is no arguing about that. One of the qualities of leadership that is so important and sometimes gets overlooked and that was a huge quality of this great Senator was his ability to focus on and give his time and willingness to mentor newer Members of the Senate. If you look at the arc of his three decades of service in the U.S. Senate, one thing he always took the time to do was to take newer Members under his wing, show them the ropes, travel with them, teach them, coach them. Of course, this takes time, effort, energy, and initiative. We are all busy here in the U.S. Senate, but this was and is a truly important hallmark of the McCain legacy--critical--and it is a bipartisan legacy. Just look at the Senators who have come to the floor to speak about Senator McCain. Look at some of the newer Senators who have come to the floor: Senators WHITEHOUSE, KLOBUCHAR, ERNST, SASSE, and GRAHAM, of course--so many who had that privilege, the great privilege, of having John McCain actually take an interest in them and spend his precious time and energy on their well-being and careers in the Senate. One of the true honors of my life was having John McCain as a friend and a mentor in the Senate. At the time this was happening, I didn't always think about it too much, but now, as we look at his desk, I am so grateful that I had these experiences. Like most things with John McCain, it wasn't a subtle experience. In fact, a lot of the time I didn't feel I had a choice in the matter. My first month in the Senate, in January 2015, like a lot of the new Senators, I was pretty clueless here, quite clueless--rules, faces, names, votes. This lion of the Senate, John McCain, pulled me aside on the floor of the Senate on two different times in the first month I was a Senator. On one occasion, he was talking about an institution that really mattered to him--the U.S. Naval Academy. He said to me: Dan, do you know what? Under Federal law, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee--which he was--sits on the boards of all the service academies, or his designee. He asked me if I was interested in sitting on the Board of Visitors for the Naval Academy. This was from John McCain, who went to the Naval Academy. His dad went to the Naval Academy, and his grandfather went to the Naval Academy. The name McCain and the Naval Academy are almost synonymous. He is going to be buried there, in fact. I looked at the Senator, and I said ``Yes, sir.'' Another time, in the Armed Services Committee, he mentioned to me that he had always taken a very strong interest in the Asia-Pacific and our force posture out there, what was happening in places like Okinawa, and he wanted the newer Members of the Senate to be part of it. Reaching out to new Senators--I want you to do this. I am going to travel the region, and I want you to come with me. I mean, it was unbelievable. And I said ``Yes, sir'' to that. Like so many here who have talked about it, we went to these places. Just a couple of months later, I had the incredible honor of traveling to Vietnam with Senator McCain, with Senator Reed from Rhode Island, Senator Ernst from Iowa, and that is a trip I will never forget. We actually went to the Hanoi Hilton, which has been talked about a lot this past week, where John McCain suffered and was tortured. There is a tribute in that place of torture. It is not really a tribute, but it has pictures of him. We walked in, and we looked at this, and there were a couple of Americans in front, reading about this. They turned around, and they saw John McCain, and two of them just started crying. By the way, when you were in Vietnam with John McCain, he was treated like a hero--the hero that he was--by the Vietnamese people, which was amazing. These co-dels--and Senator McCain has led them all over the world with Senators--have gotten a lot of attention. Of course, they are very important. Senator Graham was talking about them recently in the Senate. We focus a lot on foreign policy and national security. You can't learn that from watching cable TV, but you can learn when you go out into the world and travel and meet with leaders and meet with people and see the suffering, see the opportunities, and see the challenges. John McCain took so many of us, through his leadership and mentorship, on these congressional delegations all over the world. There has been some joking now about how, with his energy and his focus, some Members called these forced marches. By the way, nobody could keep up with him--even the newer Members. They certainly were tense. Back to the idea of mentorship, on a co-del with John McCain, he once again showed that leadership. He would be leading it. He would be in a room with a world leader, and then he would take the time to name and introduce every Member of the Senate on the co-del and have them ask questions, have them engage. He could have dominated every one of these conversations. He never did. He was always asking the Members: What do you think? Do you have a question? These co-dels were also a great opportunity to bring Senators together--Democrats and Republicans. When you are traveling overseas, partisan differences fade if you are in a war zone or in a poverty-stricken country or dictatorship. You see that what unites us is a lot more important than what divides us. The bottom line is that he clearly saw that part of his mission was to work with and mentor the next generation of Senators on responsibilities that he clearly cared so much about, particularly on foreign policy and national security. I would like to talk a little bit about my class, the class that was elected in 2014. We had 13 new Senators in that class. The Presiding Officer is a Member of that class. It is a great class. There is a lot of energy and a lot of youth. Of the 13 Members of the class of 2014 who joined the Armed Services Committee, if you look at it right now, there are 8 who are on it. That is John McCain in action as the former chairman of that committee, taking newer Senators and getting them on that committee to focus and learn about the world. There have been numerous articles and commentary--particularly in the realm of foreign policy and national security--saying that the passing of this great Senator has left a huge void in the Senate, and I couldn't agree more. The combination of service, sacrifice, moral authority, military and combat experience, and a deep, abiding conviction about America's role in the world makes him a unique Senator, unmatched by anyone in this body. One of the things I believe Senator McCain knew about leadership and one of the reasons he focused so much on the issue of mentoring other Senators over the years was to prepare this body and the next generation of Senators, whether on the Armed Services Committee or as part of another institution he led for many years, the International Republican Institute--making sure and being ready so that when this day happened, other Senators who were taught and mentored and encouraged by John McCain would be focused on issues that he cared so much about, like the indispensable role of America and the Senate in making the world a better place. A mentor is, almost by definition, a teacher. Many of us have learned so much from him. Much has been said about this, and I am sure that over the years, we will learn more about what Senator McCain taught us. I would like to highlight two areas where I personally learned so much from John McCain. The first was how to fight for what you believe in. When you look at the arc of John McCain's whole life, whether in the Hanoi Hilton or on the Senate floor, it was about fighting for what he believed in. Pretty much everybody in this body has had a scrap with John McCain, and when you did, you had to be ready to fight with all you had because he was so passionate and intense. On the Armed Services Committee, I had a bit of a tradition with him. Prior to the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act, I would go and have a one-on-one meeting with him on some provisions that he might not like that I was trying to get in the bill. These were mostly behind-closed-door battles, some of which got a little heated, fingers pointed, voices raised. I won a few, lost a lot more than I won, but it was never personal for John McCain. He was a warrior, and as he often said, ``A fight not joined is a fight not enjoyed.'' When he took a stand, he could be unwavering, but he was always willing to listen to reason and to compromise when the reasoning was convincing and the principle sound, regardless of who was making the case--a Democrat or a Republican. ``We are Americans first, Americans last, Americans always,'' he once said. ``Let us argue our differences. But remember we are not enemies, but comrades together in a war against a real enemy.'' He always fought with honor, and he always kept his word. In his final memoir, ``The Restless Wave''--which I recommend everybody read; it is a great book--he has a chapter called ``Fighting the Good Fight.'' It recounts a lot of his battles on the floor of this body, but when the fight was over, he emphasized the importance of keeping your word--what he called the Senate's principal virtue. He always did that, and he taught others to do that. Another thing I learned early on from Senator McCain was how to have fun and not take life too seriously here in the Senate. Senator McCain's good friend John Lehman, who was President Reagan's Secretary of the Navy, recently wrote an op-ed about Senator McCain's life entitled ``A Life of Service, Lived With Good-Natured Irreverence.'' I think for those of us who knew and loved John McCain, that was a great description of him. His wit was legendary. After a while, I learned that if you were a target of it, it was ultimately a term of endearment, although it could take some getting used to. Senator Sasse was just on the floor talking about some of the barbs, some of his first engagements with the Senator. I first met John McCain 4 years ago. I remember the meeting like it was yesterday. I was a huge fan. I had read books about him. I read books by him. I was here as a candidate for the Senate and had recently won my primary, and I was meeting Senators at one of our lunches. Senator Murkowski, my colleague from Alaska, was taking me around and introducing me to a number of Republican Senators, and she said: Dan, have you ever met John McCain? I said: No. I would be honored to meet him. I walked up to Senator McCain. Of course I was a bit nervous. My colleague from Alaska, Senator Murkowski, was introducing me and telling him about my background--that I was in the Marine Reserves commanding a battalion--and Senator McCain looked at me very seriously and said: Well, that is interesting, Dan. I almost joined the Marines. I said: Really, Senator? He said: Yeah. I almost joined the Marines, but the Marines told me I wasn't qualified. I said: Really? Why weren't you qualified? As I was asking this question of him, I noticed other Senators gathering around, all smiling. He said: Why wasn't I qualified? Because I knew who my parents were. Of course everybody laughed. Senator McCain laughed. I realized I and my beloved Marine Corps had just been assaulted by John McCain in the first of what would be many jokes. Only later did I know--and Senator Graham was talking about it--that this Marine joke was one of the many in the McCain repertoire. I have heard it many times now. It always gets a laugh. These jokes are a great part of his wonderful personality--irreverent wisecracks to keep people humble, keep them laughing even about serious topics. I remember when I was in Vietnam with Senator McCain. We were at the lake in Hanoi where he had been shot down and had parachuted into this lake. There is a statue of John McCain coming out of the lake. The language is in Vietnamese. He said: You know, I really don't like this statue. I can't stand it. Do you know why, Dan? No. I have no idea, John. Look at what it says: John McCain, Major, U.S. Air Force. Then he let a few choice words out that I can't say here on the Senate floor. He said: I wasn't a major in the U.S. Air Force; I was a commander in the U.S. Navy. Even in the twilight of his life, the wit and wisecracks were as strong as ever. I had the honor of visiting Senator McCain about 6 weeks ago in Arizona with his wonderful wife Cindy. We were talking about the National Defense Authorization Act that we were getting ready to vote on that was named after him. I was getting ready to leave, and I said: John, I just want you to know all your Senate colleagues really miss you. He hadn't said much during the conversation. He looked at me and said: Dan, that is a lie. Again, after all he had been through, he still had a lightness of being and wit and laughter. He still knew how to love the world, how to appreciate it in all its humor, splendor, and creativity. The story of John McCain is a story for the ages--carefree, somewhat reckless young man; a rebel searching for a cause who found that cause in love of country as a POW in Vietnam; a person who underwent unimaginable pain and suffering and yet came back better for it and loved America more for it and wanted most of all to pass down that love, that sense of service to the next generation. He succeeded. Let me close by quoting the same Robert Louis Stevenson poem Senator McCain recited during his father's funeral service: Here he lies where he longed to be; Home is the sailor, home from the sea; And the hunter home from the hill. To Cindy McCain and the whole McCain family, please be assured of our continued prayers and deepest condolences for your loss. We miss John McCain so much, as we know you do. To my friend John McCain, Godspeed. Semper Fidelis. Fair winds and following seas. It was an honor to serve with you. You will always be with us. I yield the floor. ###
08.28.2018	08.28.18 Sullivan Applauds Senate Passage of American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) is applauding the Senate passage of S. 1322, the American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act, bipartisan legislation he introduced alongside Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) to create an Advisory Committee to assist in the awarding of fisheries marketing, research, and development grants. Alaska Congressman Don Young is the sponsor of companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Saltonstall-Kennedy grants are often recognized for making real, meaningful impacts in our nation’s fishing industry, but without the proper input and oversight from our fishermen we’re missing out on a number of opportunities for improvement and growth, particularly for marketing and overall global competitiveness,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Reestablishing this advisory committee is an important step forward for the strength of our fisheries and the long-term vitality of American caught seafood. I often say, Alaska is the superpower of seafood, but in order to maintain that remarkable status we must better focus federal grant dollars towards the priorities and needs of our nation’s fishing industry, including fishermen, vessel owners, distributors and processors. I commend lawmakers and industry groups from across the country for coming together in support of this legislation, and look forward to its swift passage in the U.S. House of Representatives.” “On behalf of the National Seafood Marketing Coalition I want to thank Senator Sullivan for his hard work in getting the Senate to pass this important legislation,” said Bruce Schactler, Director of the National Seafood Marketing Coalition. “This legislation will ensure that the original intent of the Saltonstall-Kennedy program is met by allowing U.S. Seafood Industry experts to help guide those much needed seafood development and marketing funds towards increasing the value of our fisheries for all sectors of the U.S. seafood industry and our coastal communities that rely so much on them.” S. 1322, the American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act unanimously passed the Senate on August 22, 2018 with a clarifying amendment offered by Senator Dan Sullivan and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA). The bill has been referred to the House Committee on Natural Resources. The Saltonstall Kennedy (SK) Act provides funding for fisheries marketing and development. These funds are derived from a portion of fishery import duties. To inform how these funds are allocated, Congress authorized a group of experts from different segments of the fishing industry to advise on commercial fishing problems and needs. Following a 1972 law, the original American Fisheries Advisory Committee was disbanded. In the Committee’s absence, the National Marine Fisheries Service decides, by its own criteria, who receives grants. In some cases, the priorities of the fishing industry do not match those of NMFS. The American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act would bring back the board of experts, with members chosen regionally and across all sectors of the fishing industry, to bring industry back into the process of identifying needs and funding priorities. In 2017, NMFS issued 41 grants worth $10 million. The American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act has garnered the support of a number of organizations, including the Alaska Fisheries Development Foundation, the United Fishermen of Alaska, and the North Pacific Fisheries Association. ###
08.24.2018	08.24.18 Sullivan Supports FY2019 Defense Appropriations Measure WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Service Committee, voted this week in support of a FY2019 appropriations package – the Senate amendment to H.R. 6157, the Minibus Appropriations Act – that includes annual defense appropriations. The bill marks the passage of the Senate’s eighth and ninth funding bill this year – the fastest pace the Senate has worked to complete its work on appropriations since 1988. “This bipartisan bill prioritizes the rebuilding of our military, improving readiness and investing in future technologies through increased funding for basic research, missile defense and hypersonics, all of which are needed to defend our nation,” said Senator Sullivan. The Defense appropriations bill contains a total of $675 billion in defense spending – $607.1 billion in regular, non-emergency budget authority and $67.9 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) budget authority. The package funds many of the critical investments and priorities authorized in the recent FY 19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), including funding for the largest pay raise for our troops in nearly 10 years (2.6 percent) and increases towards military end strength, modernization and readiness. Notable bill provisions Senator Sullivan advocated for include: Missile Defense: The bill adds $1.2 billion to the President’s request for missile defense – for a total of $11.1 billion for the Missile Defense Agency – to respond to increased threats including advanced capabilities being developed by rogue nations and emerging threats such as hypersonic glide vehicles. “By boosting funding for the Missile Defense Agency, Congress continues to show the critical importance of developing and strengthening our missile defense system – which protects Americans, our deployed forces, and our allies,” said Senator Sullivan. $421.8 million to continue the development of the Improved Homeland Defense Interceptor, also known as the Redesigned Kill Vehicle, to make homeland defenses more robust and help address the evolving threat. $130 million to require the MDA to accelerate the Hypersonic Missile Defense Program and requires that it be deployed in conjunction with a persistent space-based missile defense sensor program. $120.9 million for Ballistic Missile Defense System Space Programs supporting the continued development of a missile defense tracking system in space. $72.6 million for Missile Defense Testing recommending that MDA should continue to pursue a more rigorous testing regime that more rapidly delivers capabilities to the warfighter as the threat evolves. $316.8 million for Technology Maturation Initiatives including $85,000,000 above the budget request to continue research and development of three separate laser scaling efforts with the goal of demonstrating a 500 kilowatt laser by 2021, and a best of breed of 1 megawatt laser capability by 2023. Pay Raise and End Strength: $144 billion for military pay and supports a 2.6 percent annual pay raise for all troops. The bill increases active duty troop levels by 6,961 over fiscal year 2018 levels to 1,329,461 soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. Allies and Partners: $300 million for cooperative programs with Israel, in light of the growing threats to their nation, to support a joint U.S.-Israel Arrow 3 Upper Tier flight test at a U.S. test range to validate advanced Arrow Weapons System operational capabilities. Research and Development: Appropriates $96.3 billion for research and development, an increase of $7.1 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level. Increases science and technology funding by $1.8 billion. Increases funding above the president’s request in a number of areas identified as high priority for the DOD, including cyberspace, artificial intelligence, hypersonic, and space capabilities. Alaska-Related Items: USAF Procurement: $8.5 billion for 89 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, $0.8 billion and 12 aircraft above the president’s budget request including $4 billion for 48 F-35A fighters for the Air Force. Recently, Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska was selected as a preferred alternative for Pacific Air Force’s first two F-35 squadrons and this funding is vital to ensuring that these squadrons arrive on time at Eielson AFB in late 2019. Missile Defense Procurement: $565 million for Missile Defense Procurement and Advanced Procurement to address emergency warfighting readiness requirements of the Ground-based Midcourse Defense weapon system, including the operational and support facilities at Fort Greely, Alaska, and Vandenberg Air Force Base, California. This funding is critical to fielding 20 Redesigned Kill Vehicle-tipped Ground Based Interceptors at Fort Greely and a new 20-silo missile field by 2023. Research and Development: $359.2 million to support Ballistic Missile Defense sensors reaffirming that the U.S. should continue to explore and deploy capabilities that increase the layered defense of the United States homeland. The current sensors, including the U.S. Air Force Cobra Dane radar in Shemya, Alaska, and the Early Warning Radar in Clear, Alaska, allows the U.S. to detect and track threat missiles through all phases of their trajectory. Civil Air Patrol: $33.6 million for Civil Air Patrol Operations (CAP) ensures that the CAP has the funding it requires for all of its essential missions so they do not have to reduce emergency response support to the Air Force, DoD, FEMA, every state, and thousands of communities. This bill also provides $10.8 million for CAP procurement to account for critical needs. Insufficient aircraft procurement funding forces CAP to rely on less mission-capable aircraft that do not meet all mission requirements for their federal and state homeland security, search and rescue, and disaster relief missions. Training: $1.28 billion for Air Operations Training to include fighter lead-in training, combat mission and advanced tactical training for aircrew, and missile launch training for ballistic missile crews. This funding also supports 21 air-to-ground ranges, including the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex, and air-to-air training operations and combat training exercises, including the annual Red Flag-Alaska exercise held at Eielson Air Force Base. Combat Training Ranges: $236 million for Combat Training Ranges as modernizing and improving our nations’ training ranges is instrumental in preparing our armed forces to fight in contested operations against near-peer competitors. This increased funding for combat training ranges is an initial step in improving all Air Force ranges, including the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex (JPARC) so it can provide realistic training to Alaskan current and future 5th generation fighters (over 100 5th Generation fighters by 2020) as well as joint and coalition partners at large-scale, high-end exercises such as Red Flag-Alaska and Northern Edge. IRT: $27.5 million for Innovative Readiness Training – a $10 million increase over the President’s Budget – which contributes directly to military readiness and provides realistic combat support and combat service support training for National Guard and Reserve members. Equipment Modernization: $630 million to continue research and development for the replacement of the aging USAF HH-60 Pave Hawk, modified for Combat Search and Rescue in all-weather situations. ###
08.23.2018	08.23.18 Sullivan Presses Trump Administration on Chinese Seafood Tariffs Testifies at U.S. International Trade Commission Hearing in Support of Alaska Seafood Industry WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) testified today at the public hearing of the interagency Section 301 Committee at the U.S. International Trade Commission in opposition to the Trump administration’s recent tariff proposal on $200 billion worth of products imported from China – which includes an estimated $900 million in American seafood, primarily caught by Alaskan fishermen. “While I know there is much work that needs to be done to remedy deficits and hold countries like China accountable for unfair trade practices, I compel the administration – in putting ‘America First’ – to put American fishermen first,” said Senator Sullivan in support of the Alaska fishing industry. Senator Sullivan sharing his thought following today’s testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commission (click image or here to watch). “Of the products targeted by this proposal, over $900 million is American seafood, caught predominantly by Alaskan fishermen, much of which is destined for the American market. If enacted, these tariffs will clearly and wrongly target an American product harvested with American labor on American flagged vessels – completely counter to the administration’s strategy regarding China.” “If this were Chinese fish, harvested by Chinese fishermen on Chinese ships, then perhaps I would understand. But it isn’t and Alaskan fishermen are the ultimate American small business: they work hard, are family owned and take tremendous risks to produce a great product.” Sullivan concluded by stating, “I ask the administration to consider removing Chapter 3 and Chapter 16 tariff lines from the proposed trade action against products of China. The current proposal advantages Chinese and Russian fishermen over American fishermen and I am sure that was not the administration’s intent. I respectfully request that you change it.” Senator Sullivan’s full remarks at the public hearing of the interagency Section 301 Committee hearing can be found HERE. ###
08.20.2018	08.20.18 Mallott and Sullivan Continue to Press Canadian Government on Transboundary Mining WASHINGTON, DC – Following a trip to Ottawa, Canada earlier this year, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan and Alaska Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott have followed up with senior officials in the Canadian government to continue to raise the issue of transboundary mining impacting Southeast Alaska. In a letter addressed to the Minister of Environment Catherine McKenna and Minister of International Trade James Carr, Sen. Sullivan and Lt. Governor Mallott thanked the Canadians for their attention to transboundary mining issues . But they also stressed several key areas of concern that require continued attention. “While Alaska, British Columbia, the Department of State, and Global Affairs Canada have been working well together on a path forward, including conducting water quality surveys and exploring monitoring options, there is much progress that still needs to be made to address mutual concerns,” wrote Sen. Sullivan and Lt. Gov. Mallott. “To continue this dialogue we would like to take this opportunity to raise several of the issues that our governments need to address going forward: All diligence needs to be taken to reclaim the Tulsequah Chief Mine site. While British Columbia continues to march through the process of cleaning up the site, we hope that you can continue to lend your aid in coordinating and facilitating B.C.’s efforts. Both U.S. and Canadian governments need to continue to develop and agree upon a definition of a scientific protocol for 3-5 years of independent studies focused on the baseline/reference conditions of water quality and fish/wildlife populations in transboundary watersheds. We continue to urge your support in establishing and funding a joint water quality monitoring program for the transboundary rivers. In 2017, the U.S. Congress appropriated funding for transboundary river stream gages and directed the Bureau of Indian Affairs and United States Geological Survey to enter into a formal partnership with local tribes to develop a water quality strategy for transboundary rivers. This is vitally important not just to understand the impacts of existing operations, but to have baselines to assess future projects and protect Alaskans downstream. We urge you undertake similar efforts. We request the Canadian federal government consider conducting a review of the existing legacy, proposed, permitted, and operating mines in U.S.-B.C. transboundary watersheds under the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act. We urge you, through Global Affair Canada, to seriously consider the analysis developed by the United States to identify gaps in our different regulatory structures and continue our partnership to address these issues as we look toward the next meeting of the Department of State and Global Affairs Canada.” The full letter to Ministers McKenna and Carr can be found here. ###
08.20.2018	08.20.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Kara Nelson WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) last week recognized Kara Nelson, the Director of Haven House in Juneau, for her continued advocacy and work on behalf of those on their path to addiction recovery. Kara was honored as part of the “Alaskan of the Week” series. Senator Sullivan Honoring Kara Nelson as Alaskan of the Week (Click image or here to watch, click here to download). SENATE FLOOR TRIBUTE TO KARA NELSON -- (U.S. Senate - August 16, 2018): Mr. President, it is Thursday. Even though we had a short week here in the Senate, it is one of my favorite times of the week because I get to talk about the Alaskan of the Week, which is a recognition we give to somebody who is doing something important in our State. I can see by the smile on the pages’ faces that it is their favorite time of the week, too, because we talk about Alaska and we talk about somebody who is making a difference. Maybe, it is a difference just in their local community. Maybe, it is in the State. Maybe, it is nationwide. What I really enjoy doing in this speech every week is not just highlighting my great State. Of course, we all think our States are great. I know the Presiding Officer thinks his State is great, and I encourage people watching on TV or in the Galleries to come on up to Alaska. You will have the trip of a lifetime. There is great fishing right now and wonderful, beautiful scenery, but the reason you will love it so much is the people—strong, tough, resilient, wonderful people. That is what we do in terms of the Alaskan of the Week. We talk about the people. Today, I want to talk about someone very special, a woman who has become a good friend of mine, named Kara Nelson. She is our Alaskan of the Week. Kara calls Juneau home. Sometimes our Alaskans of the Week are unsung heroes. Maybe they have been working on something for years— decades, really—and not a lot of people know what they are doing. Other times, their efforts go from something hardly noticed to somebody who is really noticed. I would say that Kara is somebody who, over the last couple of years, is really noticed. She is kind of a rock star in the State, and to be honest, she deserves the attention that she is given. Kara works with women who have been in trouble, who have struggled with the issues of addiction, and have gone to prison sometimes for it. She is working with women who are trying to get a new start in life. There is nothing more important, I think—whether it is in Alaska or Louisiana, or anywhere in the country—than to give people a new start. Here is a little bit about Kara, who has been generous enough to share her story openly, because it can be a difficult story to tell. She was born and raised mostly in Ketchikan—‘‘logging camps,’’ she calls them. She was a good student. She was a good athlete. She got good grades. But then, unfortunately, like too many of our young people today—whether in Alaska or anywhere across the country—she started using drugs. Eventually drugs took over her life completely. She dropped out of high school, and, in her words, ‘‘lived the life of an addict’’ for 20 years. For two decades, she was addicted to heroin and other drugs. She was arrested in 2005 for drug-related charges. For years— again, like so many people who we are seeing in our country—she ping-ponged in and out of prison until she was released on June 1, 2011. It has been a tough life with tough experiences, but here is the good news. What has she done with that life since? She has been clean and sober ever since, which we all know is not easy. It takes courage. It takes discipline. She credits her faith and the peer support community she was able to find once she was released from prison. It is the kind of support she is now offering to hundreds of women across Alaska. Shortly after her release from prison, Kara began to attend meetings led by two women she knew had been part of prison ministries. These women, Ellen Campbell and Ramona Ignell, had an idea of opening up a place for women who were getting out of prison and needed help transitioning into freedom. They needed help. Many were going through their own addiction challenges. They thought Kara would be the perfect person to direct the program. As all Alaskans know now, they thought right because she was that person. In 2015, the transition house that Kara and others founded, called Haven House, in Juneau, AK, opened its doors. So far, 33 women have gone through the program and only 2 have reoffended, which is a remarkable record and success story. Kara is also involved in so many other programs throughout the State. There are actually too many to name, but let me give you a few highlights. These are just a few of the highlights of what she has done. She is the co-chair of the Juneau Reentry Coalition and the cofounder of the Juneau Recovery Community Organization. In 2016, she was a fellow of Just Leadership USA. She is an active member of the Juneau Homeless and Housing Coalition, Juneau’s Disability Abuse Response Team, Juneau’s Recovery Coaches Advisory Board, and Alaska’s Statewide Recidivism Reduction Task Force. The list is a lot longer than that. That gives you a sense of how involved she is and how much she cares about these issues. Last year, for all her work, she was awarded the prestigious Director’s Community Leadership Award from the FBI in recognition of her outstanding service to the advancement of justice. In the middle of all of this hard work, she went back to school to finish her associate’s degree and was able to be reunited with her three children. On paper and in a speech like this, this certainly all looks impressive, but I am here to tell you there is nothing like hearing her story in person. Let me take you back to a meeting I had in 2015. I had just been elected. Kara and seven other women—three of whom were recently out of prison and the first residents of Haven House— came to my office. They were in DC to attend a march to combat addiction. They were trying to get Members of the Senate and the House to support the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, cosponsored and led by my good friend Senator ROB PORTMAN, from Ohio, and my good friend from Rhode Island, Senator WHITEHOUSE. They came to my office. On this day, I had certainly one of the most impactful meetings I have had in the Senate. It was a meeting where they were all very honest and open about what they had been through, and, to be perfectly blunt, these women have been through hell. They talked about it with courage, grace, and dignity. They talked about how Alaskans were suffering through this addiction—opioid and heroin addiction, in particular— and how they needed help and how they needed Federal legislation. Their honesty, resiliency, and courage were something I was so impressed by, so moved by. In many ways, it was a gift for me as a Senator to see this and to try, just a little bit, to understand this. This meeting went very long. After I heard these stories, I started reading more about this crisis. It is impacting all of our States, and certainly many parts of Alaska. I told my staff that we have to focus on this. For 2 years, we convened a summit in our State. It was called the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis. Kara and her colleagues who came to see me inspired all of us to do this. In many ways, they were the stars of this event. They told the Alaskans who gathered their stories and their challenges. We talked about all kinds of issues—Federal, State, and local. We brought Federal officials to this summit. The Surgeon General of the United States came. The Deputy Secretary of HHS came. Statewide and local officials were all there gathering together, saying: We can do this. We can tackle this. Let’s work together. There is hope. There is hope because of people like Kara. I have a big State in terms of territory, but it is not a big State in terms of population. Over 500 people showed up at this summit, with several hundred more online to listen and to get ideas and to give us ideas and to get inspiration from people like Kara. Inspired by that summit and people like Kara, we are organizing another summit—actually, tomorrow—in Anchorage: the Alaska Wellness Summit 2.0. This event will also bring together, like we did before, a number of Federal, State, and local stakeholders to discuss not only the addiction epidemic but also issues relating to drug trafficking and, unfortunately, the associated crime wave that is hitting many of the communities in Alaska and victimizing many Alaskans. Kara will be one of the people in front of hundreds presenting at the summit. Again, she will likely talk about her own experiences and inspire people and give them courage that they can get through what they are going through, and she will talk about how successful peer-to-peer work has been for her and the other women she has been working with. Whatever she talks about tomorrow, I know that she will bring courage, insight, and internal fire because she has it. She has been through a lot. She is a leader, and she is a leader by example. I want to conclude by saying that her work and the work of so many others on tackling this crisis and all of the difficult side effects is so important. Kara, please keep it up. From the bottom of my heart, thank you for all the work you have done, for your courage, your commitment, and your inspiration, and, of course, congratulations to you on being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
08.18.2018	08.18.18 Alaska Wellness Summit 2.0: Confronting Alaska's Crime Wave Two years ago, I had the honor of convening the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis, an important gathering of federal, state and local community leaders dedicated to tackling the many challenges associated with the growing opioid and heroin epidemic. That summit, which largely focused on issues of addiction, recovery and community, was very productive – with hundreds of Alaskans gathering to listen, gain inspiration, learn and exchange ideas. Federal officials from several different agencies attended to hear the many obstacles Alaskans face when in recovery, as well as witness the indomitable spirit of Alaskans who have overcome those obstacles. On August 17, 2018, I held another Wellness Summit – this time focused not only on our addiction epidemic, but on drug trafficking and the associated crime wave that is victimizing so many Alaskans. The Alaska Wellness Summit 2.0: Confronting Alaska’s Crime Wave once again feature a prominent group of federal, state and local leaders and stakeholders to build public awareness, identify opportunities for coordination and cooperation, and highlight Alaska’s unique public safety challenges with federal officials. This 5-hour town hall style summit, co-hosted by the University of Alaska Anchorage College of Health, was open to the public and included more than 200 attendees and countless others online. We had four panel discussions, keynote addresses by key federal partners and most importantly very significant public engagement and questions. Overall it was a very successful and engaging day, with lots of input and suggestions from Alaskans that my office and our federal partners will certainly be taking back to DC. The Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, Jim Carroll, joined the discussion as a keynote speaker to outline Alaska’s recent High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) designation, which will help facilitate greater cooperation, criminal case coordination and information sharing among local, tribal, state and federal agencies currently engaged in counter-drug trafficking operations in Alaska. The Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, Admiral Karl Schultz, gave a keynote address on the Coast Guard’s role as our nation’s first line of defense against drug smugglers seeking to bring illegal substances into the United States. David Rybicki, the Deputy Assistant Attorney General at the Department of Justice in charge of the Criminal Division’s Organized Crime and Gang Section, also spoke on areas relating to violent crime, gang violence, anti-opioid initiatives and combatting threats posed to U.S. citizens. The summit also include a number of senior Alaska officials and community leaders, including: local mayors, law enforcement, public safety officials, community stakeholders, and media: Jahna Lindemuth – Alaska Attorney General Bryan Schroder – U.S. Attorney for the District of Alaska Walt Monegan – Alaska Commissioner of Public Safety Justin Doll – Anchorage Police Chief Jolene Goeden – Supervisory Special Agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation Ed Mercer – Juneau Police Chief Vern Halter – Mat-Su Borough Mayor Dr. Brad Myrstol – Associate Professor and Director of the UAA Justice Center Dr. Jay Butler – Chief Medical Officer, Alaska Department of Health and Human Services Kyle Hopkins – Special Projects Editor, Anchorage Daily News Leon Morgan – Director of the Alaska Criminal Information and Analysis Center, Alaska State Troopers Kara Nelson – Director of Haven House Nasruk Nay – Alaska State Trooper, Alaska Department of Public Safety *** For a detailed agenda, click here. *** There is no one solution to these challenges, particularly the issues surrounding the opioid and heroin epidemic and the influx of drugs coming into our state, but one thing is clear – it’s going to take collaboration among local, state and federal partners to tackle them. We've already seen certain progress, with the recent High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) designation Alaska received (which will bring in much needed funding to tackle drug trafficking and associated crime), and we'll continue working on more. Sincerely,
08.02.2018	08.02.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskans of the Week: Christine Pate and Nikole Nelson WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor this week in recognition of two Alaskans – Sitka resident Christine Pate, the Legal Director for the Alaska Network on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault, and Anchorage resident Nikole Nelson, the Executive Director of Alaska Legal Services. Both of these Alaskans have spent decades working tirelessly to bring legal representation to survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault in Alaska. Christine and Nikole were honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s “Alaskan of the Week” series. Sullivan Honoring Christine McCleod Pate and Nikole Nelson as Alaskans of the Week (Click image or here to watch, click here to download). TRIBUTE TO CHRISTINE McLEOD PATE AND NIKOLE NELSON -- (U.S. Senate - August 01, 2018) Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is the end of the week on the Senate floor, and it is my favorite time of the week. I think it is the pages' favorite time of the week, too, because we get to talk about the Alaskan of the Week. This is a speech I give every week. The whole purpose is to talk about somebody in my community, somebody in my great State, who has done something important for their fellow Alaskans or maybe their fellow Americans. Sometimes it is someone very famous. Other times it is somebody who is working hard every single day and doesn't get a lot of recognition. What we like to do is come and talk about them. We like to brag about them. I like to brag about my State. We all like to brag about our States. When it comes to size, beauty, grandeur, and majestic nature, I think Alaska takes the cake of all the other States, but others might disagree. I know the Presiding Officer loves his State very much. What we want to encourage people to do is come on up to Alaska, see it for yourselves. Spend some time there. We are getting ready for a little recess. Some of my Senate colleagues will be coming up and seeing our great State in the next week. I guarantee you, if you are watching, it is going to be the trip of a lifetime. You will love it, absolutely love it. More than anything, it is truly the people of Alaska who make it such a special place. We like to celebrate these people. They are individualistic, rugged, tough but very community-oriented. We call them our Alaskan of the Week. I am going to break a little rule on the Alaskan of the Week this week because it is going to be the Alaskans of the Week, not one but two -- two people who are doing great things and, in many ways, reinforcing each other's great work in Alaska. I am going to talk a little bit, though, about one of the challenges. We like to brag about how wonderful our States are. Let's face it, all States in our great Nation have challenges and problems. One of the ones that a number of us back home in Alaska are focused on is a really big challenge and a really problematic issue in my State; that is, the very high rate of domestic violence and sexual assault we have in Alaska. We have some of the highest rates in the country. This is horrible, and it impacts families and, of course, victims and survivors. Of course, it is not just a problem in Alaska; it is a problem all across the country. In Alaska, it is an acute problem. It is a big problem. The good news is, we have hundreds, if not thousands, of people in Alaska who have recognized this as a big problem and have banded together in using their energy, creativity, and drive to have turned to the survivors of this abuse and turn to help them and help them break out of what oftentimes is generational violence--family victims after family victims. Today, I recognize two such Alaskans, who are literally leading the way on this very important issue of helping the survivors of these heinous crimes: Sitka, AK, resident Christine Pate, who is the legal director for the Alaska Network on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault, and Anchorage resident Nikole Nelson, who is the executive director of Alaska Legal Services. These two women, for decades, have been leading the effort to bring legal services and other services to survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault in our State. They work together. They are leaders. They have helped hundreds, if not thousands, of victims and their families--think about that--over the last 20 years. Let's talk about them a little bit. Christine has done a great job with the Alaska Network on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault, ANDVSA, which is an umbrella organization for 25 domestic violence and sexual assault programs across the State. Christine is a cum laude graduate of the New York University School of Law. She came to Alaska in 1993, clerked for Sitka Superior Court Judge Larry Zervos, and after that, she worked for Alaska Legal Services in Fairbanks and then has been with ANDVSA for 20 years doing this very important work. Her demeanor was once described by a reporter as ``Clark Kent-like,'' which I would agree with if that means she has superpowers that are used to fight bad guys and help the good guys. Those who know her just call her wonderful, and I certainly would agree with that. At ANDVSA, she directs the coalition's statewide civil legal services program, which also includes both staff attorneys and approximately 60 active volunteer attorneys--again, to help survivors and victims of these heinous crimes. She also oversees legal training and technical assistance for program advocates. As a matter of fact, I was home a few months ago and went to one of her training programs. She does a phenomenal job. Nikole Nelson is her compatriot-in-arms. She made her way to Alaska 20 years ago, fresh out of Willamette University's College of Law, and her first job in Alaska--still doing it--was to work for Alaska Legal Services Corporation. She rose up through the ranks, and now she is the director. She, too, in my view, has superpowers, and she channels those powers to serve in the righteous cause of justice for the too many victims in my State who need it and don't have access to an attorney to help them. I cannot stress how important both the Alaska Network on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault and the Alaska Legal Services Corporation are for victims and survivors of these heinous crimes. I have had the opportunity and really the honor of working with both Christine and Nikole and their organizations very closely over the years. I am still a huge supporter of all they do and have watched them year after year doing the great work they do to stomp out the scourge of domestic violence in our State. Let me tell a little story of how we all worked together. When I was attorney general of the State, we had a big campaign strategy called the Choose Respect strategy, and one of the elements of that was to get more lawyers to help victims; to get more lawyers, pro bono attorneys, to come out and help victims, survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. Think about this: If you are an accused rapist, you get a Sixth Amendment right to counsel. That is in our Bill of Rights. If you are the victim, what do you get? You don't get anything. And far too often, the victims don't have any legal representation. They don't know how to use the justice system as a sword and a shield. What we were trying to do--what Nikole and Christine have been doing for decades--was to say to the survivors and victims: Wait a minute. We can get you a lawyer. We can help you. We can empower you. We held these pro bono legal summits throughout the State of Alaska, and dozens of lawyers came out of the woodwork and said: We will help you. We will be your sword and shield in the justice system. That is what we have done. That is what they have continued to do, and this makes a huge difference. As a matter of fact, of all the studies throughout the country on how you change this culture of abuse--in every study, one of the most important things is to get victims and survivors an attorney. So that is what they have been doing. We actually recently took that idea here to the Senate floor in a bill that Senator Heitkamp and I cosponsored called the POWER Act, which would create another layer of pro bono attorneys. The idea is to create an army of lawyers by the thousands in America to provide legal services for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. That passed the Senate, passed the House, came back over here, trying to hotline it, and it looks as though we hit a little glitch today. But I can't imagine any Senator who doesn't want to do this, so we will probably get this done after we are back from recess, and that will help take this idea nationwide. The leaders in our community in Alaska have been Nikole and Christine. As I mentioned, there are no simple solutions on this, but when an abused victim is represented by an attorney, their ability to break out of the cycle of violence increases dramatically. Just one study found that 83 percent of victims represented by an attorney were able to obtain a protective order versus almost 30 percent of victims without an attorney. But here is the problem: There was a recent report by a national group that focuses on these issues. In 2014, in 1 day, there were over 10,000 victims who went without services, like legal services. So there is a desperate need. Christine and Nikole have been the ones leading the charge. I talk about an army of attorneys to do this kind of pro bono legal work in Alaska--they are the captains leading this charge. Christine likes to quote one of the advocates she works with when she talks about her work. She says: ``It is so satisfying to see the relief wash over a person's face when they realize that there's an end in sight and they don't have to live like that in a cycle of violence anymore because they have an attorney representing them.'' Nikole has been traveling the globe with her daughter the past month thanks to a much needed sabbatical grant from Alaska's Rasmuson Foundation. Nikole, I hope you are having a much needed rest. Let me end with a quote written by her about the work Alaska Legal Services does, the work she leads in our great State. She said: ``In any given day, the people who come seeking our services may be moms that have been abused by their spouse, oftentimes in front of their children, and they come to us because they do not have the financial means to leave that abuse.'' They help them with that. ``We may have a grandfather who is struggling to care for his grandchildren and he fears he is going to lose his home. ..... For all of these problems, there is a civil legal solution. But unlike in criminal cases where a defendant is guaranteed a court-appointed attorney if they cannot afford one, in civil cases''--in these kinds of domestic violence and civil action cases--``there is no [right to an attorney].'' And what they do is they provide it, particularly to victims of these heinous crimes. Christine and Nikole lead organizations that are doing great work not only in Alaska, but nationwide, Legal Services Corporation does this work, and I am a big supporter of them here in the Senate. Christine and Nikole, thank you for all the great work you have done over the years. Thanks for your tremendous spirit of generosity and kindness. I know I can thank you on behalf of so many survivors of these crimes whom you have helped, and their families. Thanks for being our joint Alaskans of the week this week in the U.S. Senate. I yield the floor. ###
08.02.2018	08.02.18 Alaska Delegation Welcomes Agreement Launching Work on Alaska Roadless Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statements after the State of Alaska and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to officially initiate the rulemaking process to develop an Alaska-specific Roadless Rule, ensuring greater access to our national forests. “As I have said many times before, the Roadless Rule has never made sense in Alaska. I welcome today’s announcement, which will help put us on a path to ensure the Tongass is once again a working forest and a multiple use forest for all who live in southeast,” Murkowski said. “I thank Secretary Perdue for recognizing the need for economic relief in these communities, and look forward to continuing to work with the administration, state officials, Sen. Sullivan, and Congressman Young to see this process through to the finish line.” “I welcome this first step to set forest management and the economy of Southeast Alaska back on track,” Sullivan said. “The Roadless Rule as applied to Alaska doesn’t work—it doesn’t work for our timber or mining industries and it doesn’t work for hydro and other renewable energy development either. As even the Supreme Court has recognized, Alaska is different. I am glad the Forest Service is committed to work with the State of Alaska and the people affected by its policies to create a more workable regulation that can provide for responsible development.” “I have always maintained that the roadless rule does not work in Alaska. It not only violates ANILCA, but it has made the timber industry in Southeast Alaska difficult to sustain,” Young said. “This one-size-fits-all approach doesn’t account for Alaska’s unique history and geography. I thank Secretary Perdue for his leadership and look forward to continuing to work with him, as well as my colleagues in Congress, to ensure Alaska’s national forests are properly managed.” The MOU signing comes roughly a month after Secretary Perdue’s visit with Murkowski to Prince of Wales Island, which allowed him to see firsthand the challenges presented by a “one-size-fits all” Roadless Rule. During his trip, Perdue heard directly from community leaders about the need to have a working forest that allows for multiple use to build a stronger, more sustainable economy in southeast Alaska. The Tongass, which is the nation’s largest national forest, spans 16.7 million acres, but federal regulatory restrictions, particularly the Roadless Rule, are impacting access for timber, hunting, mining, recreation, and even renewable energy development. The result is a weaker regional economy, as local communities face higher energy costs and fewer employment opportunities. A notice of intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the rulemaking will be published in the Federal Register this summer, and will provide an opportunity for local stakeholders to weigh in during the process. ###
08.01.2018	08.01.18 National Defense Authorization Act Moves to President’s Desk with Critical Priorities for Alaska, the Arctic, Overall Defense of Nation Sullivan: “For the first time ever, the NDAA includes an authorization of up to six heavy, polar-class icebreakers for the U.S. Coast Guard - something that is long overdue” WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly passed the Conference Report to H.R. 5515, the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and conferee, applauded the passage, which continues the 57-year bipartisan tradition of passing this bill. The bill authorizes $716 billion, which includes a 2.6% pay increase for our service members and includes a number of critical provisions important to Alaska. “This bipartisan bill continues the process of rebuilding our military, which for years had been constrained by sequestered-budgets and Obama administration defense cuts, and it continues to recognize that Alaska’s military capabilities play an important role in our national defense as global threats increase,” said Senator Sullivan. “The title of this bill is also more than fitting. Senator McCain has served his country in the Senate for more than three decades, including as the current Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and for decades in the U.S. Navy, including five years as a POW in North Vietnam. He has an unwavering love for his country and has been an example for people of all ages of courage, tenacity and grit.” Icebreakers/Updated Arctic Strategy: “For the first time ever, the NDAA includes an authorization of up to six heavy, polar-class icebreakers for the U.S. Coast Guard – something that is long overdue,” said Senator Sullivan. “America is beginning to wake up to the strategic importance of the Arctic. This year’s authorization, coupled with an updated Department of Defense Arctic Strategy, starts to signal to the world, that because of Alaska, we are an Arctic nation and that we will protect our interests in this critical region.” Authorization of Six Heavy Polar-Class Icebreakers: The FY19 NDAA includes a provision secured by Senator Sullivan to authorize up to six heavy, polar-class icebreakers for the U.S. Coast Guard. In addition, this provision expresses Congress’ belief that the first new icebreaker should be delivered no later than Fiscal Year 2023, the next two by FY 2026, and the final three by FY 2029. Arctic Strategy: Continuing Senator Sullivan’s work on Arctic issues, the FY2019 NDAA requires an updated Arctic Strategy. This strategy would include a description of the roles and missions of each military service in the Arctic region in the context of joint operations to support the Arctic strategy and a description of near-term and long-term training, capability, and resource gaps that must be addressed to fully execute each mission described in the Arctic strategy against an increasing threat environment. This strategy would also require DoD to detail its cooperation with Alaskan State and local governments, and tribal entities related to the defense of the Arctic region. Missile Defense: “Building off the success of last year’s missile defense provisions, this year we continued the effort by authorizing the full development and deployment of a space-based sensor layer,” said Senator Sullivan. “Our missile defense system – which protects Americans, our deployed forces, and our allies – is made significantly better with an integrated layer of space sensors. And once again – working in bipartisan fashion – Congress is stepping up to lead this critical missile defense effort.” Overall Missile Defense Funding: Fully authorizes the President’s request for missile defense and adds $140 million to the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) for development of critical directed energy and space sensing projects, and the acceleration of hypersonic defense capabilities. Develops and Deploys Space-based Sensors: This year’s FY19 NDAA mandates the development of space-based sensors and requires those efforts be compatible with on-going efforts at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Additionally, this provision requires a report on how MDA would accelerate the development and deployment of the sensor architecture. Boost Phase Missile Defense: the FY19 NDAA includes a provision to require the Department of Defense to develop air-launched and/or ship-based boost phase intercept capabilities, working with both Japan and South Korea. Additionally, the provision requires the Secretary of Defense to conduct a feasibility study on providing an initial or demonstrated boost phase capability using unmanned aerial vehicles and kinetic interceptors by December 31, 2021. Supports a Layered Defense: The FY19 NDAA includes a provision to express the Sense of Congress that the U.S. should continue to explore and deploy capabilities that increase the layered defense of the United States homeland. Accelerating Capabilities: the FY19 NDAA includes a provision to require MDA to report on accelerating key capabilities including the deployment of 20 ground-based interceptors with redesigned kill vehicles to Alaska. Acceleration of Hypersonic Defenses: The FY19 NDAA includes a provision to require MDA to accelerate the hypersonic missile defense program and requires that it be deployed in conjunction with a persistent space-based missile defense sensor program. Missile Defense Testing: The FY19 NDAA includes a provision to express the Sense of Congress that MDA should continue to pursue a more rigorous testing regime that more rapidly deliver capabilities to the warfighter as the threat evolves. Alaska Specific Items: “Working alongside Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young, I’m proud to say that over the past three years we have been able to authorize and secure nearly $1.3 billion in military construction funding for our state,” said Senator Sullivan. Alaska MILCON: The FY19 NDAA authorizes $286.8 million for Alaska military construction. OCONUS Medical Facility – Medical Readiness Regions’ Hubs: Directs the Department of Defense to create a new healthcare delivery framework by establishing five health-readiness regions – three regions within the contiguous U.S (CONUS) and two outside the continuous the U.S. (OCONUS) – with each region containing a hub facility provide complex, specialized medical services. For the OCONUS region, language inserted by Senator Sullivan specifies that, when deciding which location to choose for regional OCONUS hub, the Department of Defense should focus their decision on meeting the needs of existing and future contingency and operational plans. As Alaskans know, Alaska’s strategic location makes it a critical part of such contingency and operational plans. Cold Weather Training: The FY19 NDAA requires the DoD to analyze current and future cold weather training requirements for all four services and to look for opportunities to expand cold weather training. Notably, this provision requires an analysis of potential cold weather amphibious landing locations for live fire exercises and an analysis of potential State and tribal partnerships on cold weather training. Innovative Readiness Training: The FY19 NDAA supports funding future local reserve training projects in Alaska, including Operation Arctic Care, which provides roving medical and dental care to Rural Alaska villages. Spaceports Study: Complimentary to efforts Senator Sullivan has led over the past three NDAAs, the Conference Report includes a provision to require the Secretary of Defense to conduct a study on space launch locations, including with respect to the development and capacity of existing and new locations. The conference report notes that Alaska already has an operational spaceport and encourages the use of such spaceports and complexes, like the one in Alaska, for certain orbits in support of national security space priorities Kodiak Spaceport: Given the importance of assured access to space to U.S. national security, this provision highlights and encourages expanding the Department of Defense’s and the Missile Defense Agency’s use of FAA-licensed spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak Island, as a vital part of our space and missile-defense test missions. Arctic Search and Rescue: The Alaska National Guard independently developed an Arctic search and rescue package that allows them to respond to potential large-scale mass-casualty events in the Arctic. The FY19 NDAA includes a provision that brings attention to that effort and encourages the DoD to provide additional resources to field and expand Arctic search and rescue capabilities. SUSV Replacement Report: This provision requires the Department of Defense to conduct a DoD-wide operational needs review and to consider granting rapid acquisition authorities to procure a replacement to the Small Unit Support Vehicle (SUSV), which is the only vehicle that units can use to operate in deep snow conditions in Alaska. BCA for 168th ARW: Requires the USAF to update a Business Case Analysis on creating an active-association with the 168th Air Refueling Wing. This provision has the USAF consider new factors since the last analysis including the stationing of two squadrons of F-35s at Eielson AFB and increased operations tempo due to increased NORAD mission requirements since 2014. Kodiak Spaceport: Given the importance of assured access to space to U.S. national security, this provision highlights and encourages expanding the Department of Defense’s and the Missile Defense Agency’s use of FAA-licensed spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak Island, as a vital part of our space and missile-defense test missions. ###
07.31.2018	07.31.18 Sullivan Continues Effort to Bring Americans Equal Access to Justice, Split Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals “Unfortunately, as it is currently constituted, the Ninth Circuit Court is inefficient, it delays, and therefore denies justice for millions of Americans.” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) is continuing his efforts to bring Alaskans and Americans equal access to justice by introducing legislation to provide the necessary judgeships and structural changes to our nation’s Federal Judiciary. Senator Sullivan recently introduced S. 3259, the Judicial Efficiency Improvement Act – alongside Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) – to authorize all of the additional judgeships recommended by the Judicial Conference of the United States, split the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and create a new Twelfth Circuit Court of Appeals, headquartered in Seattle, Washington. “The last time Congress passed a comprehensive Article III judgeship bill was in 1990—nearly three decades ago,” Senator Sullivan said. “This is unacceptable. Our courts are clogged and dysfunctional, and the public is losing confidence in our judicial system. The Judicial Efficiency Improvement Act would codify the recommendations of the Judicial Conference by authorizing significantly more judges for District and Appellate courts across the country. It would also create a much-needed new circuit by spitting the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals—which has 65 million Americans under its jurisdiction, almost 30 million more than the next largest circuit. Currently, the Ninth Circuit has the highest caseload per judge by far of all circuits, four times the number of backlogged cases and on average it takes 30 percent longer for the Ninth Circuit to dispose of an appeal than the other circuits.” “In 1970, Chief Justice Warren Burger warned that ‘a sense of confidence in the courts is essential to maintain the fabric of ordered liberty for a free people,’ and cautioned that inefficiency and delay in our courts of appeals could destroy that confidence. Unfortunately, as it is currently constituted, the Ninth Circuit Court is inefficient, it delays, and therefore denies justice for millions of Americans. We cannot allow the confidence in our system of justice to be undermined by continuing a court of appeals that is so large and so unwieldy.” Additionally, Senator Sullivan submitted testimony to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal Rights and Federal Courts, which earlier today held a hearing on the structure of the federal courts. The hearing witnesses included Judge Diarmuid O’Scannlain, a Senior Judge on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, who testified in support of splitting the Ninth Circuit. Background on S. 3259, the Judicial Efficiency Improvement Act The judicial Conference of the United States is the national policy-making body for the federal courts. It is comprised of the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, the Chief Judge from each Judicial Circuit, the Chief Judge of the Court of International Trade, and a district judge from each regional circuit. Every two years, the Judicial Conference makes recommendation on judgeships. The Judicial Efficiency Improvement Act would implement the 2017 Judicial Conference recommendations by: Authorizing five appellate Court Judgeships for the Ninth Circuit. Authorizing 52 permanent District Court Judgeships around the county. Converting eight temporary District Court Judgeships to permanent judgeships. The Judicial Efficiency Improvement Act would create a Twelfth Circuit Court of Appeals: Currently, the Western states are subjected to an overburdened, inconsistent, and slow judiciary. This stems from having the largest circuit court in the nation in terms of geography, population, and workload. Creating a new circuit would solve the inefficiencies associated with this size, and work toward restoring access to justice to restore many American’s access to justice. Twelfth Circuit: Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon and Washington would create a new 12th Circuit. The new 12th Circuit would be headquartered in Seattle, Washington and served by 14 Appellate Court Judges. Ninth Circuit: California, Hawaii, Guam, and the Mariana Islands would remain in the 9th Circuit, headquartered in San Francisco, California and served by 20 Appellate Court Judges. ###
07.25.2018	07.25.18 Sullivan, Tester, Udall Fight to Improve VA Services for Native American Veterans Senators Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Establish VA Advisory Committee on Tribal and Indian Affairs WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Jon Tester (D-MT), and Tom Udall (D-NM.) today introduced bipartisan legislation to improve VA outreach, health care and benefits for Native American veterans. The Senators introduced the VA Tribal Advisory Committee Act to establish a VA Advisory Committee on Tribal and Indian Affairs. The Committee will facilitate communication and understanding between the VA and Tribal governments to better address the unique barriers Native American veterans face when accessing the VA. “Alaska has more veterans per capita than any state in the country, and Alaska Native veterans serve at higher rates in the U.S. military than any other ethnic group – bravely answering the call to serve, even during the darker times in our nation’s history when many were discriminated against and denied basic rights,” said Senator Sullivan, a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “This special kind of patriotism is unique, as are the health care and access challenges impacting these veterans across Alaska and the United States. I am pleased to have worked with my colleagues on this bipartisan legislation which seeks to amplify the voices of these communities within the VA and ensure that they are heard.” “Native Americans have signed up to serve our country at a historically high rate and the VA must do more to make sure they have access to the health care and benefits they earned,” said Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Our bipartisan bill will make sure that Native American veterans have a seat at the table as the VA comes up with important solutions to connect Indian Country with VA services.” “Native veterans, including many in New Mexico, put their lives on the line for our country -- but too many of these courageous men and women aren’t able to access the services they have earned,” said Udall, Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. “The bipartisan VA Advisory Committee on Tribal and Indian Affairs will improve the department’s government-to-government relationship with tribes, and it will generate solutions that make VA programs work for Native veterans across Indian Country.” “Veterans hold a place of honor in Native communities,” said Jefferson Keel, President of the National Congress of American Indians. “Too often our Native Veterans do not benefit from the programs and resources they earned through their service to this country. The Department of Veterans Affairs Tribal Advisory Committee Act would ensure federal policy makers are considering and working to address the unique challenges that make accessing programs difficult for Veterans in our communities.” The Senators’ VA Tribal Advisory Committee Act will establish a 15 member Committee representing each of the 12 regions of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including three at-large Native American members and at least four veterans. The Committee will facilitate communication between the VA and Tribal governments, meet face-to-face with the VA Secretary to provide guidance on Tribal and Indian Affairs, and report to Congress its recommendations for legislation to improve Native American veterans’ access to VA care and benefits. ###
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Robert Wilkie as Next VA Secretary WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the Senate voted 86 – 9 to confirm Robert Wilkie as the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs: “Today, alongside an overwhelming majority of my colleagues in the Senate, I cast my vote in support of Robert Wilkie to become our next Secretary of Veteran Affairs. Mr. Wilkie brings a level of experience and institutional knowledge necessary to tackle a number of leading issues facing the VA, including the implementation of the VA Mission Act. One of the many challenges facing the VA is the fact that it’s had four secretaries in four years. It’s my hope that Secretary Wilkie will provide a level of certainty and stability needed to ensure Alaska’s 77,000 veterans get the healthcare and benefits they have earned and deserve. As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I look forward to working closely with Secretary Wilkie and getting him to Alaska to see firsthand the unique challenges facing our veterans.” The Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs held a hearing to consider Wilkie’s nomination on June 27, and he was approved by the committee on July 10. U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) is the only current member of the U.S. Senate who serves on the Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, while also continuing his own military service as a Lt. Colonel in the United States Marine Corps Reserve. ###
07.20.2018	07.20.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Jeanne Follett WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor this week in recognition of Jeanne Follett from Moose Pass. For over a decade during the summers, Jeanne has helped keep Alaska clean by volunteering hours nearly every day cleaning up trash from the side of the of Seward and Sterling Highways. She estimates that she covers around 50 miles of highway every season. Jeanne was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan's "Alaskan of the Week" series. Senator Sullivan honoring Jeanne Follett as Alaskan of the Week (click image or here to watch, click here to download video). TRIBUTE TO JEANNE FOLLETT -- (U.S. Senate - July 19, 2018) Mr. President, it is Thursday afternoon, and it is one of my favorite times of the week. I know for many of my fellow Senators, including the Presiding Officer and the pages, this is one of their favorite times of the week, too, because it is the time that we get to talk about the Alaskan of the Week. I had a couple of people today ask me: “Senator, when are you giving your speech on the Alaskan of the Week?” I said: “Later.” They said: “OK. We will keep an eye on it--because people find a lot of interest in what is happening in the great State of Alaska.” The Alaskan of the Week, as many of my colleagues know, is somebody whom we like to highlight who has done great stuff for the State, community, town, maybe country. Sometimes it is someone famous. Oftentimes, it is somebody who has been working really hard for much of their life and doesn't get a lot of recognition. They are the heroes of the community. That is why we like to talk about the Alaskan of the Week. It is also a great opportunity to talk to people in the Gallery or people watching on TV, on C-SPAN, to get them to come on up to Alaska. Come on up. It will be the trip of a lifetime. Of course, it is a gorgeous, huge State with mountains, glaciers, and wildlife, but when you get off the plane in Alaska, you get the sense of freedom--liberty. You can almost breathe it in ways that you can't in other places. I tell everybody who is watching: Come on up. You will love it. It will be the trip of a lifetime. You will feel that freedom in the air like you do in almost no other place in the world. Let me introduce you to our Alaskan of the Week, Jeanne Follett, who has displayed incredible commitment to keep our State clean and special. Let's talk about Jeanne. She was born in Detroit. She moved to Anchorage when she was just 6 years old and has called Alaska home ever since. Like so many Alaskans, she has led a very interesting and varied life. She began her professional career as a court reporter for the Anchorage Daily News, our big newspaper, covering all kinds of trials when the State was still new and our court system had just been formed. Remember, we are a very young State. Eventually, she moved to Girdwood, which is a beautiful ski resort town outside of Anchorage, where she was a breakfast cook and managed condos. She got a bit restless. She packed up her 1965 Mustang and drove across the country but missed Alaska so much she came back home again. Then she worked on the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, TAPS, as we call it, that flows the billions of barrels of oil from the North Slope down to Valdez for an energy-hungry country like ours. She met her husband Ken as she was working on the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. They bought a lodge in a wonderful, small community called Moose Pass--a warm, welcoming, and gorgeous Alaska community in the heart of the Kenai Peninsula, about 100 miles south of Anchorage. If you are going to fish the famous Russian River, Moose Pass is a great home base. Ken and Jeanne worked at the resort until they both retired. Jeanne always liked to keep her yard and her surroundings clean and organized, free of trash, but when her husband Ken, unfortunately, got sick--and, tragically, she lost him over 13 years ago--Jeanne began to spend her days helping clean up the State; picking up trash on the road by her House, farther and farther from her home in Moose Pass. Think of this, as the snow melts in Alaska, and in all sorts of weather, to this day, Jeanne laces up her hiking boots, grabs her visors, her gloves, her safety vest, drives up the highway to the spot where she left off the previous day, and she starts cleaning up the highway every single day. She gets out her bags. She starts walking and cleaning up trash on the side of the highway. This highway abuts the majestic, beautiful Chugach National Forest. She guesses that every summer, she spends 3 to 6 hours a day volunteering picking up trash. Think about that. Alaska is a beautiful, pristine place. As a matter of fact, that is one of the things, when people come to visit, they are going to see, but like all States, in particular highway areas in States, you have some garbage. Jeanne takes action every single day. She doesn't get paid. So 3 to 6 hours a day, 5 days a week, she is out there cleaning up the highway. Remarkable. Sometimes friends and neighbors come and help out or Boy Scouts join her. One summer, she picked up 800 bags of trash to keep Alaska clean and pristine. People stop on the side of the road to talk to her or ask where the nearest gas station is. Sometimes people donate gas money to her because, remember, she is starting where she left off the next day, driving up the highway 40 miles to continue. It is not just time and effort, it is actual money. She thinks her presence on the side of the highway helps motivate others. There was a story recently on KTUU, Channel 2, our big news station in Alaska. She said in that story that she thinks she has helped inspire people to keep the whole State clean, whether it is picking up trash themselves or not throwing litter outside your car. Why does she do it, several hours a day, with no pay, day after day, week after week? She does it because she loves Alaska. She wants to keep it clean. We have hundreds of thousands--really millions--of tourists who come to our State. She doesn't want them to see trash when it is going to be the trip of a lifetime. She said: It embarrasses me to think that tourists from the lower 48 might show up in Alaska and see trash, so I am going to clean it up. She does it because it is her way to give back to a State that has given her so much. She also gets to see things that others don't see often: beautiful wildflowers on the road, creeks, secret vistas. I am sure she has seen a few bears and a lot of bald eagles and moose. She even saw a man once walking a chicken. Yes, you see everything in Alaska. Jeanne has found lost items on the side of the road: fishing licenses, cell phones, cameras. She tries her best to get these back to their owners. Once she found a set of hubcaps that had contact information on it for the owner. When she called and told him she had his hubcaps, he couldn't believe it. He was tickled pink to get his hubcaps back. I think every State has somebody like Jeanne. There is no doubt, we all owe a debt of gratitude to people like Jeanne, working selflessly, volunteering thousands of hours to keep our States like Alaska clean, to keep America clean. So, Jeanne, thanks for what you are doing for the great State of Alaska, and thank you and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
07.17.2018	07.17.18 Sullivan's Bipartisan POWER Act Passes Out of House Legislation to Equip Domestic Violence Survivors with Legal Tools WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Alaska Congressman Don Young praised the House-passage of S.717, the Pro Bono Work to Empower and Represent (POWER) Act. The POWER Act, as amended in the U.S. House, mandates that each year for four years, the Chief Judge of each Judicial District across the country hold at least one event promoting pro bono legal services as a critical way to empower survivors of domestic violence, stalking, and sexual assault, engage citizens, and help lift victims out of the cycle of violence. The bill also requires that every two years for four years, an event be held in areas with high numbers of Native Americans and Alaska Natives, with a focus on addressing these issues among Native populations. The bill now returns to the Senate for consideration. “The statistics on victims of sexual assault and domestic violence in Alaska and across the country are horrific,” said Senator Sullivan, sponsor of S. 717. “Roughly 25 percent of American women will be victims of domestic assault in their lifetime. On average, every day in our country, three women are killed by a current or former partner. Combating this scourge has been one of my priorities in the Senate and the need for urgent action is now. My hope is that the bipartisan POWER Act will help create an army of lawyers to defend victims of abuse. I’m grateful for the support of Congressman Young, Rep. Joe Kennedy (D-MA), and a bipartisan coalition in the House and Senate that offered their support for this legislation. I look forward to its timely passage in the Senate.” “Domestic violence is a tear in fabric of our society and no one is immune to it – unfortunately far too many Alaskans have first-hand experience with this reality,” said Congressman Young. “In a 2015 survey of Alaskan victims of domestic violence, out of every 100 women surveyed at least 40 experienced intimate partner violence and 33 women experienced sexual violence. Not only must we do more to prevent this devastating epidemic from growing, but we must also do more to help survivors of domestic violence. The POWER Act does just that. This bill is an important step for providing domestic violence victims with increased access to the pro bono legal tools available to help stem the tide of violence in our communities.” Watch Congressman Don Young’s floor remarks on S. 717 (click image or here to watch). Background on the POWER Act The National Network to End Domestic Violence estimated that over the course of one day in September 2014, up to 10,000 requests for services by abused women, including legal representation, weren’t met because of lack of resources. Studies have shown that when abuse victims are represented by an attorney, their ability to break out of the cycle of violence increases dramatically. For example, one study found that 83 percent of victims represented by an attorney were able to obtain a protective order compared to just 32 percent of victims without an attorney. The POWER Act is modeled after the pro bono summits Senator Sullivan organized throughout the state while he was Attorney General of Alaska working on the Choose Respect campaign. The POWER Act was introduced in the Senate by Senator Sullivan and Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND). Senators Shaheen (D-NH), Murkowski (R-AK), Capito (R-WV), Cornyn (R-TX) and Daines (R-MT) also were original co-sponsors of the bill. It passed the Senate unanimously in August 2017. Congressman Young, alongside Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-IN), and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced companion legislation in the House in March 2017. In recent months, Senator Dan Sullivan worked with stakeholders to clarify language within S. 717 in order to ensure its timely passage in the House. The amended S. 717 now returns to the Senate, where it will once again require passage before heading to the President’s desk. ###
07.13.2018	07.13.18 ICYMI: Sullivan Speaks on Importance of Allies Following NATO Summit WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and former U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Economic, Energy and Business Affairs, spoke on the Senate floor yesterday to discuss his thoughts following the NATO Summit in Brussels, Belgium. Senator Sullivan speaking on the importance of allies and alliances following this week’s NATO Summit (click image or here to watch). NATO SUMMIT (U.S. Senate – July 12, 2018): Mr. President, this afternoon, I want to say a few words about the President's visit to NATO and the NATO meeting we just had and talk about the importance of alliances and our allies. If you read the press accounts, I think you will see that this trip and the meeting of the President with all of the NATO leaders in Brussels was, overall, a good trip. There has been this commitment by NATO members since at least 2014--but it really goes way earlier than 2014--for each country to spend 2 percent or more of their GDP on defense spending so that we share the burden of defense. The United States has essentially always met this target--easily met this target--but a lot of other countries haven't. They have heard time and again from Presidents about this, and yet they have kind of ignored it. The success of this trip is that it looks like for the first time in years, NATO countries are moving away from cuts in defense spending. Even in the United States, from 2010 to 2016, we were cutting our defense spending. Although it was way above 2 percent, we cut it by almost 25 percent. We saw a huge drop in readiness. We are changing that. Almost all of the NATO countries are starting to add billions of dollars to defense spending. I think the President deserves a lot of the credit for really pressing this issue. Other U.S. Presidents have pressed it, and the Europeans have kind of ignored it, and it seemed to go away. President Trump stayed focused on it, and we are starting to see a shift, and I think he deserves credit. The President also highlighted a big national security issue that is in Europe that doesn't get a lot of attention, but that should get a lot of attention, and that is the issue of energy, particularly natural gas and how Russia feeds a lot of Europe--particularly, in this case, Germany. That undermines energy security and national security in Europe and in NATO. It is a controversial topic. A lot of countries in Europe don't like the fact that Germany is spending so much to import Russian gas when NATO is actually focused on defending Europe against Russia. I think the President also did a good job highlighting this issue and how we need to focus on this. We are seeing some Europeans protesting the visit of our President, but I will state this--and you don't read about this a lot: There has been no Western leader who has done more to undermine Western interests and Western national security and European energy security than the former Chancellor of Germany, Gerhard Schroeder. He was the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and when he left office, what did he do? He immediately went to work for Gazprom and Vladimir Putin to sell natural gas to European countries, including his own government and his own country, Germany. To me, that represents a remarkable betrayal of Western values, NATO security, and European energy security. It doesn't get highlighted, but, for our German friends--and they are our good, close allies--it is one thing to protest our President, but take a look at your former Chancellor. He is doing more damage to the national security of Europe and the energy security of Germany and our allies than probably anybody else in Europe. The bottom line is this 2 percent GDP goal and this concern that we have with Russian energy going into European capitals. These have been bipartisan concerns of Democratic and Republican administrations of the United States for decades, and I think at this NATO summit we are starting to see some good progress. The President ended the NATO meeting by saying: The United States' commitment to NATO is very strong, remains very strong, and the spirit of countries willing to spend additional amounts of money is amazing to see. To see that level of spirit in the room of all the leaders is incredible. That is what the President said today, and I think that was a good message with which to end this NATO leaders' summit in Brussels. I want to emphasize another point about our alliances and about NATO. It is also important to know that NATO is not just the sum of the amount of money that countries spend. That is important. There is no doubt about it. But this alliance, which many have viewed as the most successful military alliance in history, is a lot more than just money. At its heart, it is about common values. At its heart, it is about countries coming together to defend democracy. At its heart, it is about countries that have the same core national security interests. This is very important. At its heart, it is about shared sacrifice. There is shared sacrifice in the checkbook, yes, but it goes way beyond this. It is very important to remember article 5 of the NATO treaty, which is the treaty by which countries invoke the common defense. When you invoke article 5, that means that all of the other allies are coming to help you. All of the other allies are coming to defend you. Article 5 has been invoked in the NATO treaty, which was passed by this body in 1949, one time. It was invoked one time--one time. When was it invoked? After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Our NATO allies said: We are going to help defend America--that is really important--and they did. They did. Again, we talk too much about dollars, and I commend the President for what he has done, but let's talk about other shared sacrifice. The alliances we have around the world aren't just about money. Since 9/11, over 1,000 non-U.S. NATO troops have been killed in action in Afghanistan, coming to our defense after 9/11 and going after the terrorists who killed over 3,000 Americans on 9/11. Over 1,000 NATO soldiers--non-American NATO soldiers--have paid the ultimate sacrifice because of the alliance they have with the United States. You can't put a pricetag on that. You can't put a pricetag on that. Some sacrifices are more than just dollars. Some sacrifices can't be measured in dollars, and I think it is important for all of us here in the Senate, for the Trump administration, and for all Americans to remember that. I wish to thank the families of those over 1,000 NATO alliance soldiers who have been killed in action and the thousands and thousands more who have been wounded in Afghanistan, hunting down terrorists who killed our citizens. It is very important to remember that. The bottom line is this when it comes to one of the most important and enduring strategic advantages we have anywhere in the world: We are an ally-rich nation, and our adversaries-- such as Russia, North Korea, and Iran--and our potential adversaries--- such as China--are ally-poor. We are ally-rich. Countries trust us. Countries want to join alliances with the United States, and our adversaries and potential adversaries are ally-poor. That system of alliances has been built for over 70 years through the hard work of Democratic and Republicans Presidents, Secretaries of State and Defense, and U.S. Senators. It has been a joint collective effort. Here is something else that is important to know. Our adversaries and potential adversaries know that this is the most important strategic advantage we have over any other country, and that is why for years--for decades--countries such as Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea have tried to split up our alliances. We shouldn't let that happen. It is important to remember this as we continue to deal with these countries. I think this NATO summit sent a strong message that we are going to stand together for decades more to come. When it comes to alliances, this body, pursuant to the U.S. Constitution, plays a very important role. The alliances I have talked about--including, especially this week, NATO--came to the Senate for ratification. Again, it is important as we talk about national security, we talk about 2 percent, and we talk about burden sharing. Yes, we need that from our allies, but we also need to remember that our alliances go well beyond the checkbook--common values and shared sacrifice. Sometimes that is the most important issue to remember as we continue to deepen our alliances and expand them throughout the world, which is the best way to keep peace and prosperity, not just for us but for the entire world. ###
07.13.2018	07.13.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Governor Bill Sheffield WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor this week in recognition of Anchorage resident and former Alaska Governor Bill Sheffield, who recently celebrated his 90th birthday. The policies that Governor Sheffield undertook and the projects that were built during his administration have a huge impact on Alaska today. Governor Sheffield was honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s “Alaskan of the Week” series. Senator Sullivan Honoring Governor Bill Sheffield as Alaskan of the Week (click image or here to watch). TRIBUTE TO GOVERNOR BILL SHEFFIELD (U.S. Senate – July 12, 2018): Mr. President, it is Thursday afternoon, and the new pages here will hopefully see that this certainly is one of my favorite moments in the Senate, and I know it is the Presiding Officer who gets to see the ``Alaskan of the Week'' every week around this time. I guarantee the young men and women who are doing a great job as our pages are going to start to view this as their favorite time, too, because they get to hear about Alaska and great stories about Alaska. They get to hear about great and wonderful people in the great State of Alaska who are doing great things for their community, their State, and their country. We call that person our Alaskan of the week. From the onset, we have tried to focus, generally, on people who are unsung heroes in their communities--people who have worked diligently a lot of times without a lot of recognition. With my colleagues, I get to come and tell stories about what they have done for their community or State or even for their country. At other times, we recognize someone in our State who has made the headlines, someone whose contributions are well known through all parts of the State. We just do that because we want to reemphasize it, because it is important. Today we are going to recognize one of those people who is well known in Alaska but whom we think is worthy certainly of the title of Alaskan of the week because of all he has done. His name is Bill Sheffield. He was our State's Governor in 1982, and he has spent his adult life making Alaska a better place for all of us. Governor Sheffield's story in Alaska embodies what many of us love about our great State. It doesn't matter where you come from or your social status, in Alaska, if you have grit, tenacity, determination, and a servant's heart, nothing can hold you back. Governor Sheffield was born in 1928 in Spokane, Washington. When the Depression hit, his family had to grow and sell vegetables to survive. It was during this time that he saw firsthand how President Roosevelt's New Deal, passed by this body, helped people, including his father, who was struggling. The idea that government was there to help people stayed with him and turned him into a lifelong Democrat. He joined the Air Force and, after his release, joined Sears, Roebuck and Company. In 1952 he moved to the great State of Alaska to work for the company as it expanded throughout the State. He repaired televisions and appliances and took on sales roles, excelling both in repairs and sales. He did this all while suffering from a serious, difficult stutter, one he had carried with him throughout his childhood. He said that when he was a child, he simply couldn't or wouldn't talk. ``I had to point to pictures,'' he told one interviewer. But his stutter lent him tremendous empathy, and it also steeled his determination to work hard to overcome obstacles and succeed. And succeed he did. He got into the hotel business, eventually owning a chain of 19 hotels across Alaska, but he still wanted something more. He wanted to give back to his community. So, in 1982, as a long-shot politician, he ran for Governor. The long shot came in, and he won. He always understood, and still does, that infrastructure is the key to creating a path for economic growth in Alaska. We are a resource-rich but infrastructure-poor State. The policies that he undertook as Governor and the projects that were built during his administration--likely more infrastructure projects than any other Governor--still have a huge impact on our State today. Let me just mention a few of them. The largest zinc and lead mine literally in the world, the Red Dog mine in Northwest Alaska, was made possible by his hard work and that of countless other Alaskans. The Ketchikan Shipyard was built during the Sheffield administration. An aggressive road and construction program was undertaken throughout the State, particularly in the city of Anchorage. The Bradley Lake hydro project near Homer was built during his administration, along with several other hydro projects throughout Southeast Alaska. He traveled extensively throughout rural Alaska. He went to almost every single village in our State. We have over 200 that are not connected by roads, so that was hard to do. Almost every one was visited by our Governor. But his crowning achievement was the purchase of the Alaska Railroad. When he first became Governor, the Federal Government had owned the railroad and was threatening to shut it down, which would have been devastating to our State. There were no private buyers, so Governor Sheffield worked with the State legislature and the congressional delegation to buy the railroad from the Federal Government. Then they created a State-owned corporation designed to be operated like a private business, and that railroad, the Alaska Railroad, still serves as a critical transportation link for goods and people throughout Alaska. Since his time in office, Governor Sheffield has continued his ties to the railroad as CEO and chairman of the board. He has also continued to serve in other public service capacities, such as the port director in Anchorage, and he has contributed to numerous causes and served on many charitable boards, like the Alaska Community Foundation board, and has received countless awards and recognition for his public service. But what really makes Governor Sheffield so special to so many is that he is just a kind, warm person. He is always lending a hand to others. He is always there for many when he is needed. He does this without regard for political affiliation. His house is always full of Republicans, Democrats, and Libertarians. Last year, I was at a great event at his house, where he honored the Coast Guard Foundation. Many members, both current and past, from both sides of the political aisle--including from this body--have eaten wonderful dinners in his home, including my good friend Senator John McCain, who had dinner in Governor Sheffield's house with Senator Hillary Clinton. That is bipartisanship. When he opens his doors to his beautiful home, all are welcome. Governor Sheffield recently celebrated his 90th birthday with a party in Anchorage. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend, but I heard it was one for the ages. Hundreds of people showed up. People from all walks of life and all political affiliations were there, all of them sharing deep affection for one of our State's giants, a man with a huge heart, who has made life better for countless Alaskans. Governor Sheffield, from the Senate, happy 90th birthday. Thanks for your great service to our great State and all you have done. Congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
07.12.2018	07.12.18 Sullivan Announces Plan to Support Judge Brett Kavanaugh to Serve on U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today offered his support for Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve as the next Associate Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court. The endorsement was made following an hour-long meeting between Sullivan and Kavanaugh, which highlighted a number of national and Alaska-focused legal issues. “Today, I met with Judge Kavanaugh to discuss at length and great depth his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court and his viewpoint on a variety of national and Alaska-focused legal issues. The meeting was extremely constructive and an important opportunity for Judge Kavanaugh to reaffirm what I’ve known about him for some time. He is someone who will interpret the law and Constitution as written, he holds a healthy skepticism regarding the expansive power of federal agencies, he is a strong protector of the Second Amendment, and he has the values, temperament and humility I believe Alaskans will value on the Supreme Court. I also took the opportunity to familiarize Judge Kavanaugh on a number of critical Alaska-focused federal laws, such as ANILCA, ANCSA and the new ANWR law. I think Judge Kavanaugh meets the qualifications we should be looking for and I plan on supporting him as the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.” Senator Dan Sullivan offered the following message to Alaskans on Judge Brett Kavanaugh (click image or here to watch). Judge Brett Kavanaugh and Senator Dan Sullivan during today’s meeting. Senator Sullivan speaking to reporters following his hour-long meeting with Judge Kavanaugh (click image or here to watch). Following today’s meeting, Senator Sullivan spoke at length with reporters. A transcript of that discussion can be found below: When the American Bar Association is looking at judges, they look at integrity, they look at professional competence, and they look at judicial temperament. Those are kind of the three categories by which they judge judges. So I’ve had the privilege of knowing Judge Kavanaugh for a number of years – we worked in the Bush Administration together – and I can tell you on all three of those areas [integrity, professional competence, and judicial temperament], which is what I think should be the way in which Senators are viewing him, he scores very, very, very high. So we had a good discussion on a whole host of issues in there. One of the things that is really important to Alaskans, my constituents, is an area where he’s been a leader and that is with regard to a healthy skepticism with regard to the powers of federal agencies when they don’t have statutory authority to take action. This is a really big issue. It sounds technical, it’s a huge issue in Alaska – similar to the Second Amendment. I’ve actually been reading a lot of his cases. I followed his career because I’ve known him as I mentioned. So I’ve been reading his cases previously, but I actually read his dissent in the Heller case – that’s the Second Amendment case, a very important case. Reread that, we had a long discussion about that today, but that’s also a really important issue in Alaska. Strong views with regard to the Second amendment and he’s been a leader on that, there’s no doubt about it. And then we talked about Alaska specific federal laws. We’re a state where there’s actually a lot of legislation that comes out of this body that is specifically focused on Alaska. Now, of course, you don’t expect a D.C. Circuit judge to know a lot about those laws – most of that goes through the 9th Circuit – but I just wanted to highlight that to him as – hey, we are a state where this body writes huge laws, like that we call ANILCA, and then federal agencies try to push the limits. And that’s not appropriate in my view, so I gave him a heads up on that. But I think it was a very constructive meeting. Again, I think he meets all the qualifications of what we as a Senate should be looking for in terms of the confirmation process and I plan on supporting Judge Kavanaugh as the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. ###
07.11.2018	07.11.18 Sullivan Named to National Defense Authorization Act Conference Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was appointed to serve on the conference committee tasked with producing a final FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The Senate affirmed this appointment of conferees by a vote of 97-2. “Today’s conference committee vote moves us one step closer to passing the National Defense Authorization Act, a powerful piece of legislation that supports our military men and women and the vital missions they serve,” said Senator Sullivan. “I’m honored to once again continue this bipartisan push towards final passage as a member of the NDAA conference committee, where I will continue to highlight Alaska’s strategic importance to the defense of our nation and prioritize a number of Alaska, Arctic and Indo-pacific priorities I fought for in this year’s Senate bill.” For information on the Senate-passed NDAA, click here. ###
07.10.2018	07.10.18 Sullivan Votes to Advance VA Secretary Nominee Out of Committee WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee voted to advance Robert Wilkie, nominee to become the next Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), out of committee. “Today I was pleased to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in voting to advance Mr. Wilkie out of the VA Committee,” said Senator Sullivan. “During his confirmation process, I explained to Mr. Wilkie the unique challenges that our 77,000 Alaskan veterans face – and invited him to Alaska so that he can see and hear from our veterans firsthand. As the VA MISSION Act is rolled-out, I'll work with Mr. Wilkie to ensure that Alaska's priorities are upheld and successfully implemented. He understands what it takes to faithfully serve our veterans and I hope that the Senate will now move to swiftly confirm him to this important position to our nation.” ###
07.10.2018	07.10.18 Sullivan Secures Important Provisions for Alaska Fisherman and Farmers In Farm Bill WASHINGTON, DC— Before the July 4th holiday, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined 85 of his colleagues in support of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, commonly referred to as the Farm Bill, which contained important provisions for Alaska. The bill now heads to conference committee with the U.S. House of Representatives. The Farm Bill supports America’s farmers and ranchers, reauthorizes and improves farm, forestry, and conservation programs, reauthorizes programs and critical funding for water and sewer projects in rural Alaska, expands broadband deployment, and improves food assistance programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). It also provides funding for addiction treatment for rural areas to help with the opioid crisis. As part of the 2018 Farm Bill, the Senate also adopted an amendment authored by Senator Sullivan that requires only fish caught in U.S. waters to be served in National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs. This has the potential to greatly expand markets for Alaska seafood. “This bill provides farmers in Alaska the certainty that they need to be successful, and provides funding for water in sewer programs across our state,” said Senator Sullivan. “Further, the amendment that I introduced, requiring American-caught seafood to be served in school meal programs, will greatly enhance the quality of food served to our kids and expand markets for our fisherman. The Farm Bill is a win for our farmers, fisherman, our rural communities, and our children.” Provisions of Alaskan Importance Championed by Senator Sullivan Senator Sullivan’s amendment requires that the Secretary of Agriculture fully enforce Buy American requirements in National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs. Currently, much of the fish served in American schools is caught in Russia, processed in China, and shipped to America to be served in our American schools. Reauthorization of the Specialty Crop Block Grant program which supports Alaskan fruit, vegetable, peony, horticulture and nursery crops with past recipients including the Alaskan farmer’s market. Reauthorization of the Market Access Program, which partners with U.S. agricultural trade associations, cooperatives, state regional trade groups and small businesses to share the costs of overseas marketing and promotional activities that help build commercial export markets for U.S. agricultural products and commodities. This program is important to our marketing Alaskan fish in the United States and across the globe. Reauthorization of the Rural Alaska Village Grant program, which provides vital funding to support water and sewer services in rural communities in Alaska. Many of Alaska’s Native rural communities lack basic water and sanitation services. Approximately 20% of Alaska Native homes in rural Alaska are not served by these basic services including 30 communities with no water or sanitation services at all. Reauthorization of the Education Grants to Alaska Native Serving Institutions and Native Hawaiian Serving Institutions. Reauthorization of the Rural Water and Wastewater Circuit Rider Program, the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program, and the Rural Water and Wastewater Technical Assistance and Training Programs Reauthorization and improvement of the Federal Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR), which provides monthly food boxes to specific rural Alaskan communities. The bill also includes a provision similar to the Nourishing Our Golden Years Act, cosponsored by Sen. Sullivan, that streamlines and simplifies the administrative burden for the program providing a monthly food box for low-income seniors. ###
07.09.2018	07.09.18 Sullivan Statement on Nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after President Trump announced the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court: “I’ve had the pleasure of knowing Judge Brett Kavanaugh for some time – dating back to when we worked together in the Bush administration. He is very well regarded as a judge on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals – the second most important court in the country. In that role he is known for applying the law and Constitution as written, upholding our Second Amendment rights, and having a healthy skepticism concerning the powers of federal administrative agencies. In the coming weeks, I look forward to reviewing in further depth Judge Kavanaugh’s extensive record as a D.C. Circuit judge, and discussing these and other important issues with him. I expect the upcoming Senate confirmation process to be both rigorous and fair, one deserving of a Supreme Court nominee.” ###
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Sullivan Situation Report (SITREP) -- June 27, 2018 What to Watch – FARM Bill: This week, the Senate focuses its efforts on the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, also known as the Farm Bill – a multi-year law that governs an array of agricultural and food/ nutrition programs. Though Senator Sullivan is not a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, he continues to engage on a number of important issues as the legislation moves forward in the Senate. Stay tuned for more. Retirement of Supreme Court Justice Kennedy: As many have seen by now, Supreme Court Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy announced today that he will retire effective July 31, 2018, giving President Trump the opportunity to appoint his second judge to the high court. Senator Sullivan offered the following statement on Justice Kennedy’s retirement: “I would like to thank Justice Kennedy for his years of service to our nation and for his unwavering commitment to civility. I wish him and his family the very best in their future endeavors. Going forward, the President has the opportunity to nominate a justice who believes in textualism as it relates to interpreting the Constitution and statutes, and who understands the importance of federalism and the separation of powers as critical components of safeguarding liberty in our Constitutional order. I look forward to a rigorous nomination process in the Senate and I am hopeful that we can use the now-cancelled August recess to hold hearings to nominate our next Supreme Court Justice.” Although some have already begun echoing claims by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer regarding process and President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland, the Washington Post was quick to offer this response: Washington Post: Democrats’ bogus argument about what the GOP said about Supreme Court nominees in an election year Sullivan Hosts Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis in Alaska: Secretary of Defense James Mattis and Alaska Senator Dan Sullivan walk the flight line at Eielson Air Force Base. Earlier this week, Senator Sullivan hosted Secretary Mattis for a whirlwind tour of Alaska-based military missions, assets and world class training areas. The takeaways were many and Secretary Mattis gave Alaska the credit it deserves, stating at the conclusion of a joint press conference: “Senator, your airbases, your radars, the training of your soldiers in the most difficult climates in the world -- means they're ready for anything -- the interceptors we have up here, I would just tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that, Alaska, in many ways, is the absolute center of the defense of our country, and for the Indo-Pacific, and certainly, over the polar ice cap." A video recapping Secretary Mattis’ 24-hour trip to Alaska is quickly making its way around social media – we encourage you to take a look. Recap Video: Sullivan Hosts Defense Secretary Mattis in Alaska (click image or here to watch). Getting Things Done: A Record of Accomplishment The Republican-led Senate continues its work to pass legislation that makes critical investments in our nation’s priorities. Last week, the Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), important legislation that will provide our troops with the resources, equipment, and training they need and deserve. The NDAA is the latest in a long list of accomplishments that include: reforming our tax code, providing relief from burdensome Dodd-Frank red tape, helping to reform the way our veterans receive care, providing terminally ill patients with access to potentially life-saving treatments, enacting legislation to help combat human trafficking, and confirming judges at a record pace. Accomplishments of the 115th Congress (click image or here to watch). Recap from Washington, DC: Last Friday, Senator Sullivan filmed his latest edition of This Week in Washington to discuss some of the issues of the week, including recent news that John Sturgeon will once again bring his case before the Supreme Court, the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act, and developments regarding trade and immigration. This Week in Washington (June 22, 2018): Recap from Senator Sullivan (click image or here to watch). Alaskan of the Week: Greg Brown U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor last week to recognize recently retired teacher Greg Brown as our Alaskan of the Week. Mr. Brown is a legend among his former students at A.J. Dimond High School in Anchorage, where for 25 years he taught European and U.S. history, art history, philosophy, and student government. He is such a revered teacher that his former students raised $16,500 for him to travel the world in his retirement. Senator Sullivan honoring Greg Brown as Alaskan of the Week (click image or here to watch. A Look Back in Photos: Senator Sullivan and Bill Gates met earlier today to discuss U.S. global leadership, including areas of development and health. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, speaks during a joint press conference with U.S. Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis (Click image or here to watch). Alaska Senator Dan Sullivan, Leslie Hadukavich, Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis, U.S. Air Force Lt. Gen. Ken Wilsbach, the 11th Air Force commander, Col. David Mineau, the 354th Fighter Wing Fighter Wing commander, and Chief Master Sgt. Gene Kapuchuck, the 354th FW interim command chief, pose for a photo June 25, 2018 at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska. Mattis stopped in Alaska at the invitation of Senator Sullivan before continuing a tour of the Indo-Pacific Region. Senator Sullivan meeting with a group of Alaska History Day Students during their visit to Washington, D.C. Note: The Sullivan Situation Report (SITREP) is a broad-based effort to share information and congressional updates with Alaskans. This weekly (sometimes biweekly) gathering of information is a place for conversation, news, missed items, and insight into the week before and the days ahead. This is a new endeavor, one that will certainly change and grow over time, but something Senator Sullivan’s communications team is excited to develop with your feedback. This email is meant to be shared. If you know someone who would like to be added to the Sullivan SITREP distribution list, please email matt_shuckerow@sullivan.senate.gov
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Sullivan Statement on Justice Kennedy’s Retirement from Supreme Court WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement after Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement effective July 31, 2018: “I would like to thank Justice Kennedy for his years of service to our nation and for his unwavering commitment to civility. I wish him and his family the very best in their future endeavors. Going forward, the President has the opportunity to nominate a justice who believes in textualism as it relates to interpreting the Constitution and statutes, and who understands the importance of federalism and the separation of powers as critical components of safeguarding liberty in our Constitutional order. I look forward to a rigorous nomination process in the Senate and I am hopeful that we can use the now-cancelled August recess to hold hearings to nominate our next Supreme Court Justice.” ###
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Senate Committee to Hold Field Hearing in Alaska on Small Business Administration Federal Contracting Programs Washington, DC – The Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, chaired by Senator Jim Risch (R-ID), will hold an oversight hearing in Anchorage, AK on Friday, June 29, 2018 at 2:00PM (AKST) titled, “Opportunities and Challenges with the Small Business Administration’s Federal Contracting Programs.” The field hearing – which comes at the request of Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) – works to provide stakeholders and the Small Business Administration (SBA) a public opportunity to highlight the positive aspects, impacts, and areas for improvement of the various small business contracting programs administered by the SBA. WHAT: Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship will hold an oversight hearing, “Opportunities and Challenges with the Small Business Administration’s Federal Contracting Programs.” WHO: Senator Jim Risch (R-ID), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) Robb Wong, Associate Administrator, Office of Government Contracting and Business Development, U.S. Small Business Administration Alaskan Witnesses WHEN: Friday, June 29, 2018 at 2:00 PM (AKST) WHERE: Assembly Chambers, Z.J. Loussac Public Library 3600 Denali Street – Anchorage, AK 99503 WITNESSES: PANEL 1: Mr. Robb Wong Associate Administrator Office of Government Contracting and Business Development U.S. Small Business Administration PANEL 2: Ms. Carrie Jokiel President ChemTrack Alaska, Inc Mr. Gabe Kompkoff Chief Executive Officer Chugach Alaska Corporation Mr. Carl Marrs Chief Executive Officer Old Harbor Native Corporation Mr. Richard Peterson President Central Council Tlingit Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska Mr. Rolondo Miranda President Miranda Electric, Inc. ###
06.26.2018	06.26.18 ICYMI: Press Conference by Secretary Mattis and Sen. Sullivan in Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Secretary of Defense James Mattis held a press conference at Eielson AFB to discuss their 24-hour tour of Alaska-based military assets and missions, including a visit to Ft. Greely Alaska – home to the 49th Missile Defense Battalion. Below is a transcript of that press conference. Click here to watch Senator Sullivan and Secretary Mattis’ press conference. Press Conference by Secretary Mattis and Sen. Sullivan in Alaska Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis; Sen. Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska https://www.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript-View/Article/1560690/press-conference-by-secretary-mattis-and-sen-sullivan-in-alaska/ SENATOR DAN SULLIVAN: I think everybody here knows, we have an outstanding secretary of defense. Most importantly, very well respected by allies, members of Congress, Democrats, Republicans, but I would say, most importantly and saw again today, is by the troops. The troops, you know, our military really, really respects the secretary, and it's just great to have you here, sir. So thanks very much for coming. Just a -- just a few words for opening, you know. I had the opportunity to -- well, I -- I worked with the secretary quite a lot, being on the Armed Services Committee, but the Alaskans in the room know that I frequently talk about, how this -- our state constitutes three pillars of America's military might. We just literally saw, that we're the cornerstone of missile defense, being at Fort Greely. We are the hub air combat power for the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic, and you're seeing it right here at Eielson, with 54 F-35s coming in the next couple of years, with two squadrons of F-22s down at JBER. The state will have over a hundred combat coded, fifth generation fighters. Pretty sure there's no place in the world that will have kind of -- and that's the fighter, fifth gen capability. In terms of Air Force power, there's a whole bunch of other assets, and then, of course, we're a platform for expeditionary forces. 4-25, which just got back from Afghanistan, the first striker we gave, which is right down the road here, given our strategic location and air lift, and we have the best training in the world, and I think the secretary saw it at JPARC, and great communities. There's no place in America that supports our military, like, we do, in Alaska. And when you look at Secretary Mattis' national defense strategy, which is quite an impressive document, which focuses a lot of the Indo-Pacific as the priority theater and missile defense. And I think it's safe to say, that, with that new strategy, a very, very well supported strategy in the Congress, Alaska plays a critical role here. And then, finally, we're rebuilding our military, rebuilding our military after defense cuts and readiness declines that we saw for the last several years. There's a bipartisan focus on rebuilding the military, and we have very significant bipartisan budgets, again, thanks to the leadership of Secretary Mattis, coming to Congress, testifying on how important that is. And you're seeing it here. In Alaska, in the last three and half years, we've had close to $1.4 billion dollars in military construction. If you look right outside, you're seeing it, and that is to build up these three pillars that I talked about, and it's happening, and it's happening in large part because of the leadership, of Secretary Mattis. So, again, sir, it's an honor for you to be here. I have been pressing him, you know. I did talk about how we have more vets per capita than any place in the country. In large parts, because people serve in the military, they come here, they see a gorgeous day like this, they have great training, the communities love them, and when they retire, when they get out, they come back here. So, I have been pressing the secretary, and once he finally hangs up his combat boots, that he should actually retire in Alaska, but we'll see. I'm not sure I've fully convinced him yet, but I think this trip had a decent start. So, Mr. Secretary, I'll turn it over to you`. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE JAMES N. MATTIS: Thank you, Senator Sullivan. It's been a delight to be up here for, I guess, it's only 24 hours, and I wish I could spend about 24 days on the tour, of the Fort Greely missile field that we just returned from, just a few minutes ago, where -- and that is, as you know, a critical component in the American deterrent effort against the use of -- of missiles, against our country's several hundred young soldiers, National Guardsmen up there, who defend 300 million Americans. And they are very, very much aware of their job and the responsibilities they carry. It's a very sobering reminder, for our adversaries, that we are able to defend ourselves, and so, it was a real good trip for the senator. And I had to go up there and see these people, going through their drills and their constant state of readiness, but it's also a reminder, if we needed one, of Alaska's critical role in our nation's defense. And geography matters, as we say, in the military. Geography matters, and even if something was called Seward's Folly, years ago, when he bought it, I think we're all so proud of Alaska now and the key role it plays. In the defense of our country, we would call it anything but a folly, today, where it is probably the gateway to the Pacific for us, in many, many ways. It's one of five states that's got a Pacific coastline, and I actually come from one of those states, myself, so it's a good to have a senator who takes such a possession of the issues that we have to deal with out in the Pacific, who lead by example. I knew his senator when he was number 100 on the list of seniority in the U.S. senate, and he is not the -- the number 100 anymore, but I would also tell you that, by his study of the issues and his leadership of the legislation, in many, many ways, he has brought the Congress in support of the Department of Defense in ways that we did not enjoy, in years past. And we're grateful for that sort of support, Senator, your airbases, your radars, the training of your soldiers in the most difficult climates, in the world, means they're ready for anything. The interceptors we have up here, I would just tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that, Alaska, in many ways, is the absolute center of the defense, of our country, and for the Indo-Pacific, and certainly, over the polar ice cap. And appreciate the leadership, but also, your willingness to go the extra mile, senator. The senator and I we're out in Singapore here, I think, less than a month ago, out there. Now, it's one thing for me to show up at a defense seminar, a defense meeting, probably the most important one for the Pacific, but when senators and congressman show up, that lends an authority that we would, otherwise, lack in terms of a priority that we, Americans, place on the Indo-Pacific region. It's also a reminder of the article, of the Constitution, that requires the Senate to advice and consent on a host of issues and to have someone who actually goes out and meets our allies, talks with our potential adversaries, and tries to find a way to keep an ocean named for peace a peaceful domain. At the same time, augmenting the nation's defense, it's economic might. There's a host of reasons why Alaska remains absolutely on the frontline of our -- of protecting our nation. So, I'd like to stop there, we can take a couple questions, and a few of us have got to get on the airplane, and we're going to head out of here. And the senator's got to go back to work as well. SEN. SULLIVAN: Yes, sir. All right, well listen, I think we're going to start with -- I know we have some national press. Hopefully you guys got a good dinner last night and got off base, but I think we're going to start with our local. Is Tim here, for --- yes, Tim. Q: Thanks, sir, good to meet you (inaudible). SEC. MATTIS: Thank you. Q: So, as you know, the -- in recent years, temperature been increasing, sea ice has been retreating. It's a blue ocean north of here. As you know, we've got five handfuls of icebreakers, maybe coming up here, in the next years, as I understand it. Do we need more and do we need to support facilities? Do we need a deep draft, a deep water port, in Nome out there on the Bering Sea Coast? SEC. MATTIS: I think when we look at our relationship to the Arctic, you've got a number of nations in the Arctic Council, as you know. Many of those are NATO nations -- Denmark, Norway for example, Canada -- and I think what we have to look at, it’s how do we work together? And certainly America has got to up its game in the Arctic. There's no doubt about that. It's cited as an area of concern with our National Security Strategy, as it looks more broadly, and then as the National Defense Strategy as it looks more specifically on how we deal with certain other countries in the world. And so part of it will certainly see an increased Coast Guard presence, I believe, because in fact we have waterways that are open today that were not open five years ago, 20 years ago, 30 years ago. So the reality is that we're going to have to deal with the developing Arctic, and it is developing. It's also going to open not just to transport, but also to energy exploration. So in a broad term I would just say you're exactly right; we're going to have to increase along the lines you're outlining. SEN. SULLIVAN: And, Tim, just to add to that, you know, I think one good news piece on that is that the Congress is starting to recognize this more strategically, not just me and Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young, but -- but many members, bipartisan. So I'll just give you a couple of examples. In 2015 in the National Defense Authorization Act, we've got a provision in there for an Arctic strategy, which the secretary signed off on. It's actually a pretty serious document. It's an unclassified version. Last year and this year we got provisions for six new icebreakers, three heavies, three mediums. Last year that provision got -- that was in the Senate and the NDAA, was a provision of mine, got stripped out in conference. I got it back in this year. So we voted on the NDAA just a week ago. So that's in there again. We're going to fight for it like crazy in the conference this year to keep it in. And two years ago we did get a provision in there, again, in the law for the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security to look at the need and characteristics of what we determined was called a strategic Arctic port for the infrastructure that could host this. So that's in the law. The Pentagon is actually working on that right now. So these are all things that Democrats and Republicans in the Congress have supported. So I agree with the secretary; I think we're behind, but I think we're finally starting to catch up, and it's the executive branch and the Congress, and I think that's the good news piece on that. Erin, you want to go next? Q: Yes, Erin Greenberg with (inaudible). So last month you wrote to Congress how some of the department's concern about F-35s, (inaudible) the proper mix with F-35s and F-18s. And I was wondering how that could possibly change the plans for getting some of those to Eielson and (inaudible)? SEC. MATTIS: Yes, what we're looking at there is the mix of airplanes. For example, this -- the F-35 going to be used the Air Force, the Navy, the Marines, plus a host of allies. Inside the Department of Defense, we're looking for what is the mix, for example, that we need on aircraft carrier decks, and we're looking at sustainment costs. There's a full-court press. We've got people whose only job is focused on this airplane and its incorporation into our force. So the plane is coming. We want to make certain it comes with the proper support facilities, the proper training facilities, all of the things that keep an airplane flying. It's not just a matter of buying it. So that's really what that was about, the mix of the aircraft for the various services, and the sustainment of the aircraft. Notice we're talking about how we're going to incorporate it; we're not talking about if it's coming -- it's coming. SEN. SULLIVAN: Sarah? Q: Hi. With the increasing military presence in Alaska and other things, what is one area where you still see lacking? SEC. MATTIS: Still see? Q: see lacking? SEN. SULLIVAN: Still see lacking. SEC. MATTIS: Yes. Let me think. You know there are some areas -- I'm not going to completely answer your question, because there are some things I don't want our adversaries to know. But I would tell you when you look at the three legs that the senator described, on that three-legged stool, if we keep a balanced force along those lines, if we adapt to the changing situation we face in the Arctic, I think we're in a very good position to address whatever happens. And there may be times we have to put more on one leg than another, or diplomats are successful on one thing so we can shorten what we're doing on one, and increase the other to address changing sea ice and this sort of thing. But I think right now as I look at it, it's a pretty -- pretty balanced program, and thanks to the leadership of the administration of the Senate Armed Services Committee, House Armed Services Committee, and then more broadly as the senator said, Congress as a whole, bipartisan. I think we have probably what we need right now, but there's no room for complacency is really what your question reminds us of, and we'll stay alert to the changing situation and the threats against the United States. SEN. SULLIVAN: Sir, I would just say on that, you know, I mentioned we're a platform for expeditionary forces and great training. There is -- and I see it all of the time, and I know the secretary does, increasing interest from some of the other services to get up here, to train more, because this is great training. It's very rugged. It looks a little bit like Korea, you know, cold and mountainous. And to be able to have forces up here who can get to places on a moment's notice and still do great training. So I know for a fact there's a lot of services that have an interest in doing more up here. The Marines this last winter had several hundred Marines up here doing some serious, serious training, and I think they see this as a potential expeditionary platform for, you know, in the future so we're going to keep trying to build on those three pillars that I mentioned, because I think certainly they help our great state, but they're really important for the national security of the country, and it's the secretary's Indo-Asia Pacific strategy, which is highlighted in the new National Defense Strategy for the United States that he wrote. You look at the kind of thrust of that, and I think Alaska is front and center in terms of being able to help implement and execute that military strategy. Yes, Phil? Q: Secretary, on missile defense, since the Singapore summit there's been a lot of happy talk that the threat may have diminished, but the North Korean missile threat is still there. They've launched -- they have two new types of ICBMs. Based on your visit to Fort Greely, how do you see the current North Korean missile threat, and are you confident that our missile defenses can counter. SEC. MATTIS: Well, I've been to Fort Greely, because I want to see the -- the young soldiers who are absolutely responsible for maintaining the 24/7 watch over the missile defense capability. But I would tell you that right now that I might with Secretary Pompeo, and National Security Adviser Bolton on Friday. It is full support for the diplomats who are trying to solve this issue. At the same time, that capability still exists today, so clearly we take that very, very seriously. But our hopes are riding with the diplomats, so we're going to see progress in the days and weeks ahead. Q: Are you confident that the missile defense systems would work if we needed them? SEC. MATTIS: I'm absolutely confident the missile defense system will work. SEN. SULLIVAN: And just -- this is another area where, again, with the administration and the Congress working together we're building it up -- I mean, we're not -- it's not static. Right now we're building another field at Fort Greely as we speak for 20 more silos of 20 more missiles. And in the current NDAA that passed last Monday, there was a whole new section on missile defense that looked -- had space-based sensors. It was, again, bipartisan approval on that to integrate our THAAD, our Aegis and our homeland system back here. So nobody's stopping. The threat's increasing the administration and the Congress are working together to increase it, and a lot of it is taking place here in Alaska. Phil? Q: Let me just ask though about the immigration issue. We've heard that maybe one of them might only house unaccompanied children. Is that correct? SEC. MATTIS: Yes, the two bases, that is confirmed now, that those will be the two bases, Goodfellow Air Force Base and Fort Bliss, but I cannot confirm the specifics on how they'll be used. We'll provide whatever support the Department of Homeland Security needs in order to house the people that they have under their custody. So we'll work that out week by week. The numbers obviously are dynamic, so we'll have to stay flexible in our logistics support for the Department of Homeland Security. Q: Do you think it's appropriate role for the military, given that these are -- you know, if they were unaccompanied children why is a military base the right place for them. SEC. MATTIS: Throughout history the U.S. military has provided, whether it be for -- as I mentioned yesterday on the airplane, Phil, whether it be for Vietnamese boat people, who were escaping tyranny at that point. It's been used for Americans who have been thrown out of their homes by natural disasters. We've provided logistical support. And we're not going to get into the political aspect. Providing housing, shelter for those who need it, is a legitimate governmental function. This one I recognize the political aspects of it, but for us it's a logistics support effort. SEN. SULLIVAN: I think we've got time for one more. Go ahead, Tim. Q: This is a political question I realize. If this deal with North Korea bears fruit, do you see any point in the future where there'll be less of a need to continue to expand the missile defense base at Greely, because of that major adversary, which as I understand it, is one of the main concerns and why that is (inaudible). At some point though? SEC. MATTIS: It's a great question, Tim, and if I had a crystal ball I could better answer it, because even if one threat goes away -- and let's all with the diplomats well who are working this now -- even if one threat goes away, we have to stay alert to other things in the world that could constitute a threat. So I think geography -- as I mentioned earlier, geography is geography. You cannot replace. You can't wish it away. Alaska sits actually on a key location from a strategic point of view. And this is physics at this point. So no, at this time, I can't imagine that, but it's an ocean named for peace that washes up against your shores of your state. Let's hope someday we won't have to do this sort of thing. For right now though, our job is to make sure that our diplomats speak from a position of strength, and that's what we're focused on. SEN. SULLIVAN: Thank you, everybody. And, Mr. Secretary, thanks again. Godspeed on the rest of your travels, we look forward to you coming back. ###
06.25.2018	06.25.18 Sullivan Hosts Secretary of Defense Mattis in Alaska Visit Ft. Greely, Eielson Air Force Base EIELSON AIR FORCE BASE, AK – At the invitation of U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Secretary of Defense James Mattis traveled to see firsthand a number of Alaska-based military assets and missions, including air combat capabilities at Eielson Air Force Base and America’s missile defense infrastructure at Ft. Greely. “I am honored that Secretary Mattis accepted this important invitation to visit Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today, Secretary Mattis saw firsthand that Alaska is the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense and hub of combat air power. From the 40 current Ground Based Missile Interceptors plus the new missile field being constructed at Ft. Greely, to the ongoing Red Flag exercises at Eielson – Alaska’s military might was on full display. I believe this was an extremely valuable visit, one that allowed Secretary Mattis to gain a more robust understanding of how the geostrategic location of our military in Alaska, combined with the best trained soldiers and airmen, helps defend our country against in the Asia-Pacific, the Arctic, Europe, and the rest of the world.” Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis answers a question during a press conference June 25, 2018, at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska. Mattis and Alaska Senator Dan Sullivan held a press conference after a visit to Fort Greely, Alaska (Click image or here to watch) (U.S. Air Force photo by Airman 1st Class Eric M. Fisher) Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, speaks during a joint press conference with U.S. Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis (Click image or here to watch). (DoD photo by Army Sgt. Amber I. Smith) Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis speaks with Alaska Senator Dan Sullivan on June 25, 2018 on the Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, flight line. Mattis and Sullivan held a joint press conference after a visit to Fort Greely, Alaska. (U.S. Air Force photo by Airman 1st Class Eric M. Fisher) Background: Secretary Mattis’ visit to Alaska – his first as the Secretary of Defense – comes following a request by Senator Sullivan in January 2017 during the Senate confirmation process. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Sullivan has been a strong advocate and leader on the need to bolster America’s missile defense. In this year’s FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), he worked to included eight missile defense provisions including the first-time requirement to both develop and deploy a layer of space-based sensors. In last year’s NDAA, Senator Sullivan worked to authorize 20 additional GBMI’s (brand new missile field) at Ft. Greely, which was fully funded by Congress and signed into law by President Trump in December 2017. Working alongside Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young, Senator Sullivan over the past three-plus years has been able to authorize and secure nearly $1.3 billion in military construction funding for Alaska. FOR MEDIA: Immediately after returning from Ft. Greely, AK aboard three U.S. Army UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters, Secretary Mattis and Senator Sullivan held a brief media availability to discuss their trip to Alaska. To watch, CLICK HERE. To download, CLICK HERE. For pictures of Secretary Mattis’s visit to Alaska with Senator Sullivan, CLICK HERE. For B-Roll footage of Secretary Mattis’ visit to Alaska, CLICK HERE. ###
06.22.2018	06.22.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Greg Brown WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor this week in recognition of recently retired teacher Greg Brown. Mr. Brown is a legend among his former students at A.J. Dimond High School in Anchorage, where for 25 years he taught European and U.S. history, art history, philosophy, and student government. He is such a revered teacher that his former students raised $16,500 for him to travel the world in his retirement. Mr. Brown was honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s “Alaskan of the Week” series. Sullivan Honoring Greg Brown as Alaskan of the Week (Click image or here to watch, click here to download). TRIBUTE TO GREG BROWN (U.S. Senate – June 21, 2018): Madam President, it is Thursday, and it is one of the best times of the week for me. I know the Parliamentarians and others who work in the Senate know, and now the pages are going to learn this, too, because it is the time every week when I get to talk about what I call the Alaskan of the Week. I am referring to someone who has made a difference in my State, someone who is doing a great job, and someone who is oftentimes an unsung hero and doesn't get a lot of attention but deserves it. That is what I do here. As I like to say, Alaska is a very beautiful State. I think it is the most beautiful State in the country, probably the most beautiful place in the world. Now summer has arrived, and the Sun hardly ever sets. The fish are running. The air is drenched in the energy of summer, so now is the time to visit. Everybody who is watching or watching on TV, you have to come visit. The Presiding Officer came a couple summers ago. We had a great time. Her father was out there during World War II, which was a great honor. So you will have the trip of a lifetime. By the way, you will also have the best food in the world. Interestingly enough, in the Senate on Thursdays, one Senator typically hosts a lunch. Today, I am hosting. I think my colleagues will like this. You can almost smell the aroma. Right now, we are making it in the kitchen here--salmon, halibut, reindeer sausage. We are all going to be treated to that in a little bit. What is truly amazing about my State is the people who call it home--smart, creative, energetic, caring people, folks helping each other. Today, I want to talk about our Alaskan of the Week, Mr. Greg Brown. He comes at the suggestion of quite a few members of my staff, who call him Mr. Brown. The lobbying campaign in my office for Mr. Brown to be the Alaskan of the Week has been intense. Mr. Brown, as he is known far and wide among those who went to Anchorage's Dimond High School, is a legend among his former students at Dimond, where for 25 years he taught European and U.S. history, art history, philosophy, and student government. Many of us are fortunate enough to have had that teacher or person--usually, it is a teacher--who really changed our lives and showed us the pure joy of learning; as my director of constituent relations, Rachel Bylsma, put it, that person ``that made history come alive,'' that person who made an ``indelible impact'' on someone's life or many lives. For Rachel, Andrew--one of my interns, who is here with me on the floor--and five members of my staff in DC and back home in Alaska, that person is Mr. Brown. So let's talk a little bit about Mr. Brown. Originally from Texas, when he was 15 years old, his family moved to Alaska when his father, who was in the oil business, got transferred to Alaska. A lot of Texans up in Alaska fall in love with it, as he did. He moved back to Texas as a teenager, but Alaska stilled beckoned, and it was never really out of his mind, so in 1989, when his father moved back again, he went back--now with a master's degree and a few years of teaching--and he never left. He was a substitute teacher for a while and in 1993 got a full-time position at Dimond High, where he has stayed, learned, taught, and where he has inspired thousands of students--think about it: 25 years. What makes a good teacher? According to Mr. Brown, it is vital that you, the teacher, fall in love with the subject and also, just as importantly, that you listen sympathetically, and you should know how to reach your students. Sometimes that is through books, Mr. Brown said, and sometimes the most important thing you can do is just play a game of chess with a student. I think that is what Andrew and Mr. Brown did. According to his students, Mr. Brown did these kinds of things. Mr. Brown was a demanding and exacting teacher. The papers they wrote for him were graded hard--graduate school-quality. He demanded excellence, which is another great attribute of a teacher. Because of his passion for the subjects he taught and the way he treated the students--he treated them like adults who were ready to learn and deliver--he made a huge impact. And learn they did. They read the classics--John Locke, Thomas Hobbes, Socrates, Plato, Machiavelli, Marx. Martin Luther, Patrick Henry, Thomas Paine, and on and on. They learned about the profound impact the Reformation had on Europe. They learned about the ramifications of governmental authority. They learned about how art can be a language that reflects the present. They learned about how alliances are formed, how leaders are born, and how the clashing of events can lead to devastating wars and world-altering peace treaties. They learned about the roots of all different forms of government. They learned to love--or at least appreciate and understand--our own government and the importance of institutions like the U.S. Senate. This year was Mr. Brown's last year as a teacher. He is, unfortunately, retiring. He bought a plot of land in Willow, AK, the part of the Alaska we call the Mat-Su Valley. He is going to garden, he is going to fish, he is going to read, and he is going to travel, but he is still going to be with us, and he can do that in part because of a gift he received from his students at his retirement party. This is quite unusual. This party, which was thrown for him by his students at his retirement, was quite amazing. Hundreds of his past students showed up to pay tribute to Mr. Brown. Some of them gave speeches. Many of them cried. At the end, they handed him a picture that one of his students painted. It was a reinterpretation of the School of Athens by the 16th-century artist Raphael, but it substituted Mr. Brown for Plato in that very famous painting. Then something really amazing happened at that party. The students also handed Mr. Brown a voucher. They had individually raised $16,500 for him to travel the world. Think about that. Motivated and inspired students, over 25 years, came together, threw a party, and raised money for their beloved teacher just to show him their deep admiration and abiding appreciation. That is very special for a special teacher. What was his reaction to the gift? Mr. Brown said: I wanted to go somewhere and gently weep. My students have always given me more than I have given them. Now, Mr. Brown, I am not sure that is true. You have given so much. In fact, at the party, one of my staffers--I already mentioned Rachel--in her speech about Mr. Brown said, ``Each student you taught ..... carries a piece of the precious gift you gave, learning the contours of history and the trends that have defined the course of humankind.'' Powerful stuff. So, Mr. Brown, thank you for all you have done for our young people, for our State--really, for the country--producing great Alaskans with a sense of civic duty and history. Thank you for being such a great teacher--and we have so many in our great State--and thank you, on your retirement, for being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Alaska Delegation Welcomes $56 Million in Disaster Relief for Alaska Fisheries Compensation, Recovery, and Relief for Fishermen and Stakeholders WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, (all R-Alaska), today welcomed a funding allocation announcement by the Secretary of Commerce for states and territories affected by recent fishery disasters. Alaska is receiving $56,361,332 in disaster funding, which will support compensation, recovery, and relief for fishermen, communities, and stakeholders affected by the 2016 Gulf of Alaska pink salmon fishery disaster. “The news of this disaster relief funding for Alaska is incredibly encouraging. These dollars are vital to Alaskans and their families who were hit hard by the 2016 pink salmon fishery disaster,” said the Alaska Congressional Delegation. “This long awaited aid will bring much needed relief to Alaska’s economy, providing compensation and recovery for commercial fisherman, processors, and coastal communities whose livelihood depends on the health of our fisheries. We commend the Secretary of Commerce and are deeply pleased to see our hard work to secure this relief finally come to fruition.” Background Info: The Alaska Congressional Delegation fought to secure inclusion of a fisheries disaster funding in the Bipartisan Budget Act, which appropriated $200 million for fisheries disasters across eight states and U.S. territories. This funding responds to nine fisheries disasters declared in Alaska, Washington, California and Oregon, coupled with fisheries failures in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean as a result of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Alaska’s pink salmon fishery suffered disastrously low returns in 2016, while salmon and crab fisheries in other West Coast states experienced prolonged closures or poor returns between 2014 and 2016. Alaska last received fishery disaster funding in 2014, when $20.8 million was provided for Alaskan fishermen and communities along the Yukon and Kuskokwim Rivers and in Cook Inlet that were damaged by low Chinook salmon runs in 2012. ###
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Sullivan Cosponsors Bills to Permanently End Family Separations at Border Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) has joined lawmakers in cosponsoring two bills – The Protect Kids and Parents Act and The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act – aimed at providing an enduring legislative solution to end family separations during immigration proceedings. “The goal of these bills is to provide a legislative solution that allows families who illegally enter the country to remain together as they navigate the legal system, while also providing expedited processing and review,” said Senator Sullivan. “They include a number of safeguards meant to prevent human trafficking and child neglect, while also rejecting the failed ‘catch and release’ polices that have only incentivized a massive influx of illegal immigration on our southern border. While the president has now addressed this issue administratively, it’s important to recognize – something I’ve raised many times in the past – these types of ‘executive fixes’ to our immigration laws, potentially flouting the rule of law, are often temporary and not sustainable. A bipartisan, enduring solution passed by Congress is needed to prevent families from being divided, to allow for timely immigration proceedings, and to maintain the integrity of the law.” The Protect Kids and Parents Act (sponsored by Senator Ted Cruz, R-TX) will: Mandate that illegal immigrant families must be kept together; Provide for exceptions that allow a child to be removed from custody in specific circumstances, including cases involving aggravated criminal conduct or threat of harm to the children (such as abuse or neglect by the parent or evidence that the child is a victim of human trafficking); Provide for expedited processing and review of the cases of individuals who are in the U.S. with children, so that – within 14 days – those who meet the legal standards to stay will be allowed to stay and those who do not will be returned to their home countries with their families; Double the number of federal immigration judges, an increase from roughly 375 to 750. These new judges will prioritize processing claims of individuals who are here with children; Authorize new family shelters so that children can remain with their parents while their parents’ claims are being processed. The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act (sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis, R-NC) will: Keep families together while adults are prosecuted for illegally entering the United States; Increases the bed space in family residential facilities; Provides for exceptions that allow a child to be removed from custody in specific circumstances, including cases involving aggravated criminal conduct or threat of harm to the children (such as abuse or neglect by the parent or evidence that the child is a victim of human trafficking); Authorize the hiring of an additional 225 immigration judges to quickly process cases. Senator Sullivan was one of 16 lawmakers to attend a meeting at the White House today to discuss issues regarding trade and immigration. ###
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Sullivan Supports Defense Bill with Vital Icebreaker, Missile Defense, and Indo-Pacific Provisions WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined 84 of his colleagues in voting for the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, which supports $716 billion in defense funding for fiscal year 2019, and includes a 2.6% pay increase for our service members. The legislation includes 29 amendments and provisions secured by Senator Sullivan important to Alaska and the national security of our nation. “This year’s NDAA provides our troops with the resources, equipment, and training they need to protect our nation against an increasingly complex and diverse array of threats and gives the largest pay raise for our service members in nearly 10 years,” said Senator Sullivan. “This bipartisan bill continues the process of rebuilding our military, which for years had been constrained by sequestered-budgets and Obama administration defense cuts, and it continues to recognize that Alaska’s military capabilities play an important role in our national defense as global threats increase. Working alongside Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young, I’m proud to say that over the past three years we have been able to authorize and secure nearly $1.3 billion in military construction funding for our state.” “The title of this bill is also more than fitting. Senator McCain has served his country in the Senate for more than three decades, including as the current Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and for decades in the U.S. Navy, including five years as a POW in North Vietnam,” said Senator Sullivan. “He has an unwavering love for his country and has been an example for people of all ages of courage, tenacity and grit. I had the honor of visiting Senator McCain this weekend and he was very much looking forward to the passage of this bill.” Icebreakers and Arctic Policy: Senator Sullivan included a number of provisions in the FY2019 NDAA to advance U.S. interests in the Arctic region, including the authorization of 6 Heavy Polar-class Icebreakers for the Coast Guard and a requirement that each military service – the Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Corps – produce their own strategy for the Arctic region. The NDAA also includes language to urge the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State to examine the implications of Russian military activity in the Arctic as it related to U.S. military force posture in the region. “As I have said many times, while China and Russia recognize the Arctic’s economic, resource, and strategic importance, the U.S. continues to be days late and millions of dollars short,” said Senator Sullivan. “However, with each successive NDAA, Congress continues to make steady progress to advance our nation’s Arctic presence. This year, we again voted to include the authorization of six U.S. Coast Guard Icebreakers – restoring the Senate’s language from last year. Importantly, we also included a provision to require each U.S. military service to complete their own individual Arctic Strategy. Our rivals in Moscow and Beijing already acknowledge and are acting upon the Arctic’s geopolitical significance and it is well-past time for the U.S. to do the same.” Integrating our Missile Defense: Continuing to lead the effort to grow out nation’s missile defense, Senator Sullivan successfully included eight missile defense provisions in this year’s defense bill, including the first-time requirement to both develop and deploy a layer of space-based sensors. In addition, Senator Sullivan included important provisions to promote a more integrated missile defense system, to accelerate our defenses against hypersonic weapons, to encourage new strategic opportunities, to work with our allies on missile defense, and to look at additional options to better defend Guam. Furthermore, the NDAA included a $73 million Missile Defense Agency Unfunded requirement to initiate a missile defense tracking system. “Building off the success of last year’s missile defense provisions, this year we continued the effort by authorizing the full development and deployment of a space-based sensor layer,” said Senator Sullivan. “This is a big deal. We also doubled-down the process of readying our missile defenses – and those of our allies – against an ever-evolving missile threat. Given the threats we all face, we need a better missile defense to protect Americans, our deployed forces, and our allies. And once again – working in bipartisan fashion – Congress is stepping up to lead this critical missile defense effort.” Indo-Pacific Leadership: As a recognized leader on Indo-Pacific issues, Senator Sullivan, using his position on the Senate Armed Services Committee, continued to work to shape our country’s focus in the Indo-Pacific. Among the six provisions the Senator was able to secure was a reaffirmation of the importance of U.S. forces on the Korea Peninsula, a Statement of Policy of Freedom of Navigation, and language reinforcing the 2017 National Security Strategy and 2018 National Defense Strategy’s focus on allies and partnerships. “As I’ve long been saying, the Indo-Pacific is critically important to our national security and to security across the globe. From the rise of China, to instability from North Korea, to the emergence of India, this year’s defense authorization continues to focus our nation’s attention on this critical region,” said Senator Sullivan. “Critically, this year’s NDAA also sends an important message about the Senate’s role in foreign policy, makes clear that the U.S. is still the key power in Indo-Pacific, and lets our allies and adversaries know that we’re committed to the Indo-Pacific for decades to come. Alaska Specific Items: Alaska MILCON: The FY19 NDAA authorizes $286.8 million for Alaska military construction. Alaska and the KC-46: Given Alaska’s status as the hub of combat airpower – with incoming F-35A squadrons, a large F-22 presence, and other strategically located aviation assets – these amendments express that the Air Force should, in the short-term, study the possibility of increasing the tanker mission at Eielson AFB due to increase requirements and, in the long-term, take a hard look at basing the OCONUS KC-46A at a strategically-located installation with abundant training opportunities – like Alaska. Cold Weather Training: Requires the Department of Defense to analyze current and future cold weather training requirements for all four services and to look for opportunities to expand cold weather training. Notably, this provision requires an analysis of potential cold weather amphibious landing locations for live fire exercises and an analysis of potential State and tribal partnerships on cold weather training. Advocate for the Arctic: Strongly urges the Department of Defense finally designate primary responsibly for Arctic defense issues to a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense. U.S. Navy Icebreaker Requirements: Requires the Secretary of the Navy to inform the U.S. Coast Guard what equipment they plan to install on the new Polar, Heavy-class Icebreakers. Innovative Readiness Training: This amendment supports funding future local reserve training projects in Alaska, including Operation Arctic Care, which provides roving medical and dental care to Rural Alaska villages. Kodiak Spaceport: Given the importance of assured access to space to U.S. national security, this amendment highlights and encourages expanding the Department of Defense’s and the Missile Defense Agency’s use of FAA-licensed spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak Island, as a vital part of our space and missile-defense test missions. Arctic Search and Rescue: The Alaska National Guard independently developed an Arctic search and rescue package that allows them to respond to potential large-scale mass-casualty events in the Arctic. This amendment brings attention to that effort and encourages the DOD to provide additional resources to field and expand Arctic search and rescue capabilities. SUSV Replacement: This amendment requires the Department of Defense to conduct a DoD-wide operational needs review and to consider granting rapid acquisition authorities to procure a replacement to the SUSV. ###
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Bipartisan Lawmakers Introduce Resolution Recognizing National G.I. Bill Commemoration Week Resolution commemorates 73rd anniversary of original G.I. Bill, which served nearly 8 million veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Jon Tester (D-MT) and other senators in introducing a bipartisan resolution recognizing the week of June 18 through June 22 as National G.I. Bill Commemoration Week. This week marks the 73rd anniversary of the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944, landmark legislation that established the original G.I. Bill, which provided educational assistance to service members, veterans and their families. The original G.I. Bill sent nearly 8 million returning World War II veterans to college and vocational schools. Veterans today are taking advantage of a similar benefit in the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill. “The G.I. Bill represents only one of the many promises made by a grateful nation to assist our service members in their transition back into civilian life,” said Sullivan, a Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserves. “It is a significant piece of legislation, one that has empowered generations – in every facet of the country – to succeed in the workforce and in their communities. As Senate co-chair of the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus and as a Marine, I was honored to collaborate with my colleagues to recognize the G.I. Bill’s history as a powerful tool that has served our nation’s service members, veterans and their families.” Last year, Chairman Isakson-authored legislation to enhance the post-9/11 G.I. Bill – the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 – was signed into law. Isakson’s legislation eliminated the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their G.I. Bill and instead allows them to use their benefits at any time in their professional career – making it a ‘forever’ benefit. “The G.I. Bill has been one of our country’s great successes, and I am pleased to honor its long history, from the original G.I. Bill of 1944 to the Forever G.I. Bill of today,” said Isakson. “The G.I. Bill doesn’t just honor and reward a veteran’s service—it builds on values and skills gained by each veteran through their service and provides a transformative opportunity for them to continue serving their community and their country through education. Our veterans are critical to the future leadership of our nation, and the investments we place in them during their service and through the G.I. Bill help ensure a strong future for our country.” “Investing in a quality education for service members today will pay dividends well into the future,” said Tester. “During G.I. Bill Week, we honor our veterans and recommit ourselves to ensure they can put their unique skillset and experience to use long after they hang up their uniforms.” In addition to Sullivan, Isakson, and Tester, the Senate resolution was introduced by Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Bill Nelson (D-FL), and Thom Tillis (R-NC). "The G.I. Bill changed the course of history. Millions of returning WWII veterans enrolled in higher education and job training programs and helped usher in an era of broad economic growth in the United States. The G.I. Bill changed my life, too," said Senator Carper, a 23-year veteran of the U.S. Navy and Naval Reserves. "When I returned from Southeast Asia after the Vietnam War, I used the G.I. Bill to enroll at the University of Delaware and pursue a master’s degree. Today's veterans and their families have earned incredible G.I. Bill benefits through their sacrifice for our country. I'm proud to introduce a bipartisan resolution celebrating FDR signing the original G.I. Bill and renewing our commitment to making sure every veteran gets the most out of their hard-earned G.I. Bill benefits." A companion resolution was also introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives by Congressman Phil Roe, R-Tenn., chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. ###
06.18.2018	06.18.18 Sullivan Statement on Sturgeon Case WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court granted Alaskan John Sturgeon’s second Petition for Certiorari in Sturgeon v. Frost. “I was encouraged to hear the U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to review the Ninth Circuit's most recent decision in the Sturgeon case. In the first 2016 Sturgeon case, the U.S. Supreme Court acknowledged that ‘Alaska is different.’ It appears that the Ninth Circuit – once again – did not follow the Supreme Court’s ruling. Resolving the dispute over the extent to which lands and waters are managed in Alaska has significant implications for Alaskans and the nation. I applaud John Sturgeon's remarkable tenacity and selfless resolve to defend the promises of Statehood.” ###
06.13.2018	06.13.18 PoliticoPro: Trump's talk of Korean pullout could echo across Asia By Jacqueline Klimas and Wesley Morgan Republicans and defense experts are warning that President Donald Trump's idea of pulling American troops from South Korea would undermine stability across Asia and weaken the U.S. against China. One GOP senator, Alaska's Dan Sullivan, is pushing legislative language touting the importance of the U.S. military presence in deterring North Korean aggression — in contrast to Trump's repeated calls for withdrawing American forces someday. And other Republicans have sounded that theme since Tuesday's summit with Kim Jong Un in Singapore, where the president expressed a desire to eventually "bring our soldiers back home." "There's a reason we've had a U.S. presence there, and it's always served its purpose," Rep. Chris Stewart (R-Utah), a former Air Force B-1 bomber pilot, said in an interview Wednesday. Stewart said U.S. forces should leave only if something happens to ease the threat from Pyongyang, such as a future peace agreement that unifies the two Koreas. "I don't think we necessarily need to have troops there 100 years from now under certain circumstances," Stewart said. "But those circumstances need to be very tightly defined, and we're a ways away from that." The defense authorization bill being considered by the Senate, S. 2987 (115), includes language championed by Sullivan that says the American troop presence in South Korea "continues to play a critical role in safeguarding the peaceful and stable rules-based international order that benefits all countries." Trump spoke about withdrawing from South Korea as a presidential candidate, citing the cost to U.S. taxpayers of maintaining the tens of thousands of troops who have remained there since the Korean War ended 65 years ago. But at the summit on Tuesday, he acknowledged that "that's not part of the equation right now. At some point, I hope it will be, but not right now." Even so, security and defense analysts say Trump may be drastically underestimating the importance of the 28,500 U.S. troops stationed in South Korea: Withdrawing them could could lead Japan to question why it continues to host more than 50,000 American troops — especially when those troops repeatedly get into trouble for actions including drunken driving and sexual assault. And a loss of the American presence in Japan could force the U.S. out of the region entirely, Brookings Institution fellow Ryan Hass said. "The fear is if we were going to draw down our presence [in Korea], the only place we would still have permanent troops in northeast Asia is Japan," said Hass, who previously served as the director for China, Taiwan and Mongolia on former President Barack Obama's National Security Council. "I can imagine a situation where Japanese voters start asking, 'Why are we the only suckers in Asia stuck with American troops?'" The fear: Withdrawing from the region entirely would diminish U.S. influence in the Asia-Pacific, leaving a vacuum for China to fill. Having U.S. troops in South Korea also demonstrates a clear commitment to American alliances and provides a forward presence to deter aggression. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis last week ruled out the idea of pulling out of South Korea anytime soon, saying on June 3: "We're not going anywhere. It's not even a subject of the discussions." But on Monday, Mattis told reporters that he wasn't sure whether a possible future troop reduction would even be on the table in Singapore. "I don't believe it is," he said. When asked whether he would know if the topic was on the agenda, Mattis said, "Yes, I sure would." Trump's words in Singapore raised doubts about Mattis' previous reassurances, as did the president's pledge to end U.S. military "war games" in the peninsula. After the summit, several Republican lawmakers publicly broke with Trump on the future of the U.S. presence in South Korea. "As far as moving troops off the Korean Peninsula, I think we need to stay there," Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) told Time magazine. "We don't just withdraw our troops." "The one thing that I would violently disagree with is removing our troops," Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said on NBC. "That would destabilize Asia. That's what China wants. That doesn't make the world more peaceful, it makes it more dangerous." On the other hand, a successful effort by Trump to normalize relations with North Korea could create a new set of problems with China if American troops remain on the peninsula. "If through some miraculous process, we're able to achieve rapid near-term denuclearization, it will have the unintended effect of opening up a broader set of challenges," Hass said. "If we keep a presence there, the Chinese will complain alliances are pointed against them." But Hass added that he found a "reluctant tolerance" to continued U.S. presence in South Korea during a recent trip to Beijing. It's unclear if U.S. military officials in the region knew ahead of time that Trump would talk about bringing American forces home at some point in the future. But some experts speculated that the military was caught off guard by the remarks. "By not discussing his remarks beforehand with allies, by not discussing with the military command concerned, Trump is also raising the risk of post-summit fallout with the very adversary he's been courting," said Mira Rapp-Hooper of the Center for a New American Security. Despite the broad criticism of Trump's remarks, some experts argue that rethinking the U.S. troop presence in South Korea is a smart step. Michael Auslin, a fellow at the Hoover Institution, said the mindset of an alliance serving as a "open-ended blank check" from the United States is beginning to change. "Historically, alliances do not last for 60, 70 years," he said during a media roundtable this week in Stanford, Calif. "They don't. They're temporary, they're designed to deal with a specific problem and then they break apart." David Kang, the director of the University of Southern California's Korean Studies Institute, pointed to past U.S. drawdowns as evidence that the current troop presence is not necessarily some magic number. "We've been able to draw down tens of thousands of troops without weakening South Korea," Kang said. "We shouldn't say, 'They're there, therefore they must stay there forever.' It's a question we have to ask. ... An alliance can be very strong without U.S. troops there." At 28,500, the U.S. presence in South Korea is the smallest it has been since before the Korean War. And in recent years, the main combat unit there has rotated in from stateside, rather than living in South Korea permanently as U.S. brigades and divisions did for decades and some support units still do. U.S. troop levels have gradually fallen from a peak of about 325,000 troops on the peninsula during the Korean War. During heightened tensions in the Demilitarized Zone in the late 1960s, the U.S. had more than 65,000 troops in South Korea. The number then hovered around 40,000 troops for decades after former President Richard Nixon cut troop levels in 1971, then dropped to between 30,000 and 40,000 in the 1990s, when the George H.W. Bush administration also removed American nuclear weapons from South Korea. In recent decades, the main U.S. ground combat formation on the peninsula has been the 2nd Infantry Division. But that unit's presence dropped to a single ground combat brigade of tanks and armored vehicles plus aviation and support units when the George W. Bush administration cut the troop count to a little under 30,000 in the mid-2000s, when the Army needed some Korea-based troops to fight in Iraq. The Korea-based armored brigade deactivated in 2015 as the Army shrank and moved to a rotational model for its presence in Korea and Europe. Currently, a brigade from the Georgia-based 3rd Infantry Division is deployed to the peninsula. By: Jacqueline Klimas and Wesley Morgan Source: PoliticoPro
06.13.2018	06.13.18 Sullivan, Manchin Introduce Bill Requiring GAO to Study Substance Use Disorder Treatment Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) introduced the Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act, which will require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to evaluate and report on the capacity of both residential and inpatient treatment facilities along with the status of their availability and needs. This will be the first federal government study on substance use disorder treatment infrastructure in the United States. “In order for the government to properly allocate funding, we need to know exactly how much we need and where it should go. While I applaud the work of various outside groups to provide this information, I don’t think the federal government can be a true partner in this effort until it officially recognizes the scope and scale of the epidemic that we’re dealing with. This study will be our guide and will serve as the foundation of government funded substance use disorder treatment and will allow us to measure our progress in the years ahead. My friend Senator Sullivan and I will be leading the charge to get this passed as soon as possible,” Senator Manchin said. "In Alaska, we’ve seen firsthand the struggle of providing those suffering from addiction with sufficient access to treatment. The rapidly growing opioid epidemic has only compounded the issues we face with understaffing, bed shortages and growing wait times,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “This legislation highlights an often overlooked issue in the fight against heroin and prescription painkiller addiction – the lack of quality addiction treatment facilities, which has been raised by advocates and medical health professionals in communities across my state. When a person makes the important step of seeking help to achieve sobriety, we should be doing everything we can to promote sustained, long-term recovery. This legislation directs the federal government to take a comprehensive inventory of treatment options and is key to ensuring the most impactful disbursement of funding as we work toward solutions to this public health crisis.” The study also will look at treatment availability by geographic region, and within specific demographics, including pregnant women and adolescents. The GAO report would need to be conducted and presented to Congress within 24 months. ###
06.12.2018	06.12.18 Sullivan Statement on U.S./North Korea Summit WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the conclusion of the U.S./North Korea Summit: “First and foremost, President Trump and his national security team deserve credit for implementing a maximum pressure campaign that ultimately brought Kim Jong Un to the table – something many thought would never happen,” said Senator Sullivan. “The President’s definitive statement that ‘sanctions will remain in effect’ should also be commended. And while I appreciate the President’s comments about the ‘arduous process’ his administration is undertaking with the North Korean regime, we must proceed with caution as it relates to the suspension of military exercises on the Korean Peninsula. “As a U.S. Marine who has trained side-by-side with ROK forces on the shores of Korea, I’ve seen firsthand the importance of U.S.– Korea military exercises – conducted with other nations – which promote readiness and interoperability among our forces. They deter aggression, they do not provoke it. It is North Korea that has a long and infamous history of provocation that dates back to their 1950 invasion of South Korea backed by the Soviet Union. It is North Korea that must earn back the trust of the international community. “Going forward, it is imperative that sanctions on North Korea remain in place, that credible military options remain on the table, and that the U.S. continues to bolster our military – especially our homeland missile defense.” ###
06.12.2018	06.12.18 Senators Introduce Resolution in Support of American Flower Industry Washington, DC —Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) today introduced a resolution to designate July as “American Grown Flower Month” and encourage consumers to buy “Certified American Grown” flowers. American consumers spend almost $27 billion per year on floral products each year. While the majority of consumers would prefer to buy locally-grown flowers, only 20 percent of the flowers sold here were grown in the United States. “California grows nearly 75 percent of American-grown cut flowers – including tulips, gerbera daisies, lilies, irises and gladiolas,” said Senator Feinstein. “Americans want to support local businesses and growers, but often are unaware the flowers they’re purchasing were grown outside of the United States. Our resolution will help raise awareness and encourage consumers to look for the ‘certified American grown’ label before buying flowers.” “Alaska’s moderate weather and cool soil conditions allows for a growing season that brings beautiful American grown flowers to market throughout the summer,” said Senator Sullivan. “In Alaska, our local peony growers – family owned farms across our state – provide some of the most beautiful and saturated blooms to weddings and events around the country; well after the traditional growing season has passed in other states. American Grown Flower Month is only one small acknowledgment of the value and support we share for these local small business owners, but an important one.” “California growers proudly supply Americans with foods and products used across the country, including many of flowers we share with our friends and loved ones” said Senator Harris. “As Americans increasingly look to support local businesses, it’s important that we give local flower growers the recognition they deserve. I’m proud to cosponsor this resolution and support our local growers in California and across the country.” The full text of the resolution follows: Expressing the sense of the Senate that flowers grown in the United States support the farmers, small businesses, jobs, and economy of the United States, that flower farming is an honorable vocation, and designating July as “American Grown Flower Month.” Whereas cut flower growers in the United States are hard-working, dedicated individuals who bring beauty, economic stimulus, and pride to their communities and the nation; Whereas the people of the United States have a long history of using flowers and greens grown in the United States to bring beauty to important events and express affection for loved ones; Whereas consumers spend almost $27,000,000,000 each year on floral products, including cut flowers, garden plants, bedding, and indoor plants; Whereas nearly 30 percent of households in the United States purchase fresh cut flowers and greens from more than 16,000 florists and floral establishments each year; Whereas the people of the United States increasingly want to support domestically produced foods and agricultural products and would prefer to buy locally grown flowers whenever possible, yet a majority of domestic consumers do not know where the flowers they purchase are grown; Whereas in response to increased demand, the “Certified American Grown Flowers” logo was created in July 2014 in order to educate and empower consumers to purchase flowers from domestic producers; Whereas, as of April 2017, millions of stems of domestically grown flowers are now “Certified American Grown”; Whereas domestic flower farmers produce thousands of varieties of flowers across the United States, such as peonies in Alaska, Gerbera daisies in California, lupines in Maine, tulips in Washington, lilies in Oregon, and larkspur in Texas; Whereas the 5 flower varieties with the highest United States production are tulips, Gerbera daisies, lilies, gladiolas and irises; Whereas people in every State have access to domestically grown flowers, yet only 1 of 5 flowers sold in the United States is domestically grown; Whereas the domestic cut flower industry creates almost $42,000,000 in economic impact daily and supports hundreds of growers, thousands of small businesses, and tens of thousands of jobs in the United States; Whereas more people in the United States are expressing interest in growing flowers locally, which has resulted in an approximately 20 percent increase in the number of domestic cut flower farms between 2007 and 2012; Whereas most domestic cut flowers and greens are sold in the United States within 24 to 48 hours after harvest and last longer than flowers shipped longer distances; Whereas flowers grown domestically enhance the ability of the people of the United States to festively celebrate weddings and births, and honor those who have passed; Whereas flower-giving has been a holiday tradition in the United States for generations; Whereas flowers speak to the beauty of motherhood on Mother’s Day and to the spirit of love on Valentine’s Day; Whereas flowers are an essential part of other holidays such as Thanksgiving, Christmas, Hanukkah, and Kwanzaa; Whereas flowers help commemorate the service and sacrifice of our Armed Forces on Memorial Day and Veterans Day; and Whereas the Senate encourages the cultivation of flowers in the United States by domestic flower farmers: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) designates July 2018 as “American Grown Flower Month”; (2) recognizes that purchasing flowers grown in the United States supports the farmers, small businesses, jobs, and economy of the United States; (3) recognizes that growing flowers and greens in the United States is a vital part of the agricultural industry of the United States; (4) recognizes that cultivating flowers domestically enhances the ability of the people of the United States to festively celebrate holidays and special occasions; and (5) urges all people of the United States to proactively showcase flowers and greens grown in the United States in order to show support for our flower farmers, processors, and distributors as well as agriculture in the United States overall. ###
06.09.2018	06.09.18 Sullivan Provisions in NDAA Help Bolster President Trump’s Leverage in Upcoming U.S./North Korea Summit WASHINGTON, DC – In the lead up to the U.S./North Korea Summit – scheduled to begin on June 12th in Singapore – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, fought to secure several provisions in the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to help bolster the Trump administration’s position heading into negotiations with the unpredictable North Korean regime. “With the upcoming U.S./North Korea Summit just days away, my colleagues and I on the Senate Armed Services Committee have worked to bolster the President’s hand in these negotiations,” said Senator Sullivan. “By properly integrating and bolstering America’s homeland missile defense, while also sending a strong message that removing U.S. military forces on the Korean Peninsula should be a non-negotiable item, the Trump administration’s negotiating power will be stronger.” BACKGROUND: Removal of U.S. Forces from Korea: The provision forcefully states that it is the Sense of the U.S. Senate that the removal of U.S. forces from the Korea Peninsula is non-negotiable as it relates to the upcoming North Korea — U.S. Summit. This Sense of the U.S. Senate reinforced what Secretary of Defense Mattis said recently at a defense ministers meeting in Singapore last week. Integrating our U.S. Missile Defense Systems: Develops and Deploys Space-based Sensors: Mandates the development deployment of space-based sensors as soon as practicable. Readies Our Defenses: Mandates an analysis of accelerating the development and deployment of the Redesigned Kill Vehicle (RKV) to Missile Field 4 at Fort Greely. Promotes a More Integrated Missile Defense: Directs a study on an integrated air-and-missile defense architecture to protect against evolving threats outlined in the 2018 National Defense Strategy. Accelerates Our Defenses Against Hypersonic Threats: Directs the acceleration of our hypersonic missile defenses and links them to the deployment of space-based sensors. Focuses of Allies: Expresses that the U.S. should work with allies and trusted partners to share missile defense capabilities. More Rigorous Testing: Seeks to discourage a risk adverse culture of missile defense testing and promotes a more rigorous testing regime to deliver capabilities at the “speed of relevance.” This provision builds on the success of last year’s Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act – legislation authored by Senator Sullivan – which passed the Senate as part of FY18 NDAA and was fully funded by Congress and signed into law by President Trump in December 2017. ###
06.08.2018	06.08.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Ed Schoenfeld WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Juneau resident Ed Schoenfeld, a 37-year veteran of the Southeast press corps who has recently retired. For decades – in both print and public broadcasting – Ed has been known for fairness, accuracy, and curiosity and for his steadfast commitment to local reporting. Ed was honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s “Alaskan of the Week” series. Senator Sullivan Honoring Ed Schoenfeld as Alaskan of the Week (click image or here to watch, click here to download video). TRIBUTE TO ED SCHOENFELD (U.S. Senate – June 7, 2018): Mr. President, it is Thursday, and that means it is the afternoon when I get to talk about someone in my State who is doing a great job for the State, and oftentimes for the country--someone who is really making a difference. As the Presiding Officer and the pages know, I like to refer to this person as the ``Alaskan of the Week.'' It is one of my favorite parts of the week in the Senate, being able to talk about someone who has made a real difference. When I give this speech every week, I like to talk about what is going on in Alaska. It is a beautiful State. It is the biggest State--we all know that--in the country. The State is fully in bloom. Its tourists are flocking north by the tens of thousands to view the wildlife, glaciers, mountains, to eat our delicious seafood, take in amazing views through hikes, and have an adventure. I want to make sure that everyone who is watching in the Galleries or on TV on C-SPAN--you have to come to Alaska. You will have the trip of a lifetime, guaranteed. Come on up. What is truly impressive about my State is the people who live there and the sense of community we have there. Alaska isn't always the easiest place to live. It is far from the lower 48 States. The weather can be extreme, but, as a result, the people in the communities bond, and they work together, particularly in some of our most remote communities. We are one big community in Alaska, even though our State is so big. Every community in Alaska and America needs to be able to share reliable, credible information. On that topic, there has been quite a lot of negative attention paid to the national media, in particular, these past few years. Some of it is merited; nobody is perfect, right? But the vital role of local journalism and how that plays in different communities across our country haven't been talked about nearly enough. We all know this, and in many ways we all benefit from the thousands of local reporters who are working in our country, day in and day out, reporting great fact-finding stories and working hard. I believe we should all be saluting them for doing this important work, and that is what we are doing here today. I would like to introduce Ed Schoenfeld, a reporter in Alaska who is our Alaskan of the Week and who has been reliably reporting the news from Southeast Alaska for 37 years. He recently took a well-earned retirement. Well done, Ed. You are our Alaskan of the Week. Let me talk a little bit about him. He hitchhiked to Fairbanks when he was 20 years old for a little trip, and as so many do, he promised himself that when he had the opportunity, he would go back to Alaska. That opportunity came in 1979 when the program director position opened up in the public broadcasting station KTOO in Juneau, AK. Now, Alaska public radio was and still is, in many ways, renowned across the country for its local reporting and for its crucial link to rural communities who need that reporting throughout our State--and need it badly. Interestingly, I think, because of the challenges it presents to reporters, some of National Public Radio's most famous reporters nationally--NPR's most famous reporters--have all cut their teeth in Alaska. So some of the people listening probably heard of Peter Kenyon, Corey Flintoff, Elizabeth Arnold. These are kind of the big dogs at NPR right now. Well, they all got their start in Alaska. So public radio is where Alaskans throughout my State get their news about the weather, about whale hunts, about bear attacks, about births, deaths, crimes, baptism, good works, bad deeds, and you name it; that is where we get our information. In smaller communities, this information could be critical. Because public radio stations across Alaska work cooperatively, they always pretty much keep it local. So, from KTOO, Ed went to the newsroom of the Juneau Empire, where he stayed for 18 years. That is the big paper in Juneau. For the last 15 years, he has been one of the voices of Southeast Alaska on Coast Alaska, a public broadcasting consortium of five local communities. His nickname is ``dean of the Douglas press corps.'' Now, this is a bit of a joke, not toward him but just what ``Douglas'' means. Douglas is an island of about 3,000 people. As the Juneau Empire put it, Ed has earned the professorial status of the dean of the press corps. That status came about because of the dozens and dozens of reporters he has trained and mentored throughout the years, and that is a great legacy. Of course, he also takes his work very seriously. He has done plenty of lighthearted features about equestrians in Wrangell, exploring caves in the Tongass National Forest, which is the largest national forest in the country. There are also deeper dives, as you would expect from a serious journalist. He has won an investigative journalism award about allegations of corruption related to a State contract. He has covered our important businesses extensively. There is nobody who has done more digging into an issue that I and my fellow Alaskans care deeply about--particularly in Southeast--and that is what we call the transboundary mining issue--mining waste that comes from mines in Canada into Alaska's waters. Ed has focused on that more than any other reporter, and it is an issue that, as I mentioned, many of us take very seriously. Transboundary mining is complex. Ed has traveled both in Canada and Alaska to the communities that are impacted by this pollution. He has spoken to everyone--community leaders, fishermen, government officials, environmentalists, mining companies, tourism businesses--and what he ultimately came to on this subject is that our concerns about this pollution are legitimate, but unlike some are saying, not all mines are bad--certainly not in Alaska. We have a number of mines, and certainly some are trying to do the right thing. It is more complicated than what the critics often say, says Ed. That is the way it is on most stories, and that is why we need good reporters. So many issues are complicated. We can get so frustrated with the kind of simplistic ``he said, she said'' reporting that gets in the papers or on TV today, but good reporters, as we all know, dig much deeper. They cut through the propaganda. They lay out all the facts and facets of an issue and, in many ways, they let us decide. They recognize the people who are listening are intelligent, and they try and help us figure out the importance of some of these big issues. These are the kind of reporters we need in every community. These are the kind of reporters who I think are critical for our democracy. So now Ed will spend more time with his wife--also a former reporter--Betsy and his two daughters, Elizabeth and Maggie. I am sorry to see him, as I am sure most Alaskans are, hang up his dean's robe. I know his colleagues are sad, but there will be others who follow in his footsteps, others he has mentored--young, eager reporters who want to inform their community, reliably report the news and facts, and of course there is no better place to do that than in Alaska. So, Ed, thanks for all of your 37 years of hard work for our great State, and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. Your voice will be missed. ###
06.08.2018	06.08.18 Sullivan Joins Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation to Protect States’ Rights to Regulate Marijuana Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers to introduce bicameral legislation to ensure that each state has the right to determine the best approach for regulating marijuana within its borders. The bill, the Strengthening the Tenth Amendment Through Entrusting States Act (STATES Act), works to address a number of areas in which state and federal marijuana laws are in conflict, while also containing a number of commonsense guardrails to ensure states, territories, and tribes regulate marijuana safely. “This issue, particularly as Alaska and others states across the country make the decision to legalize, is one I see as a matter of states’ rights,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “We’ve come together – lawmakers from both sides of the aisle – to offer a state-based solution to areas where state and federal marijuana laws are in conflict, including issues relating to production, sale, distribution, enforcement and longstanding challenges surrounding banking and the lack of access to financial institutions for marijuana-related businesses. Months ago, I stated that the repeal of the Cole Memorandum could be the impetus necessary for Congress to find a permanent legislative solution to these issues. I believe the STATES Act is that solution; one that provides safeguards and a level of regulatory certainty for marijuana enforcement while also protecting Alaskans and the rights of the State of Alaska.” The STATES Act, authored by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), would: Amend the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) so that – as long as states and tribes comply with a limited number of basic safeguards – its provisions would no longer apply to any person acting in compliance with State or tribal laws relating to marijuana activities. Clarify that state-compliant financial transactions do not qualify as trafficking and do not result in proceeds of an unlawful transaction. Remove industrial hemp from the list of controlled substances under the CSA. Prohibit the distribution of marijuana at transportation safety facilities such as rest areas and truck stops. Prohibit the distribution or sale of marijuana to persons under the age of 21 other than for medical purposes. The following federal criminal provisions under the CSA continue to apply: Prohibits endangering human life while manufacturing marijuana. Prohibits employment of persons under age 18 in drug operations. The legislation has been endorsed by organizations including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Americans for Prosperity, Americans for Safe Access, Americans for Tax Reform, the Brennan Center for Justice, Campaign for Liberty, the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Cooperative Credit Union Association, the Drug Policy Alliance, the Institute for Liberty, LatinoJustice PRLDEF, the Law Enforcement Action Partnership, the Marijuana Policy Project, the Massachusetts Bankers Association, the Maine Credit Union League, the Mountain West Credit Union Association, the National Cannabis Bar Association, the National Cannabis Industry Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the New Federalism Fund, NORML, the Northwest Credit Union Association, R Street, and the Taxpayers Protection Alliance. A fact sheet about the legislation is available here, and the full bill text is available here. ###
06.07.2018	06.07.18 Sullivan, Schatz Highlight Legislation to Strengthen America’s Missile Defense Systems WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) was recently joined by Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) in introducing S. 2980, the Integrated Missile Defense Act of 2018. The bill – which builds upon the success of last year’s bipartisan Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act of 2017 and seeks to further strengthen and integrate our nation’s missile defenses – was recently included as an amendment to the Senate's FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “Last year, Congress – working closely with the Trump administration – undertook much-needed efforts to dramatically bolster and advance our country’s missile defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “This year, continuing to work in a bipartisan fashion, our bill finally authorizes the full development and deployment of a space-based sensor layer. This important measure further helps to ready our missile defenses and make them increasingly interoperable and effective against an ever-evolving missile threat. Additionally, this bill seeks to better align our missile defenses with the 2018 National Defense Strategy including more quickly fielding advanced capabilities to address future threats, better integrating our missile defense systems, and seeking to collaborate more with allies and partners on missile defense technologies.” “When it comes to North Korea, we can hope for the best while still planning for the worst,” Senator Schatz said. “I strongly support diplomacy, but in the meantime, this bill beefs up our missile defense system and protects Hawai‘i, Alaska, and the U.S. mainland from rogue missile threats. It also speeds up our efforts to protect U.S. forces and allies in the region by improving our ability to detect, track, discriminate, and intercept increasingly sophisticated future missile threats.” S. 2980 is also cosponsored by Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Tom Cotton (R-AR). Background: Develops and Deploys Space-based Sensors: Mandates the development deployment of space-based sensors as soon as practicable. Readies Our Defenses: Mandates an analysis of accelerating the development and deployment of the Redesigned Kill Vehicle (RKV) to Missile Field 4 at Fort Greely. Promotes a More Integrated Missile Defense: Directs a study on an integrated air-and-missile defense architecture to protect against evolving threats outlined in the 2018 National Defense Strategy. Accelerates Our Defenses Against Hypersonic Threats: Directs the acceleration of our hypersonic missile defenses and links them to the deployment of space-based sensors. Focuses of Allies: Expresses that the U.S. should work with allies and trusted partners to share missile defense capabilities. More Rigorous Testing: Seeks to discourage a risk adverse culture of missile defense testing and promotes a more rigorous testing regime to deliver capabilities at the “speed of relevance.” ###
06.06.2018	06.06.18 Tara Sweeney Advances Toward Senate Confirmation Senate Indian Affairs Committee Approves Alaskan Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a Senate Indian Affairs Committee business meeting today, U.S. Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) voted in support of Tara Mac Lean Sweeney of Alaska to be Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs at the U.S. Department of the Interior. The committee approved the nomination by voice vote. Her nomination now heads to the full Senate for consideration. If confirmed, Sweeney will be the first female Alaskan Native to serve in the position. “I was pleased to be able to support Tara Sweeney’s Senate confirmation as she is extremely well qualified for this position. She is a fierce advocate for Alaska and will ensure that the Interior Department fulfills its federal trust responsibility to the American Indian and Alaskan Native people,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “Tara is known for her strong leadership and ability to work in cooperation with tribal, local, state, and federal leaders to make meaningful and measurable impacts on Native communities. Her ability to work collaboratively with others, bringing together diverse views, to pursue the common goal of bettering the lives of the Native people will serve her well in this position.” “Today’s vote moves Tara Sweeney one step closer to becoming our next Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, an extremely important position not only for Alaska but the nation,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “With Tara’s long history of advocating for Alaska Native cultural values, rights, and economic opportunity, I can’t think of anyone better – or more qualified – for this critical role within the Department of Interior. I thank the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, both Republicans and Democrats, for coming together to overwhelmingly advance Tara’s confirmation and look forward to her swift confirmation before the full Senate.” (Click here or the image above to watch video of Senator Murkowski speaking on behalf of Tara Sweeney) The Indian Affairs Committee held a hearing on Tara Sweeney’s nomination on May 9, in which Senator Murkowski and Dan Sullivan offered their full support. Background: On October 17, 2017, President Trump nominated Tara Sweeney to be the Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs, one of five assistant secretaries at the Department of the Interior, reporting to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary. The Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs supports the Secretary of the Interior in fulfilling the United States’ trust responsibility to the federally recognized American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and villages and individual Indian trust beneficiaries, as well as in upholding the Federal-Tribal government-to-government relationship. ###
06.05.2018	06.05.18 Senator Sullivan Welcomes Decision to Cancel August Recess Senator Sullivan Welcomes Decision to Cancel August Recess Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today welcomed the decision by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to cancel the August state work period in order to continue work on a number of critical priorities, including the confirmation of executive branch officials and judges, and annual appropriations measures: “Today’s announcement to cancel a major portion of the August recess represents a determined effort by the Republican-led Senate to make the best use of the time we have left in order to fill critical vacancies within the government and give the Alaskan and American people the solutions and relief they have demanded,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “I thank Majority Leader McConnell for listening to his fellow Senators and for once again recognizing the virtue of extending the Senate calendar in order to break through this unprecedented level of obstruction. While the August recess is vitally important to my duties as Alaska’s Senator – particularly given our size, unique geography and the fact that over 80% of our communities are off the road system – Alaskans understand the importance of staying in Washington, D.C. to continue the important progress being made on nominees, judges and fixing our broken budget process.” Historic Obstruction: Number of cloture votes taken in the Senate on executive and judicial nominations in the first two years of a president’s term. In May, Senator Sullivan joined 15 of his Senate colleagues in highlighting the critical need to break through the historic backlog on confirmations and to avoid a year end battle to fund the government – even if that meant working nights, weekends and into portions of the August recess. The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on May 10, 2018 and during a press conference on May 15, 2018. Senator Sullivan speaks on the need to continue positive work on behalf of the American people (click image or here to watch) ###
05.31.2018	05.31.18 Sullivan on New Tariffs Against Key U.S. Allies: “Bad Move” Press Contact Beijing, China – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today issued the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s announcement that it will impose new metal tariffs against key U.S. allies: “Right strategy. Wrong target. The president and his administration have repeatedly and correctly stated that China’s non-reciprocal, mercantilist policies pose the biggest economic threat to America, our workers, and the U.S.-led global trading system.
05.25.2018	05.25.18 Sullivan Leads Charge on Icebreakers, Missile Defense, and the Indo-Pacific in NDAA WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, voted in favor of the committee’s markup of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. On a vote of 25-2, the committee voted overwhelmingly to pass the bill, which supports $716 billion in defense funding for fiscal year 2019, which includes a 2.6% pay increase for our service members. The legislation includes 28 provisions secured by Senator Sullivan important to Alaska and the national security of our nation. Icebreakers and Arctic Policy: Senator Sullivan included a number of provisions in the FY2019 NDAA to advance U.S. interests in the Arctic region, including the authorization of 6 Heavy Polar-class Icebreakers for the Coast Guard and a requirement that each military service – the Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Corps – produce their own strategy for the Artic region. The NDAA also includes language to urge the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State to examine the implications of Russian military activity in the Arctic as it related to U.S. military force posture in the region. “Two authoritarian states with very concerning track records have pushed all-in on the Arctic,” said Senator Sullivan. “While China and Russia seem to recognize the Arctic’s economic, resource, and strategic importance, unfortunately, the U.S. has been late to see it. Thankfully, that does not include my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee and, during the markup, we voted to authorize six U.S. Coast Guard Icebreakers and require each U.S. military service to complete their own individual Arctic Strategy. Slowly but surely, we’re finally beginning to wake up to the Arctic’s growing geopolitical significance.” Integrating our Missile Defense: Continuing to lead the effort to grow out nation’s missile defense, Senator Sullivan successfully included eight missile defense provisions in this year’s defense bill, including the first-time requirement to both develop and deploy a layer of space-based sensors. In addition, Senator Sullivan included important provisions to promote a more integrated missile defense system, to accelerate our defenses against hypersonic weapons, to encourage new strategic opportunities, to work with our allies on missile defense, and to look at additional options to better defend Guam. Furthermore, the NDAA included a $73 million Missile Defense Agency Unfunded requirement to initiate a missile defense tracking system. “Last year, my Senate colleagues and I – working with the Administration – led the effort to dramatically bolster and advance our country’s missile defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “This year, we continue this effort by authorizing the full development and deployment of a space-based sensor layer and continuing the process of readying our defenses – and those of our allies – against an ever-evolving missile threat. Given the threats, we need a better missile defense to protect Americans, our deployed forces, and our allies. And once again the Senate Armed Services Committee – working in bipartisan fashion – is stepping up to lead this critical missile defense effort.” Indo-Pacific Leadership: As a recognized leader on Indo-Pacific issues, Senator Sullivan, using his position on the Senate Armed Services Committee, continued to work to shape our country’s focus in the Indo-Pacific. Among the six provisions the Senator was able to secure was a reaffirmation of the importance of U.S. forces on the Korea Peninsula, a Statement of Policy of Freedom of Navigation, and language reinforcing the 2017 National Security Strategy and 2018 National Defense Strategy’s focus on allies and partnerships. “As I’ve long been saying, the Indo-Pacific is critically important to our national security and to security across the globe. From the rise of China, to instability from North Korea, to the emergence of India, this year’s defense authorization continues to focus our nation’s attention on this critical region,” said Senator Sullivan. “In this bill, I worked to include language to double-down on our strategic alliances and partnerships with nations like Japan, to reaffirm our enduring commitment to U.S. presence in South Korea, and to expand our rapidly growing relationship with India. These provisions aim to show all of our allies and partners that the U.S. has been, is now, and will long continue to be an Indo-Pacific power for decades to come.” Alaska Specific Items: Alaska MILCON: The FY19 NDAA authorizes $286.8 million for Alaska military construction. Alaska and the KC-46: Given Alaska’s status as the hub of combat airpower – with incoming F-35A squadrons, a large F-22 presence, and other strategically located aviation assets – these amendments express that the Air Force should, in the short-term, study the possibility of increasing the tanker mission at Eielson AFB due to increase requirements and, in the long-term, take a hard look at basing the OCONUS KC-46A at a strategically-located installation with abundant training opportunities – like Alaska. Cold Weather Training: Requires the Department of Defense to analyze current and future cold weather training requirements for all four services and to look for opportunities to expand cold weather training. Notably, this provision requires an analysis of potential cold weather amphibious landing locations for live fire exercises. Advocate for the Arctic: Strongly urges the Department of Defense finally designate primary responsibly for Arctic defense issues to a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense. U.S. Navy Icebreaker Requirements: Requires the Secretary of the Navy to inform the U.S. Coast Guard what equipment they plan to install on the new Polar, Heavy-class Icebreakers. Innovative Readiness Training: This amendment supports funding future local reserve training projects in Alaska, including Operation Arctic Care, which provides roving medical and dental care to Rural Alaska villages. Kodiak Spaceport: Given the importance of assured access to space to U.S. national security, this amendment highlights and encourages expanding the Department of Defense’s and the Missile Defense Agency’s use of FAA-licensed spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak Island, as a vital part of our space and missile-defense test missions. Arctic Search and Rescue: The Alaska National Guard independently developed an Arctic search and rescue package that allows them to respond to potential large-scale mass-casualty events in the Arctic. This amendment brings attention to that effort and encourages the DOD to provide additional resources to field and expand Arctic search and rescue capabilities. SUSV Replacement: This amendment requires the Department of Defense to conduct a DoD-wide operational needs review and to consider granting rapid acquisition authorities to procure a replacement to the SUSV. ###
05.23.2018	05.23.18 Senate Sends VA Modernization and Reform Bill to President’s Desk Sullivan works to ensure “bill properly recognizes that Alaska’s VA system has and continues to be unique.” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today voted in support of the VA MISSION Act, which now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. The legislation, which received overwhelming support from Veteran Service Organizations and a bipartisan majority of the House and Senate, works to modernize and reform the Department of Veterans’ Affairs care delivery systems, expand resources for our nation’s veterans and ensure services are available when and where our veterans’ need them: “The VA MISSION Act importantly modernizes the way the VA approaches healthcare. It’s built on the idea – one that we continue to champion in Alaska – that no matter where our veterans live they have the right to prompt, quality care close to home. The focus of this legislation is on safeguarding efficient, timely and quality care; and giving our veterans access to improved services like telemedicine, family caregiver programs, and opioid treatment,” said Senator Sullivan. “Throughout this process, I worked to ensure this bill properly recognizes that Alaska’s VA system has and continues to be unique. Building upon the lessons learned from the failed implementation of the VA Choice Act in 2015, we fought hard to protect the progress made in Alaska in recent years – including efforts to pull scheduling back to Alaskans within the VA, allow for the continuation of very successful tribal sharing agreements; and ensuring community providers in Alaska are fairly compensated at rates reflecting the high cost of healthcare in our state. While many of these solutions we done administratively, it was imperative to solidify them into law. “As a nation, we owe our veterans and their families a great deal of gratitude and debt. This bill is a small step in the right direction to ensure our VA is responsive to their needs, accountable for their actions and prepared to fulfill this nation’s promises. While there is never a perfect solution, this legislation is built around an overwhelming belief that our veterans should be receiving the best care available to them,” Senator Sullivan concluded. Serving Our Rural Veterans Act Additionally, language authored by Senator Sullivan – the Serving our Rural Veterans Act – to create a VA Residency Pilot Program was also included in the bill. During former Undersecretary Shulkin’s visit to Alaska in 2015, he praised the concept of expanding upon community partnerships through residency programs at rural tribal healthcare facilities that serve our veterans. Unfortunately, many rural states like Alaska, do not have medical schools that draw young talent to their healthcare systems, resulting in a chronic shortage of physicians ready to serve the community. This pilot program aims to incentivize young physicians to conduct their residencies in rural states like Alaska with low physician populations, in the hopes that they will remain and become a part of the greater healthcare system that serve our veterans on a daily basis. Additional Background: Senate Sullivan worked to protect Alaska’s unique healthcare system by advocating for and authoring a number of important provisions within the VA MISSION Act. Those efforts include: Extending funding for the current Veterans Choice Program for one year as this new program is rolled out. Continuing access to community care for Alaska and other states (HI, NH) that do not operate a full-service facility in the state a veteran resides. Removing bureaucratic red tape by authorizing local provider agreements to meet veterans’ needs for care in the community. Continuation of Tribal Sharing Agreements: If care isn’t readily available from the VA or a network provider, the department can enter into “Veterans Care Agreements” to furnish services through other providers and state veterans homes. A program that provides for the innovative partnerships between Alaska’s IHS providers and the VA. Creating standards for timely payment to community care providers, which works to address the problems experienced by both providers who were not getting paid for their services and veterans who were getting hounded by tax collectors. Alaska Fee Schedule: The VA would reimburse community providers at rates set by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). However, different rates could be paid to providers serving veterans in Alaska to account for the high-cost of providing care. CLICK HERE for additional information on the VA MISSION Act. ###
05.22.2018	05.22.18 Alaska Delegation Supports Administration’s Proposal to Reverse Federal Takeover of State Hunting Regulations Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statement after the Alaska Region of the National Park Service (NPS) proposed to amend its regulations for sport hunting and trapping on national preserves in Alaska. Under the proposed rule, the 2015 regulations will be removed to establish better consistency with the State of Alaska’s regulations. “Congress explicitly provided Alaska with the authority to manage its fish and wildlife in three separate laws—the Alaska Statehood Act, the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, and the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act,” Murkowski said. “This is clearly our right and our responsibility, and Alaskans take that very seriously. I thank the administration for recognizing this and working to properly align federal regulations.” “I join countless Alaskans in welcoming this announcement, which begins the necessary process of reversing an unlawful regulatory action by the National Park Service and restoring the unique management relationship between Alaska and the federal government,” Sullivan said. “This is a victory not only as a matter of principle, but as a matter of states’ rights and the future of Alaska’s proven, science-based wildlife management strategies. Congress sent a powerful message last year with the passage and enactment of H.J. Res. 69 – which overturned a similarly overreaching rule by the Fish and Wildlife Service – that Alaskans are not going to accept this attack on our unique game management authority, guaranteed and protected in both the Alaska Statehood Act and the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. Today, we stand united – along with the State of Alaska and the Department of Interior – that the policies of the previous administration were a bridge too far and inconsistent with the law and the health of Alaska’s wildlife and ecosystems.” “This is a long-awaited and welcomed announcement from the National Park Service (NPS). I am pleased by this decision to correct an illegal Obama-era power grab,” Young said. “Just last year, my bill H.J. Res. 69 was signed into law and it overturned a similar rule from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service which violates Alaska’s rights. As an avid hunter and former trapper myself, I know the importance of returning the authority back to the state instead of unelected bureaucrats. I applaud NPS for this decision which will ensure that Alaska continues to have control and management authority over fish and wildlife on all lands within the state.” The proposed rule was published today in the Federal Register, and opens a 60-day public comment period. This rule applies only to the national preserves in Alaska, not national parks. National preserves in Alaska are open to sport hunting, while parks are closed to hunting. The proposed rule will not impact national parks in Alaska. Click here for more information on the proposed rule. ###
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Sullivan Supports Confirmation of Gina Haspel for CIA Director Highlights Her Distinguished Career in Speech on the Senate Floor Speech WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today voted in support of Gina Haspel to become the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) – the first women and first career member of the CIA to do so. “I was proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to confirm the first woman who will have risen from the ranks of the CIA to lead the agency,” said Senator Sullivan. “Gina Haspel is known throughout the intelligence community and the national security establishment as a person of determination, intelligence and honor. I’m confident that she will lead the agency with the kind of integrity and resolve that is necessary during this time of complex global threats. She has devoted her life to our country—we are grateful and will give her all the help she needs to lead the best intelligence-gathering agency in the world.” As is customary with cabinet level officials, Senator Sullivan met with Gina Haspel (yesterday) prior to her confirmation vote. Senator Sullivan spoke on the Senate floor yesterday in support of Gina Haspel’s nomination – highlighting her distinguished career and pushing back against partisan opposition. Senator Sullivan speaking in support of Gina Haspel’s nomination on the Senate floor (click image or here to watch). Floor Speech Highlights Distinguished Career: “She has done an outstanding job at the CIA. She began working at the CIA in 1985 during the closing days of the Cold War. She was stationed literally all over the world--in Africa, for example. She recruited and handled agents and survived a coup d'etat. She worked with government partners during the first gulf war. She ran different CIA stations around the world. She started with the Counterterrorism Center at the CIA on September 11, 2001, and essentially has spent her life since that time focusing on keeping our country safe.” Executing Her Duties: “Members of the clandestine service were going out and risking their lives, being told to do something by the government, being told it was legal to do something by the government, being encouraged by Members of this body and the House to go do it, and now that one of them has risen through the ranks, with a stellar career, we are going to have Members come to the floor and say: No, we are going to consider her not qualified because she was a GS-15 and didn't design the program during this very, very difficult and challenging time in American history. If you don't think that breeds cynicism or if you don't think that breeds distrust between the Congress and the intelligence service, well, it does. It does.” Haspel’s Role In Enhanced CIA Interrogations after 9/11: “I certainly hope my colleagues who are looking at that period of history, looking to hold [CIA’s enhanced interrogation tactics] against her, recognize the broader context. Not only were she and the other members of the Agency asked to do that kind of work, but they were told it was important to protect the country and that it was legal. When her nomination comes to the floor tomorrow, I certainly hope my colleagues keep this all in mind, look at her broad qualifications, and vote for her to be the next CIA Director.” Senate Opposition, Hypocrisy at its Finest: “Let me just end by saying that here is how it is not supposed to work. We have a very dangerous situation, like we had after 9/11. We asked our best and brightest to risk their lives to defend this country, to do really tough operations all around the world. We go tell them to do things. This body is briefed on it. We tell them it is legal, and then later, we said: do you know what? Now we are going to hold that against you.” Thank You For Serving Your Country: “I want to thank Ms. Haspel for wanting to serve her country at the highest level, for her example, and all the other members of the CIA's clandestine services, who have been on the frontlines protecting this Nation.” ###
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Sullivan Votes Against Repeal of FCC’s Restoring Internet Freedom Order WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting against S.J. Res. 52, a Congressional Review Act resolution which would repeal the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) 2017 Restoring Internet Freedom Order. “I have consistently stated to Alaskans that I strongly support preserving a free and open internet – and believe that keeping the internet affordable and accessible to all consumers is an essential principle in internet governance. And because there have been recent dramatic swings from the FCC on the issue, it is critical we develop a bipartisan legislative solution,” said Senator Sullivan. “S.J. Res. 52 would re-impose regulatory burdens on Alaska’s small, rural telecommunications companies, increase regulatory uncertainty and decrease much needed investment in broadband infrastructure – particularly in rural Alaska – which is already lagging behind the rest of the country. It is estimated that the 2015 FCC Order prevented improvement and expansion of services to the 39 million Americans living in rural areas across our country. “For the past three years, I have been focused on promoting policies that expand broadband investment, deployment, and accessibility for all Alaskans. S.J. Res. 52 would undermine these important objectives for Alaska, which is why I voted against it. Ultimately, today’s vote was more political theater than a serious attempt at a bipartisan solution. Going forward, I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues on a real bipartisan legislative solution that prohibits blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization of internet traffic while also encouraging innovation, promoting competition, helping spur rural broadband investment and deployment, and preserving and protecting the open internet.” BACKGROUND: Democrats have claimed without restoring the Obama-era regulations, internet speeds will dramatically slow down. This sweeping claim has already been slammed as false by a recent Washington Post fact checker. The Los Angeles Times Editorial Board has called these efforts by “Senate Democrats move to revive net neutrality rules – the wrong way.” The Wall Street Journal Editorial Board has called this CRA “A Phony Vote on Net Neutrality” Today’s vote is consistent with positions taken by Senator Sullivan in the past: Senator Sullivan Statement (December 14, 2017) on FCC’s “Restoring Internet Freedom Order” – “Now that the FCC has made its determination, I support efforts by Chairman Thune and members of the Senate Commerce Committee to pursue bipartisan legislation to ensure net neutrality principals – including protections against discriminatory practices – are codified into law. The FCC’s actions, which appropriately return regulatory authority of the Internet back to the Federal Trade Commission, represent what I believe to be a respect for the rule of law and an understanding that the FCC is authorized to act only within the bounds of the laws passed by Congress. For decades, the Internet grew and thrived, and access increased for tens of millions of Americans under a ‘light touch’ regulatory framework that had strong bipartisan support. As we move forward, I am committed to working in that same manner to ensure the Internet can remain fair, open, and accessible – and expansion can continue across rural Alaska – while still allowing for robust innovation.” Statement to Media (November 22, 2017) on Net Neutrality – “Senator Sullivan strongly supports preserving a free and open Internet, and believes that consumers should be protected against discriminatory practices such as blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization. The 2015 Open Internet Order, however, used Title II authority to subject Internet Service Providers or ISPs to an 80-year-old regulatory scheme designed to regulate telephones. Additionally, this was done as a result of the previous Administration exceeding its authority by encouraging an independent agency, the FCC, to perform a specific action. Senator Sullivan believes keeping the Internet affordable and accessible to all consumers is an essential principle in Internet governance and will continue to work with Chairman Pai, Chairman Thune and Ranking Member Nelson in his role on the Senate Commerce Committee to ensure a free and open Internet.” Senator Sullivan Statement on Facebook on FCC Net Neutrality Order (February 26, 2015) – Net Neutrality is another outrageous power-grab by the president, one that will stifle innovation and competition, and lead to more costly service for the consumer. As FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai recently put it: “President Obama’s plan marks a monumental shift toward government control of the Internet… It gives the FCC the power to micromanage virtually every aspect of how the Internet works.” That's terrifying. I’ll work hard with my colleagues on the Commerce Committee to ensure that that the internet remains free from stifling government overregulation. ###
05.15.2018	05.15.18 Sullivan Joins Colleagues in Urging Action To Break Through Confirmation Backlog & Avoid Last-Minute Funding Battles WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today participated in an event with U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Mike Lee (R-UT) and Mike Rounds (R-SD) urging the Senate to confirm President Trump’s nominees and avoid last-minute funding battles, even if this requires working nights, weekends, and through the August state work period to get it done. “By any measure, what’s going on with the Democrats is historic obstructionism…,” said Senator Sullivan, who successfully co-championed a similar effort in 2017. “There’s another story here, and that’s the budget. The budget process is clearly broken. We want to build on the process and break the logjam on nominees. If we need more time to get the nominees done and get the budget done in the right way, which it hasn’t been done for decades, then we can create more time.” Senator Sullivan along with 15 other U.S. Senators are asking Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to expedite floor consideration of funding bills and nominees in order to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. Senator Sullivan speaks on the need to continue positive work on behalf of the American people (click image or here to watch) Senator Highlights: U.S. Senator Perdue: “President Trump tweeted over the weekend that if we get to August and haven’t funded the government, then we need to stay here and get this done. He said a few weeks ago that he never wants to sign another bill like the omnibus again. I think that comment speaks for itself loud and clear. This is nothing more than an effort to make our government work again.” U.S. Senator Ernst: “Our constituents deserve better than this cycle of governing from crisis to crisis. If Congress hasn’t passed a budget and regular appropriations bills by August, we shouldn’t be able to go home. We should be working nights. We should be working weekends. We should be working through August, and any other state work period to pass these appropriations bills and get our nominations done in a timely manner…We have made a commitment to our constituents, and we need to see that through.” U.S. Senator Lee: “At the rate were going right now, some have said it would take a decade for this administration to be fully staffed. We have to be willing to stay for the weekends and not adjourn for the week, or for much longer periods of time... I think the American people can expect more, and they can expect much better.” U.S. Senator Cassidy: “We think we’ve been successful, but we can go from success to greater success…This will allow us more time to review [a spending bill] as opposed to it being dropped in our laps and saying we are voting tomorrow.” U.S. Senator Daines: “Congress is not getting the people’s business done and not getting it done on time. This is because great obstruction is going on right now in this Congress. It is time to move beyond that and finish the work that the people sent us here to do. It’s time to cancel the August recess, keep members here, get the spending bills passed, get President Trump’s nominees through the Senate, and work on behalf of the American people.” U.S. Senator Rounds: “We’re $20 trillion in debt. When we go home and ask people what they think about it, they want to know why we’re not doing our job…I want to thank Senator Perdue for taking the lead on this again this year, two years in a row. You see a lot of the same faces up here, but our team is growing in size and saying to leadership ‘we want to be a tool that you can use to push the issue of getting things done.’” ###
05.14.2018	05.14.18 Sullivan Joins Colleagues in Urging FCC to Expand Rural Health Program FCC’s Rural Health Care Program Hasn’t Seen Funding Increase in More than 20 Years WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined a bipartisan group of 30 U.S. Senators in urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to increase the funding cap for a program aimed at improving the quality of health care available to patients in rural areas. In a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, the Senators highlight the need to strengthen the Rural Health Care (RHC) Program to address the shortage of broadband connectivity for rural health care providers. The program has been improving the quality of health care available in rural America since 1997, but has never seen a funding increase despite increased demand. “In 2016, for the first time ever, the demand for RHC funding exceeded the cap and funding to recipients was reduced by 7.5 percent,” the Senators wrote. “Further, it was recently announced that RHC applicants will suffer a devastating cutback in funding of 16 to 26 percent in funding year 2017 because of continued growth in demand. Unless the spending cap is raised appropriately to account for current needs and future growth, health care providers in rural areas will encounter severe rate increases for their broadband services, making it even harder for rural health care practitioners to engage in life-saving telemedicine.” Click here for the full text of the letter to Chairman Pai. Heitkamp was joined in sending the letter by U.S. Senators John Hoeven (R-ND), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Bob Casey (D-PA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Shelley Capito (R-WV), Angus King (I-ME), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tina Smith (D-MN), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jon Tester (D-MT), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Gary Peters (D-MI), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Tom Udall (D-NM), Doug Jones (D-AL), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), and Joe Donnelly (D-IN). ###
05.11.2018	05.11.18 Sullivan and Senate Colleagues Push To Avoid Last-Minute Funding Battles “We stand ready to break through the confirmation backlog and get the government funded before we break in August” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week joined 15 of his Senate colleagues, including U.S. Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Roger Wicker (R-MS), in authoring a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell requesting expedited floor consideration on funding bills and President Trump’s nominees, even if the Senate must work nights, weekends, and through the August state work period to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. “We stand ready to break through the confirmation backlog and get the government funded before we break in August, well before the September 30 deadline,” said the senators. “We stand ready to work Mondays and Fridays, nights as well as weekends, to ensure the funding process is not used to jam the President with a bad spending deal. We, and the American people, expect Congress to work tirelessly to restore American greatness. The President has outlined an agenda that will unleash economic growth, strengthen our military, and rebuild our infrastructure. We play a critical role in advancing this agenda, so together let’s make Congress work again.” The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on Thursday, May 10, 2018. View the full text of the letter here. ###
05.10.2018	05.10.18 Alaska Senators Welcome Selection of University of Alaska, Fairbanks as Drone Integration Pilot Program Site WASHINGTON, DC – Alaska Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski welcomed yesterday’s announcement from the U.S. Department of Transportation naming the University of Alaska, Fairbanks (UAF) as one of 10 sites nationwide selected for the highly competitive Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration Pilot Program (IPP). The newly created program serves an opportunity for state, local, and tribal governments to partner with private sector entities to accelerate the safe UAS integration in American airspace. UAF was selected out of 149 applications submitted to the DOT. Members of the Alaska Center for Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integration Team in Washington, DC for the DOT IPP Announcement. “Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), or drones, continue to be used for variety of purposes in Alaska and across the country, including for pipeline safety, innovation within the oil and gas sector, and numerous other recreational and commercial activities,” said Senator Dan Sullivan, a member of the U.S. Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. “Because of the enormous role aviation plays in Alaska, particularly with our diverse geography and enormous airspace, we have long led the way in developing innovative measures and partnerships to ensure our aviation systems are safe, reliable and accessible for all users. Today’s announcement is a positive step to ensuring the development and advancement of the rules governing UAS are made with the input, real-world applications and knowledge of Alaskan stakeholders. I commend UAF for their continued work to safeguard our skies and thank the Department of Transportation and FAA for recognizing the enormous benefit Alaska serves in developing the nation’s aviation sector.” “I offer my sincerest congratulations to UAF for being chosen as one of 10 sites nationwide for this extremely competitive pilot program. Unmanned aerial systems are game changers, allowing businesses and governments to overcome geographical challenges and a lack of infrastructure. Alaska is leading cutting edge drone technology development and today’s announcement will enable UAF to continue to build upon that innovative work. What’s being developed at UAF is the foundation for safe, reliable use of drones all over the U.S. as they become integrated into wider public use,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “I’m encouraged by the work that the Center of Excellence is pioneering regarding drone surveillance in rural Alaska, so we can inspect and monitor everything from sea ice conditions to critical infrastructure. This program will allow drone inspections to be used to improve safety and maintenance needs in incredible ways, allowing us to approach real time incident response.” “We’ve got to create a path forward for the safe integration for drones if our country is going to remain a global aviation leader and reap the safety and economic benefits drones have to offer, “ said Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao. “And that is why on October 25th, 2017, the President directed the Department to launch a new pilot program, the Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integrated Pilot Program. It will test the safe operation of drones in a variety of conditions currently forbidden. These include the operations over the heads of people, beyond the line of site, and at night. Instead of a dictate from Washington, this program takes another approach. It allows interested communities to test drones in ways that their comfortable with. This will help demonstrate how drones can safely perform a wide range of activities at different times of the day and across a variety of locations and geographies. So when the department put out a request for applications for this program, the response from communities all across the country was overwhelming. Approximately 150 communities and their private sector partners applied. Now, we went looking for good ideas and we found great ideas. The projects announced today will help open the door for drone applications in agriculture, in commerce, in healthcare, in emergency response, disaster assistance and even human transportation.” Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao speaking at today’s UAS Integration Pilot Program Announcement (click image or here to watch). The Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Integration Pilot Program (IPP) was established by presidential memorandum in October 2017. The order called for the Secretary of Transportation to enter into at least five agreements with State, local or tribal governments to further test, expand and accelerate safe UAS integration. The program will help the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) craft new enabling rules that allow more complex low-altitude operations by: Identifying ways to balance local and national interests related to UAS integration Improving communications with local, state and tribal jurisdictions Addressing security and privacy risks Accelerating the approval of operations that currently require special authorizations. The Program is expected foster a meaningful dialogue on the balance between local and national interests related to UAS integration, and provide actionable information to the USDOT on expanded and universal integration of UAS into the National Airspace System. ###
05.09.2018	05.09.18 Alaska Senators Strongly Supports Tara Sweeney Senate Indian Affairs Committee Holds Hearing for Alaskan Nominee WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan (both R-AK) today advocated for the swift confirmation of Tara Sweeney of Alaska to be Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs at the U.S. Department of the Interior. During Tara Sweeney’s nomination hearing in the Indian Affairs Committee, of which Senator Murkowski is a member, the Alaska senators offered their congratulations and full support for her nomination. Once confirmed, Sweeney, the former co-chair of the Alaska Federation of Natives and Chairman of the Arctic Economic Council, will be the first Alaskan Native to serve in the position. “Tara brings a unique set of skills to this position, drawing from her background and upbringing. I have personally seen Tara advocate for Alaska Native rights, cultural values, and sustainable rural economics. She is an Inupiaq tribal leader and a business leader and brings so much hope and promise, not only for the people of her region, but for Alaska Natives around the state and for Indian Country as a whole,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “Tara is more than qualified for this position and is going to be the person to challenge the status quo for everyone in Indian Country. This nomination is an important step by the administration and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make history by confirming the first Alaska Native to this position.” (Click here to watch Senator Murkowski’s opening statement) “During her time leading AFN, Tara spearheaded reforms to empower Tribes. She also focused on access to capital, self-determination, technology deployment, and very critically, economic growth and good jobs in rural Alaska Native communities,” said Senator Sullivan. “These are some of the critical issues that she focused on in her many other leadership positions at organizations such as the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, the Inuit Circumpolar Conference, the National Congress of American Indians, and as Chair of the Arctic Economic Council. This is the experience and focus she will bring to all Indigenous people throughout our country. I am absolutely certain that there is no one who will work harder for the rights, for the economic empowerment, and for the culture of America’s First Peoples than Tara Sweeney.” (Click here to watch Senator Sullivan’s remarks) “I am both a product and a witness to the work of Native leaders to address the challenges that each of our communities face –including social services to protect our most vulnerable, the perpetuation of our languages and cultural practices, investments in education, housing and other infrastructure, and capacity building to develop economic opportunities at home and across the country,” said Tara Sweeney. “As Alaska Natives, like our American Indian counterparts, we are reaching for the same future, with very similar tools– tribal governments to govern our respective social needs and traditional and cultural ways, and tribal corporations, to engage in the economic opportunities of our great country…I am honored to leave my homeland for a short time to engage in public service, but perhaps most important, to support tribal nations, tribal corporations, and our tribal people all across the country.” (Click here to watch Tara Sweeney’s opening statement.) The next step in the nomination process will be a vote in the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, to be scheduled. Background: On October 17, 2017, President Trump nominated Tara Sweeney to be the Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs, one of five assistant secretaries at the Department of the Interior, reporting to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary. The Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs supports the Secretary in fulfilling the United States’ trust responsibility to federally recognized American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and villages and individual Indian trust beneficiaries, as well as in upholding the Federal-Tribal government-to-government relationship. ###
05.08.2018	05.08.18 Sullivan Statement on Iran Nuclear Deal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement: “I support the Trump administration’s actions today on the important decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal – a fundamentally flawed agreement that I opposed as a matter of both policy and process. The message we send today is that Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism and violator of human rights, should never be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon. “Moving forward, U.S. strategy towards Iran must soberly recognize the realities on the ground: Iran continues to engage in extreme and hostile behavior towards Israel and our Gulf-Arab allies, Iran continues to act as a destabilizing force in the Middle East and across the globe, and Iran has violated the spirit and what I believe to be the letter of the nuclear agreement from the very beginning. “While we work to re-impose sanctions against the Iranian regime, there may be an opportunity to revisit this agreement. But unless we see numerous improvements, including the elimination of sunset provisions, a cease in all ballistic missile activities, and legitimate efforts to address Iran’s global terrorism activities, I believe it is in America’s best interest to fully withdraw from the agreement. Until Iran starts to play a constructive role in world affairs, the United States should focus its policies on isolating and tightening sanctions on the Iranian regime. ###
05.01.2018	05.01.18 Alaska Delegation Welcomes Critical HIDTA Designation to Combat Drug Trafficking and Reduce Supply of Illegal Drugs WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation today welcomed a critical announcement by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to help facilitate greater cooperation, criminal case coordination and information sharing among local, tribal, state and federal agencies currently engaged in counter-drug trafficking operations in Alaska. The decision to designate areas surrounding Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Juneau as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) represents the first new regional HIDTA program since 2001 and makes Alaska the 50th state to be eligible for the federal grant program. “I welcome the news that Alaska will receive a HIDTA designation,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “In Alaska, much like the rest of the country, we have seen a massive spike in opioid and heroin addiction throughout the state, wreaking havoc in our communities and on our families. However, until now, Alaska was the only state in the country without a HIDTA designation. I look forward to meeting with Jim Carroll, the acting director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, who I have invited to Alaska, to talk about more ways the federal government can help Alaska. I’d also like to thank Governor Bill Walker, Public Safety Commissioner Walt Monegan, and the numerous local state and federal law enforcement entities who pulled together to submit the application to this program. Addressing this crisis will take all of us – on the federal, state and local levels – to continue to work together to find solutions.” “With opioids, methamphetamines, and other narcotics wreaking havoc in our communities, this announcement could not have come at a better time. The HIDTA program will open the door for Alaska to receive additional federal resources to bolster law enforcement and improve drug control efforts at a state and local level,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “Our state is no stranger to substance abuse or the detrimental effects that ripple into our communities. This is an encouraging step towards developing initiatives that will decrease the production and distribution of illegal drugs, to keep them off our streets and cut the issue off at the source.” “Fighting the opioid crisis in Alaska requires a unified effort from the local, state and federal level,” said Congressman Don Young. “Today, the Office of National Drug Control Policy recognized that substance abuse and drug trafficking has been, and continues to be, one of Alaska's greatest challenges. It robs us of our youth, plagues countless adults, and inflicts anguish on our families. With the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) designation, our law enforcement officers will be better equipped with the resources they need to combat this epidemic. We have an opportunity to engage our communities and confront this challenge directly. I believe this is a time Alaskans can come together to improve the future of our state and our quality of life.” “This decision enables Alaska to receive Federal resources to further the coordination and development of drug control efforts among Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers, and allow local agencies to benefit from ongoing HIDTA initiatives that are working to reduce drug trafficking across the United States,” wrote James Carroll, Deputy Director, National Drug Control Policy. “This historic designation brings the HIDTA program full circle, and they will now be located in all 50 states. The HIDTA program plays a vital role in the United States by keeping dangerous drugs off of our streets. We look forward to working with the local, tribal, state and Federal partners in Alaska to connect them with the resources they need to address the unique challenges they face.” Background: In January 2018, Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski each wrote the Office of National Drug Control Policy in support of the State of Alaska’s request for designation as a standalone High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area. The HIDTA program was created by Congress in 1988 and serves as a catalyst for coordination among Federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug trafficking regions of the United States. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug-trafficking problems and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, and distribution of drugs. Some HIDTAs across the country also work closely with local partners to reduce the demand for drugs, including public health officials that work to connect drug users to treatment, especially after an overdose. With the designation of portions of Alaska, there are 29 HIDTAs located in 50 states, as well as in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia. Additionally, Alaska currently has three Drug Free Community (DFC) support funded community coalitions located in Sitka, the Ketchikan, and Mat-Su Valley. ###
04.27.2018	04.27.18 Senator Sullivan Statement on North and South Korea Summit WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement on the summit between leaders of North and South Korea: “The dramatic news coming from the Korean Peninsula has certainly captured the attention of the United States and the world. The Trump administration’s diplomatic efforts – the U.S.-led maximum pressure campaign and sanctions placed upon North Korea by the UN Security Council – is clearly having a significant impact. While there is much more work to be done, I continue to be hopeful but cautious about what can happen. “Moving forward, it is very important to keep in mind that the North Korean leadership regime has never abided by any previous international agreement it has committed to. It is imperative that the United States reject any attempts to remove U.S troops from the Korean Peninsula as part of the upcoming negotiations between President Trump and Kim Jong Un. “American forces on the Korean Peninsula and in the broader Asia Pacific have been the linchpin of security and prosperity in the region for decades. North Korea, China and Russia have made it their goal to remove these U.S. forces. This must be a non-negotiable item. We must not trade lawfully-deployed troops on the Korean Peninsula for unlawfully-obtained nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.” ###
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Mike Pompeo as Next Secretary of State WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Co-Chair of the Senate Foreign Service Caucus and former U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs, today joined 56 of his Senate colleagues in voting to confirm CIA Director Mike Pompeo as the next Secretary of State. “I’m glad that members on both sides of the aisle came together today to vote on Mike Pompeo’s nomination for this extremely important role,” said Senator Sullivan. “Leading up to this vote, Mr. Pompeo and I had numerous constructive conversations about threats coming from North Korea, Syria and Russia and our broader foreign policy challenges. We also had very positive discussions about several Alaska-specific issues. His commitments to me included working to ensure renewal of the whaling quota for Alaska Natives of the North Slope and Bering Strait, prioritizing the marine debris issues at the State Department, and visiting Alaska. I look forward to working with Secretary Pompeo on these and many other issues, including bolstering the State Department’s relationship with Congress and identifying ways to support the professional men and women of the civil and foreign services. At a time when our country faces a wide range of global threats, I have confidence that Mr. Pompeo will lead the United States in the right direction.” ###
04.25.2018	04.25.18 Coast Guard Announces Homeporting of Fast Response Cutters (FRC) and Patrol Boats in Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, today welcomed the U.S. Coast Guard’s announcement on the homeporting of six Fast Response Cutters (FRC) slated for Alaska and two additional patrol boats for Petersburg and Juneau. The new FRCs will be homeported in Kodiak (2), Seward (1), Sitka (1), and two previously commissioned FRCs – the USCGC John McMormick and USCGC Baily Barco – will remain stationed in Ketchikan. The decision comes following consistent pressure by the Alaska Congressional delegation to ensure new Alaska Coast Guard assets be “homeported where they can be most responsive to the needs of Alaskans and the nation.” According to the U.S. Coast Guard, recapitalizing will begin in 2023 and no assets will be decommissioned prior to the arrival of new assets. “The Coast Guard is undergoing a major recapitalization of its fleet and I’ve consistently worked to ensure this means more Coast Guard ships, aircraft, and personnel for communities across our state. As the Coast Guard Subcommittee Chairman, I continue to work to ensure we have the broadest possible search and rescue coverage, response capability, and maritime domain awareness throughout Alaskan waters,” said Senator Sullivan. “The effort to stop a potential drawdown of Alaska-based Coast Guard assets led to numerous and sometimes tense discussions. In the end, persistence and tireless advocacy – tied to a well-timed confirmation hearing of the next U.S. Coast Guard Commandant – led to this announcement. I’m pleased to see the Coast Guard has heard our message loud and clear and followed a 2-1-1-2 homeporting model for the FRCs and will deploy two additional Patrol Boats into Alaska, a decision which ensures larger mission area coverage. I’m proud to have worked with many mayors in coastal communities to ensure the Coast Guard made the appropriate investments to increase geographic coverage and ensure we can more effectively monitor our waterways and coastlines. This announcement gives many of our Southeast communities the long-term certainty they’ve been asking for and brings significant investments – in infrastructure and local housing – to our coastal communities. And frankly, we’re not done pushing the Coast Guard during their recapitalization process. In fact, we’re just beginning.” In response to a November 17, 2017 letter and relentless pressure by Senator Sullivan ahead of today’s Senate Commerce Committee vote on the next Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard announced its homeporting decision in a letter this morning. “The Coast Guard has completed an exhaustive feasibility study regarding the Alaskan patrol boat force laydown that included outreach to communities throughout coastal Alaska. Based on our study, the Coast Guard will homeport two FRCs in Kodiak, one FRC in Seward, and one FRC in Sitka in addition to the two FRCs currently homeported in Ketchikan,” wrote Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Paul F. Zukunft. “Additionally, our analysis indicated that the people of Southeast Alaska would best be served by two additional patrol boats. The Coast Guard will homeport a Coastal Patrol Boat in Petersburg and one in Juneau. This force laydown equates to 150% of the capacity provided by the Island Class patrol boats.” Last week, in a Senate Commerce Committee Hearing on the nomination of Vice Admiral Karl Schultz to be the next Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, Senator Sullivan asked for and secured certain verbal commitments, including the 2-1-1-2 homeporting model of Alaska’s FRCs and a replacement vessel for Petersburg’s decommissioning 110 foot Island Class Patrol boat. Senator Sullivan questioning nominee to serve as the next Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard (click image or here to watch) SULLIVAN: So you had expressed -- when you and I met earlier, you expressed the importance of a maximum patrol boat coverage for Alaska. Can you commit, to me, to the 2-1-1-2 home-porting model for the Fast Response Cutters? SCHULTZ: Senator, yes I can. SULLIVAN: And, I think, you and I have also talked about the community in Petersburg, Alaska and it's losing a 110 foot Island Class patrol boat. I'm concerned about the Coast Guard's ability to meet the needs of southeast Alaskans, especially in the near shore and inside passage areas where, you know, there's an enormous amount of cruise ship traffic. Do you have -- can I get your commitment to work with me and my team on my concerns that I've raised with you, with regard, to what's going on in Petersburg, Alaska, as well? SCHULTZ: Senator, you have my commitment. We talked, potentially, about some 87 foot coastal patrol boats to possibly fill some of those -- those localities that you're keenly, and others members of the Alaska delegation are interested in. ###
04.20.2018	04.20.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Dimitri Philemonof WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week honored Dimitri Philemonof, originally from St. George Island, Alaska, as part of his “Alaskan of the Week” series. Dimitri has served the people of the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands for forty years at the Aleutian Pribilof Islands Association, where he has been President and CEO since 1985. Dimitri has devoted his life to helping the people of the region heal from the wounds of WWII, when the U.S. government interned and relocated nearly 900 Aleut civilian residents of the Pribilof and the Aleutian Islands, including his parents and siblings. Senator Sullivan Honoring Dimitri Philemonof as Alaskan of the Week (click image or here to watch, click here to download video). TRIBUTE TO DIMITRI PHILEMONOF – (U.S. Senate – April 19, 2018) Mr. President, today I rise, as I like to do at the end of the week, to talk about somebody in my State who has made a real big difference to Alaska and, in many ways to the country. It is a good opportunity for me to come down on the floor and brag a little bit about Alaska, although my State does a really good job of selling itself anyway. It is what we refer to in my office as the Alaskan of the Week. It is a great opportunity to talk about not just the wonderful things we have in Alaska—the wonderful mountains, oceans, and how beautiful the State is. Right now, the Sun is out again and shining high. The snow is melting. The buds are coming out and birds are coming back. It is a good opportunity for me to talk not just about the natural wonders but the people who make Alaska such a great place. While it doesn’t get as much attention as it deserves, there is an incredibly fascinating and sometimes tragic history of my State. It is a good opportunity for me to talk to my colleagues about that and the people who have worked hard and have been part of that history and have helped to heal some of the scars that have been left from that history. Along with talking about the beauty of Alaska every week, we talk about someone who has made a difference. This week, I would like to recognize Dimitri Philemonof and all the work he has done over the decades for his community, for his State, and really for his country. Dimitri was born in 1944 to Erena and Isaac Philemonof on the breathtaking, beautiful St. George Island, one of the two principal islands of the Pribilof Islands in Alaska. Surrounded by the Bering Sea, the Pribilofs are about 750 miles from Anchorage and about 500 miles from the Siberian Coast. The Pribilofs are really one of the Wonders of the World, particularly with the nature that is there—Steller sea lions, walruses, sea otters, and tens of thousands of fur seals. Depending on the season, more than 2.5 million seabirds call the Pribilof Islands their home. The ‘‘Galapagos of the North,’’ it is sometimes called because of this teeming wildlife. You will also find in the Pribilofs the warmest, most resilient people anywhere in the world. The Pribilofs, as well as the entire Aleutian Island chain, has a storied and, to be honest, sometimes painful history in our country—a history that has shaped Dimitri’s life. First, when Alaska was a colonial possession of Russia, Russian fur seekers decimated the Aleut Native populations on these islands through warfare, disease, and, yes, even slavery. Then, 75 years after the United States purchased Alaska during World War II, Japan invaded and occupied Kiska and Attu, the westernmost islands of Alaska’s Aleutian Island chain. A lot of Americans don’t know that American territory was invaded and occupied by the Japanese during World War II. It was the first time since the War of 1812 that American soil had been occupied by an enemy. The Japanese dug in and held these two islands in Alaska until mid-1943, when American forces recaptured Kiska and Attu in a brutal campaign in the cold of Alaska. That campaign to retake Kiska and Attu resulted in the deaths of about 1,500 American servicemen. More than 600 were missing, and almost 3,500 were wounded in action. It was a major battle of World War II. Less well known is the impact this conflict had on the Aleut peoples of Alaska. As a result of the invasion, nearly 900 Aleut civilian residents of the Pribilof Islands and the Aleutian Islands in Alaska were relocated to temporary internment camps in Southeast Alaska. Among those interned were Dimitri’s parents, two of his brothers, and a sister who was born in the camp. Dimitri himself jokes and laughs that, in his words, he was actually ‘‘conceived’’ in the camp. The treatment of our American citizens—and these are great American citizens. They are patriotic. They serve in the military at higher rates than any other ethnic group in the country. The treatment of these American citizens in these camps is a dark spot in American history that not many Americans are aware of. Camps were basically abandoned buildings. The conditions were awful—crowded, unheated, and unsanitary. Some even died in the camps as a result of these horrendous conditions. These were our citizens in our country. Yet, like so many Alaskan Natives who were not treated well by our government during this time, Dimitri, nevertheless, signed up when he was of age to serve his country in the military. In the 1960s, he joined the Army and served in the Pathfinder Detachment at Fort Rucker in Alabama. He was an Airborne soldier. Eventually, Dimitri made his way back to Alaska. He met his wife Victoria and started a family. He is the proud father of five, and he began to work at the Aleutian Pribilof Islands Association. He is now the President and CEO of the Association. The association has had numerous accomplishments under his leadership. Since 1985, it has greatly expanded its programs for the people of the Pribilofs and the Aleutians, and its budget has grown from about $2.5 million to more than $18 million to fund these important service programs under his leadership. For years, he did something that was so important that this body was involved here in the Senate. He worked closely with Alaska’s congressional delegation at the time—Senator Ted Stevens, Senator Frank Murkowski, and Congressman Don Young —to work on educating the Congress and the Senate about this difficult history during World War II and to help pass legislation entitled the ‘‘Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Act,’’ which compensated surviving Aleut victims of the internment camps. Again, American citizens were sent by their government during the war to internment camps in Alaska. Not many people know that history. Dimitri not only knew it, he lived it. His family lived it, but what he did was so powerful. He helped heal it. He helped heal it right here on the floor of the Senate. He then helped pass the Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Trust to oversee money allocated to rebuild some of the buildings and houses in this part of Alaska that were destroyed during the war—in the fierce battles that raged in my State during World War II that not many Americans are aware of. That is a great life and service. Dimitri is also an artist helping to preserve Alaska Native culture through his beautiful drawings—particularly of Russian Orthodox Churches in the region—churches he has worked tirelessly to maintain throughout Alaska. These are beautiful churches. He also does an incredible Elvis Presley impersonation. He is a man of faith, of perseverance, and kindness. As I have mentioned here, and tried to highlight just a little bit of his life, he has devoted his whole life to his people, to my State, and to this great Nation. In May, he will be recognized by his colleagues for 40 years of humanitarian service and for helping heal the wounds of this country that came about during World War II. We thank him for all he has done in his beloved Pribilofs, in Alaska, in America, and on the floor of the Senate. Dimitri, I want to thank you, once again, and congratulate you on being our Alaskan of the Week. ###
04.20.2018	04.20.18 Sullivan Meets with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Nominee Ahead of Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement after meeting with Admiral Ronny Jackson, M.D., President Trump’s nominee to serve as the next Secretary for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Senator Dan Sullivan discussing Alaska’s unique veterans’ challenges and needs with Admiral Ronny Jackson, M.D. “Yesterday, I met with Admiral Jackson to discuss the many important and critical issues facing our nation’s veterans. This productive conversation focused primarily on the unique veterans challenges we face in Alaska. With the most diverse and rural state in the country, and the highest population of veterans per capita, it’s imperative that the next VA Secretary understand Alaska and the needs of our veterans,” said Senator Sullivan. “I look forward to hearing more from Admiral Jackson at his upcoming confirmation hearing, and learning about his vision for the VA and how he intends to ensure that service, care and accountability remain a top priority.” U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services Committees, continues to serve his country as a Lt. Colonel in the United States Marine Corps Reserve. ###
04.19.2018	04.19.18 Sullivan, Top Navy Leaders Agree – Next Conflict Could Be In An Arctic Region, New Strategy Needed WASHINGTON, DC – At a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) questioned Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer and U.S. Marine Corps Commandant General Robert Neller on the Navy’s capacity, capabilities and strategy to operate in the Arctic region – referencing the Arctic as “key strategic terrain,” a phrase first coined by Secretary of Defense James Mattis. Senator Sullivan Questions Navy Leaders on Arctic Strategy (click image or here to watch) Senator Sullivan, referencing the 2018 National Defense Strategy’s focus on the return to great power competition with China and Russia, questioned the witnesses about the U.S. military’s cold-weather and mountainous capabilities. He noted the last time the country faced this kind of large scale maneuver fight was during the Korean War, when the troops’ lack of readiness was a weakness. Senator Sullivan asked General Neller about the U.S. Marine Corps’ cold-weather training efforts and the opportunity for more Marines to train in Alaska, as they just did during Arctic Edge 2018. U.S. Marine Corps Commandant General Neller Addressing Sullivan’s Questions on Arctic, cold weather capabilities (click image or here to watch) General Neller affirmed that the Marines “have gotten back into the cold weather business. We can’t assume that we’re going to fight in a desert, it’s not going to be a temperate climate, it could be in an Arctic climate…we’re moving in the right direction and doing our best to get more deployments for training to Alaska to take advantage of the terrain and the climate.” Secretary of the Navy Spencer Praising Alaska’s Rich Training Opportunities (click image or here to watch) Secretary Spencer echoed General Neller’s praise for the rich training opportunities in Alaska stating, “Senator, you and I have spoken about what Alaska has to offer and, suffice it to say, I’m a bull in that regard. You have infrastructure, you have ranges, and we look forward to seeing how we can maximize that going forward.” He continued, “We’ll have the Navy’s Arctic Strategy this summer. When you see what’s going on in the Arctic, what Russia is doing, repaving 12,000 foot runways, 10,000 spetsnaz [special forces troops] up there in barracks for ‘search and rescue’…we need to have presence up there.” Secretary Spencer also pointed out a large capability gap stating, “Icebreaking is one of the complications, it’s not a mission of the Navy, but we’re working hand in hand with the Coast Guard and just finished design requirements of the next icebreaker.” Secretary Spencer, General Neller and Admiral John Richardson, chief of naval operations, testified before a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the posture of the Department of the Navy in review of the Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2019 and the Future Years Defense Program. Senator Sullivan continues to be a strong advocate for America’s Arctic capabilities, most recently through the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). In the bill he included ten Arctic-related provisions, including the authorization of a new polar-class icebreaker, an examination of ice-hardening Navy vessels, and a Department of Defense review of what forces, capabilities, infrastructure, and deep-water ports are needed to protect U.S. security interests in the Arctic region. Additionally, in the Fiscal Year 2017 NDAA, Senator Sullivan secured a provision calling for the department to report back on a new concept for a “Strategic Arctic Port” that would bolster U.S. military infrastructure to support future ice-hardened U.S. Navy Ships and/or U.S. Coast Guard heavy polar ice breakers in the Arctic region. ###
04.19.2018	04.19.18 Delegation Welcomes Coastal Plain EIS Scoping Announcement Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan and Congressman Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statement after the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) announced a 60-day public scoping period as it prepares to draft an environmental impact statement (EIS) for the Department of the Interior’s oil and gas leasing program on the Coastal Plain of ANWR. “We welcome this scoping announcement and the Department’s continued work to implement our legislation opening the Coastal Plain to responsible energy development,” the delegation said. “We appreciate the Department following the law, planning multiple public meetings with Alaskans, and moving forward on this important program to help ensure the energy and economic security of our nation.” BLM Alaska announced it will seek public comment and schedule public scoping meetings around the state in the weeks ahead. A Notice of Intent to Prepare an EIS will appear in the Federal Register this week. ###
04.13.2018	04.13.18 Sullivan Statement on Airstrikes in Syria WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today on the coordinated airstrikes in Syria: “The precision military strikes launched this evening, in partnership with our British and French allies, send a clear and concise message to the Assad regime: the use of chemical weapons will not be tolerated. This response against Syria’s chemical weapons infrastructure was both measured and warranted, and a necessary step to deter future chemical weapons attacks, whether against innocent men, women and children or our troops deployed in the Middle East. “I commend these decisive actions and offer my prayers to the brave men and women conducting these operations this evening. Moving forward, we must not only work with our NATO partners, but also our Arab and Israeli allies to develop a comprehensive and sustained strategy for advancing our immediate and long-term national security interests in Syria and the broader Middle East.” ###
04.13.2018	04.13.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: John Active WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week honored Bethel resident John Active, legendary Yup’ik storyteller and decades long voice of KYUK public media, as part of his “Alaskan of the Week” series. Sullivan Honoring John Active as Alaskan of the Week (Click image or here to watch, click here to download). TRIBUTE TO JOHN ACTIVE -- (U.S. Senate - April 12, 2018) Mr. President, every week I come to the floor to talk about my great State and a person in my State who has made a difference in their communities and in the State and sometimes throughout the entire country. I call this person our Alaskan of the Week, and it is actually one of the best things I get to do each week here in the U.S. Senate. There is a lot to brag about with regard to Alaska. Frankly, while I love my job here, I wish I were home right now. My wife is there. Although the temperatures are still only in the single digits in some places in Alaska, particularly up north, springtime, which we call breakup in Alaska, has hit much of our State. I will admit, breakup is not always pretty. The State gets a lot of snow--dirty, melting snow. There is sloshing through the slush and big, huge puddles everywhere. But the sun is now high in the sky and staying up longer and longer every day. Birds are migrating back by the tens of thousands, and the excitement of spring is everywhere. You can feel it and sense it. The changing of the seasons is no more extreme and no more profound than in Alaska, where the weather, hunting, and passing on of traditions and culture are literally a way of life for many. Today, what I would like to do is take you to Bethel, AK--a town of about 6,000 people about 400 miles west of Anchorage, which is in the full throws of breakup--in order for the Presiding Officer and everyone watching to meet our Alaskan of the Week, Mr. John Active. John is an extraordinary Alaskan who has spent decades, season after season, on the radio, telling stories and passing on traditions helping to keep the Yup'ik culture of Alaska alive. John, who is 70 years old, has lived a storied life, which began in a village outside of Bethel. Unfortunately, after he was born his mother passed away, and his father couldn't care for him, so he was adopted by James and Elsie Active and brought to live in Bethel. His grandmother, Maggie Lind, was a well-known storyteller, and John's childhood was filled with stories about Yup'ik legends, wisdom, and culture. John's experiences as he grew up led him to an incredibly important vocation--translating his native language into English. You might ask: Translating? Well, yes, that is actually very important in Alaska. You see, we have about 20 different indigenous languages still spoken by the Native peoples of my great State, and throughout my great State thousands of Alaskans literally speak these languages. During John's senior year of high school, he worked for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. He was able to travel to different villages translating the Yup'ik language and helping applicants fill out paperwork for housing, which was great training for the rest of his life. He also became passionate about the news and spreading the news. In the 1970s, KYUK--Bethel's new local public radio and television shows, which are so important to get the word out in these smaller communities--was born, and John was there as one of the very first Yup'ik language broadcasters. Many people in the area, particularly the elders, still read and speak only in Yup'ik. John was so intent on letting them know what was happening in the world in the early days that he would wait for the cargo plane to arrive from Anchorage to grab the Anchorage Daily News, the daily newspaper, and rush into the radio station to simultaneously translate the news from English into Yup'ik as he read it. There are very few people in the world who can simultaneously translate English to Yup'ik. Among many other challenges, there simply aren't Yup'ik words for some English words. Take, for example, the word ``computer'' and what a computer does. It can take an entire paragraph in Yup'ik to explain that. When a bank was trying to inform Alaskans in the region about home loans, John found that it could take an entire paragraph to translate the phrase ``home equity'' into Yup'ik. So he had a really hard job, but he did it really, really well. Over the years, John became known for starting his newscast with a short Yup'ik story. These were stories that he had learned from his grandmother, such as, “How the Fox Turned Red” and “How the Crane Got Its Blue Eyes”'--stories that were eventually broadcast around the State. Some of them were even picked up by National Public Radio for the country. He also became a columnist for the Anchorage Daily News and other papers across Alaska, sharing the stories of his ancestors and his humorous views on the world. It is such a delight to listen to him and to read his stories. He has become a beloved figure throughout Alaska. But John's work goes way beyond entertainment. His work goal has been to preserve the Yup'ik language, which goes hand in hand with preserving the Yup'ik culture. It is so vitally important in our State where, as I have mentioned, we have 20 indigenous languages. Not a lot of people know that. In the not-so-distant past, unfortunately, Alaska Natives were discouraged, and sometimes even punished, for speaking in their native languages. Now, however, there are more and more efforts, encouraged by people like John Active and by KYUK, to help keep native languages and the cultures that belong to them alive and thriving. For example, my wife Julie is now taking classes in Koyukon, her family's native language. John also wants to spread not just the culture but the values of the Yup'ik community--in his words, to “Yup'ify” Alaska and the world. With the help of KYUK, the amazing station that serves over 22,000 predominantly Yup'ik residents in this region of Alaska, he and his other cohosts have been able to do that. “There are so many people in this region who can understand what we're saying,” John said. ``I feel it makes them proud to hear their language being spoken over the airwaves. ..... I am helping to keep the language and culture alive.'' March 30 was John's last show on KYUK. He is now taking a well-deserved retirement, but his legacy and the radio's commitment to their Yup'ik culture continues. KYUK will continue to be a pioneer in bringing 1 hour a day of local news in the Yup'ik language and 5 1/2 hours a week of Yup'ik public affairs and talk shows, all in the language of the region. I want to thank KYUK for being a pioneer in bringing bilingual content to Alaskans and public broadcasting, and, of course, I want to thank John for being one of the major conduits for that pioneering work. Your work, John, has touched so many, and you have certainly done your part to serve your fellow Alaskans while “Yup'ifying” the State, the country, and even the world. So thanks, and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. ###
04.10.2018	04.10.18 Senator Sullivan: 5 Questions to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined members of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees for a 5 hour long hearing with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg entitled: “Facebook, Social Media Privacy, and the Use and Abuse of Data.” During his five minute opportunity to question Mr. Zuckerberg, Sullivan asked a wide range of questions surrounding Facebook’s market dominance. Senator Sullivan Questioning Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg (click image or here to watch, click here to download). 1) Only in America? The Answer is Yes SULLIVAN: Mr. Zuckerberg. Quite a story right – dorm room to the global behemoth that you guys are. Only in America, would you agree with that?" ZUCKERBERG: Senator, mostly in America. SULLIVAN: You couldn’t do this in China, right? What you did in 10 years? ZUCKERBERG: Well Senator, there are some very strong Chinese internet companies. SULLIVAN: Right, but…you’re supposed to answer yes to this question. Ok, come on I’m trying to help you. I mean give me a break. You’re in front of a bunch of Senators. The answer is yes, ok. 2) Is Facebook Too Powerful? SULLIVAN: You have talked about a lot of power. You’ve been involved in elections…You’re really all over the world. Facebook – 2 billion users, over 200 million Americans, $40 billion in revenue. I believe you and Google have almost 75% of the digital advertising in the U.S. One of the key issues here, is Facebook too powerful? Are you too powerful? Do you think you’re too powerful? ZUCKERBERG: Senator, I think most of the time when people talk about our scale they’re referencing that we have 2 billion people in our community. And I think one of the big questions that we need to think through here is the vast majority of those 2 billion people are outside of the U.S. And I think that is something – to your point – that Americans should be proud of. And when I brought up the Chinese companies, I think that that’s a real strategic and competitive threat that an American technology policy should be thinking about. 3) What Are Thoughts on the Instinct to Regulate or Break Up Companies of this Size? SULLIVAN: When you look at the history of this country and you look at the history of these kinds of hearings… When companies become big and powerful, and accumulate a lot of wealth and power, what typically happens from this body is there’s an instinct to either regulate or break up, right?…Do you have any thoughts on those two policy approaches? ZUCKERBERG: Well Senator, I’m not the type of person who thinks that all regulation is bad. So I think the internet is becoming increasingly important in people’s lives and I think we need to have a full conversation about what is the right regulations, not whether it should be or shouldn’t be. 4) Does Regulating Facebook Cement its Position as a Dominant Power? SULLIVAN: One of my worries on regulation, again with a company of your size. You’re saying, “hey we might be interested in being regulated.” But as you know regulations can also cement the dominant power…You look at what happened with Dodd-Frank. That was supposed to be aimed at the big banks, the regulations ended up empowering the big banks and keeping the small banks down. Do you think that’s a risk given your influence that if we regulate we’re actually going to regulate you into a position of cemented authority when one of my biggest concerns about what you guys are doing is that the next Facebook, which we all want, the guy in the dorm room, we all want that… that you are becoming so dominate that we’re not able to have that next Facebook. What are your views on that? ZUCKERBERG: Well Senator, I agree with the point that when you’re thinking through regulation across all industries you need to be careful that it doesn’t cement in the current companies that are winning. 5) Are you a Tech Company or a Publisher? SULLIVAN: You mention you’re a tech company, a platform, but there are some who are saying you are the world’s biggest publisher. I think about 140 million get their news from Facebook… You said you are responsible for your content. So which are you, are you a tech company or are you the world’s largest publisher? Because I think that goes to a really important question on what form of regulation or government action, if any, we would take. ZUCKERBERG: Senator this is a really big question. I view us as a tech company, because the primary thing that we do is build technology and product. SULLIVAN: But you said you are responsible for your content, which makes you kind of a publisher, right? ZUCKERBERG: Well I agree that we’re responsible for the content, but we don’t produce the content. When people ask us if we're a media company or publisher, my understanding of what the heart of what they’re really getting at is: Do we feel responsibility for the content on our platform? The answer to that I think is clearly yes. But I don't think that's incompatible with, fundamentally at our core, being a technology company. ###
04.10.2018	04.10.18 Sullivan Congratulates Jon Katchen on Nomination to US District Court in Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today congratulated Jon Katchen on his nomination to the U.S. District Court for the District of Alaska by President Donald J. Trump: “I congratulate Jon Katchen on being nominated to serve on the federal bench for the District of Alaska. Jon and I worked closely together for more than three years at both the Alaska Department of Law and the Alaska Department of Natural Resources,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “I witnessed firsthand his commitment and ability to resolve complex legal matters with profound legal implications for our state. Jon will make an exceptional jurist who will faithfully apply the law and uphold the Constitution.” In January 2017, Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski solicited potential applications to succeed Senior U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline. After a thorough review process, the Senators submitted several well-qualified candidates to the White House, who ultimately made the final decision. Jon Katchen is currently of counsel in the Anchorage office of Holland & Hart, where his practice focuses on commercial and natural resources litigation, including oil and gas law. Prior to joining Holland & Hart in 2017, Mr. Katchen practiced for five years in the Anchorage office of Crowell & Moring LLP. From 2010 through 2012, he served as the Intergovernmental Coordinator for the State of Alaska’s Department of Natural Resources, where he managed the agency’s administrative appeals and litigation, and provided counsel to the Commissioner. He also served as Special Assistant to the Attorney General of Alaska, as an Assistant Attorney General in the Oil, Gas & Mining Section, and as a litigation associate in private practice. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Katchen served as a law clerk to Judge Maryanne Trump Barry on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Mr. Katchen earned his B.A., cum laude, and his M.A., from Boston College, and his J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law. ###
04.09.2018	04.09.18 Alaska Delegation Bill Works to Protect Alaska Native Whaling Quota WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation recently introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to authorize the Secretary of Commerce to preserve the bowhead whale subsistence harvest and Alaska Native food security under U.S. law if the International Whaling Commission (IWC) fails to act on bowhead whale quota during their September 2018 meeting in Florianopolis, Brazil. The legislation – the Whaling Convention Amendments Act of 2018 – is led by Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Oceans, Atmosphere, Science and Coast Guard Subcommittee, and cosponsored by Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). Alaska Congressman Don Young has sponsored companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Subsistence whaling is critical to the food security and cultural fabric of Alaska’s North Slope and Bering Strait communities,” said Senator Sullivan. “Captains of the various whaling crews in our villages are revered community leaders, apprenticing for decades before earning the honor of leading a crew. Marrying the modern and traditional worlds in hunts, these whaling crews go to great lengths to put traditional food on the table and to keep their culture alive. The Whaling Convention Amendments Act of 2018 will allow the Secretary of Commerce to act on behalf of Alaska Native communities only if the IWC fails to act on U.S. bowhead quota, ensuring this way of life continues.” “The whale has sustained a people, and a culture in Alaska for centuries. Whaling crews share their bounty, providing food security for entire communities. Preserving the right for bowhead whale subsistence harvests is not just about physical sustenance or food security. This is an integral part of who many indigenous Alaskans are as people,” said Senator Murkowski. “Through my role as an appropriator, I have worked to support, with directed funding, the study of bowhead whale health for efficient and humane subsistence harvest ahead of upcoming International Whaling Commission meetings. It’s imperative that we ensure this way of life for Alaska Native communities continues.” “This bill is a safeguard for Alaska Natives, many of whom rely on subsistence whaling, and it protects their way of life,” said Congressman Young. “The IWC has 87 countries divided almost evenly between whaling and non-whaling countries. This often leads to votes and decisions that are based on the politics of appeasing groups that do not understand subsistence rather than on science. The right of Alaska Natives to hunt marine mammals has been recognized by the IWC, but subsistence whaling has been caught up in such a political fight. For those Alaska Native communities that practice subsistence whaling, this is an integral part of their culture, heritage, and well-being and it must be defended.” Background: On October 31, 2017, Senator Sullivan chaired an Oceans, Atmosphere, Science and Coast Guard Subcommittee hearing entitled “Exploring Native American Subsistence Rights and International Treaties.” In June 2016, Senator Sullivan gave a speech on the Senate floor about Alaska’s unique whaling culture. Worldwide whale stocks are managed through the International Whaling Commission, a group of 88 countries that have ratified the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The Whaling Convention Act of 1949 is the relevant U.S. implementing legislation. The Convention allows for the harvest of certain whale species for nations that certify either a cultural or subsistence need for their aboriginal population. Russia, Denmark (for Greenland), the United States, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines are those nations who currently practice Aboriginal Subsistence Whaling (ASW). From time-to-time, the Commission renews ASW quota. However, due to increased polarization at the IWC due to unrelated disputes regarding commercial and scientific whaling, in recent years, ASW communities have seen their quota used as a bargaining chip or outright rejected—all despite no objection by the IWC’s Scientific Committee The aboriginal subsistence harvest in Alaska is sustainable, and non-commercial. The number of bowheads is consistently increasing and may now be at levels not seen since the dawn of the 20th Century. The International Whaling Commission has consistently certified that the biological status of our bowheads is sustainable. ###
03.29.2018	03.29.18 Sullivan Statement on President Trump’s Infrastructure Speech WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation and Environment and Public Works Committees, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s infrastructure speech today in Ohio. “I applaud President Trump and his administration’s continued focus and commitment on infrastructure – which I believe presents our nation with significant bipartisan opportunities – especially as it relates to permitting reform and growing our economy,” said Senator Sullivan. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Trump administration and my colleagues in the Senate on advancing an infrastructure plan this year, because every day we spend fighting the overwhelming government bureaucracy needed to move forward on commonsense projects to fix our roads, bridges and water systems and build out our energy resources and grid, is another day in which opportunities for economic growth are missed and our nation’s crumbling infrastructure gets worse.” In 2017, Senator Sullivan introduced the Rebuild America Now (RAN) Act – legislation that provides a sound and detailed blueprint for fixing America’s broken public-works and environmental review and permitting processes. That bill – much of which is reflected in the Trump administration’s proposal – provides realistic deadlines for environmental reviews, streamlines our outdated permitting process and limits unnecessary and frivolous delays. ###
03.29.2018	03.29.18 Sullivan Statement on VA Secretary WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement that he will be nominating Admiral Ronny Jackson to replace Dr. David Shulkin as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. “I wish to thank Dr. Shulkin for his service and commitment to our veterans and our nation – the Secretary of the VA is one of the most challenging jobs in Washington,” said Senator Sullivan. “As part of his confirmation process in 2015, I invited Dr. Shulkin to Alaska so that he could see and hear from Alaska veterans, and understand the barriers and unique challenges of our state. That visit, where he met with hundreds of Alaskan veterans, instilled in him a commitment to focus on Alaska issues. I will certainly be looking for and requiring that same level of attention and focus on Alaska’s unique needs from President Trump’s new nominee, Admiral Jackson. “In the coming weeks I look forward to meeting Admiral Jackson and learning more about his management experience and vision that will enable him to run one of the largest, most important and at times most frustrating and difficult bureaucracies in the federal government. Alaskan veterans should know that I will continue to hold the VA accountable until each and every Alaskan veteran gets the healthcare and benefits they earned and deserve.” U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) is the only current member of the U.S. Senate who serves on the Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, while also continuing his own military service as a Lt. Colonel in the United States Marine Corps Reserve.
03.23.2018	03.23.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Carlos Gomez WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Carlos Gomez, a relentless advocate for disadvantaged youth hockey programs in Alaska and President of the Scotty Gomez Foundation. Carlos was honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s “Alaskan of the Week” series. Senator Sullivan Honoring Carlos Gomez as Alaskan of the Week (click image or here to watch, click here to download video). TRIBUTE TO CARLOS GOMEZ Mr. President, one of the things I enjoy doing in my duties in the Senate is to come down each week to recognize somebody special in my State--somebody who has made a difference for their community, somebody who might not get the attention that people get in the press or in other areas but someone who has really made an impact. I like to call that person our Alaskan of the Week. Right now what has been happening in Alaska is a very special time. Our State, in many ways, is shrouded with myth and mystique. We certainly have, I believe, the most beautiful State in the country. There is a lot of excitement that happens, a lot of special things. Just last week, we had 60 mushers who were being pulled by dog teams, dozens of dogs--these great athletes, as we call them--nearly 1,000 miles through some of the harshest landscapes and some of the harshest climates. We just finished the Iditarod, the last great race. We want to encourage people watching on TV and people in the Galleries to come on up to Alaska. You will love it. It will be the trip of a lifetime. Come see the Iditarod next year, the last great race. We just finished that. It is a great time to be in Alaska. It is still winter, of course. It is time to ski and for snow machines. It is still cold, and there is lots of snow, but the sun is now coming out high in the sky. Of course, in Alaska, there is hockey. We love hockey. We all know it is a tough and competitive sport, but it certainly fits into the ethos of my State. All across the State, kids and adults play hockey--boys, girls, men, and women, in indoor and outdoor rinks, ponds, and lakes--and skate up and take to the ice. However, as many parents who are involved in hockey know, gear can be very expensive. Actually, hockey can be very expensive. Many kids and adults can miss out on this great, great sport--a great sport in my State--because of the cost. I would like to introduce you to Anchorage resident Carlos Gomez, who is our Alaskan of the Week. He has dedicated an extraordinary amount of his time and his life to try to make sure that all kids in my State--boys and girls from all walks of life--get to play hockey, like so many others do in Alaska, no matter if they can afford it or not. Let me tell you about Mr. Carlos Gomez, because he is not one to brag about himself. Like most Alaskans of the Week, he is an unsung hero, doing so much for the community. His impact on hockey--particularly, for the youth of Alaska--is remarkable. In many ways, his story is truly a classic story of the American dream. Carlos was born in California. When he was 10, he and his brother went to live with an aunt in San Diego. His wife Dalia was born in Colombia and then moved to Alaska, also with an aunt, when she was just 7 years old. Carlos received a scholarship from the University of California San Diego but had to drop out and cut his studies short because the strain of both going to school and providing for his family and contributing enough for his family was very difficult. He ended up in Alaska in 1972 to work as an ironworker, where he helped to build our State. He built the Alaska pipeline during that time. It was a huge and exciting time in the State. He met his wife Dalia, as I mentioned, and they settled down in a modest home in Airport Heights, AK, and began to raise a family. They had three wonderful kids. His daughters are Monica and Natalie, and his son is Scott. All of them are great, bright kids. One of them, Scott, who we in Alaska simply call Scotty--and I will get to that--had amazing athletic talents. When Scotty was just 4 years old, Carlos took him to his first hockey game. Scotty wanted to try it himself. Soon the young boy was hooked and wanted to play hockey as often as he could, and he was good. The problem was that although they weren't poor as a family, they didn't have the extra money for all the equipment and the expense that hockey requires. The Anchorage Boys & Girls Club had a program that loaned out hockey equipment and hockey gear. They helped to utilize that. As Scotty grew, he needed more equipment, and he stayed focused on hockey. Soon Carlos, our Alaskan of the Week, became so involved in youth hockey and had such a heart for the youth who wanted to play hockey in Alaska but had difficulty affording it that he became this master fundraiser throughout Alaska for the sport, not only for his son but for all the kids in the community who wanted to play hockey across the city. Fast forward to 1998, and Scotty, his son, a 4-year-old playing hockey on ponds in Anchorage, is selected by the New Jersey Devils as their first-round draft choice--the first Latino ever drafted to be in the first round of the NHL draft. Scotty went on to become an all-star, Stanley Cup winner and a recipient of the Calder Memorial Trophy as the league's rookie of the year--all in his first NHL season. That is not bad for a little kid from Anchorage--all before he turned 21. He went on to win another Stanley Cup and later played for the New York Rangers, the Montreal Canadiens, the San Jose Sharks, the Florida Panthers, and the St. Louis Blues. He even chose to return home to Anchorage during the NHL lockout to play briefly for our very own Alaska Aces. As you can imagine, Scotty is quite popular and well-known in Anchorage. He is admired by so many, and his father is as well. He could have stopped championing, as he has done for so many years, the sport of hockey at any point along the way, but what he did was that he kept doing this. He kept working. He kept encouraging young kids in Alaska to get on the ice to achieve their goals, just like his son did. So Carlos, Scotty, and the rest of the family set up the Scotty Gomez Foundation, which is devoted to that cause, and Carlos Gomez is still running it today. There are more kids like Scotty out there, Carlos said, and ``we're going to give that kid an opportunity,'' like my son had. The foundation has done so much for youth hockey in Alaska. Thousands of kids across the State have access to gear and the ability to play this great sport that they otherwise wouldn't be able to afford. Around Anchorage's rinks, you will find the dark blue and gold gear--just like our Alaska flag--with a ram. It is the Gomez ram, and it helps kids, no matter their backgrounds or experience, get on the ice and play this great sport. The foundation has put money into rehabbing rinks, like the one in East Anchorage, which is the neighborhood outdoor rink where Scotty learned to play hockey. When the Anchorage School District dropped the girls' high school hockey in the spring of 2013, the Scotty Gomez Foundation, under Carlos's leadership, stepped up, picked up the sport for 3 years, and redeveloped it into cooperatives across Anchorage's eight public high schools. Girls' hockey in Anchorage is alive today because of Carlos Gomez and his family. Also, in his never forgetting the generosity given to Scotty in his start in hockey, the foundation sponsors youth hockey events and grants for the Boys & Girls Club of Anchorage. That is really giving back to the community. One of the Scotty Gomez Foundation's biggest events every year is the Last Frontier Pond Hockey Classic, which is organized by Carlos and his partner, Mike Davenport, in Big Lake. The event took place just two weekends ago, and it was quite an event. More than 600 hockey players showed up--kids, lawyers, doctors, slope workers, former pro and college players--men and women. Counting everybody, more than 1,000 people, from all walks of life, went to the event to raise money for youth hockey in Alaska. It is amazing what one family can do to touch so many, led by Mr. Carlos Gomez. As Scotty said, ``It was my father's dream to give back. This is all him. He always just wants to help others.'' If you are a kid in Alaska who wants to play hockey, Carlos Gomez will egg you on and make sure nothing, especially the cost of equipment, will stop you. Scotty said, “When I was growing up, he was like a father to all of the neighborhood kids who needed one. My dad's a true hero.” I thank Mr. Carlos Gomez for all he has done for Alaska's youth and youth hockey throughout our great State. We are honored to call him our Alaskan of the Week. ###
03.23.2018	03.23.18 Sullivan Opposes Government Spending Measure WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement after opposing H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, a $1.3 trillion spending bill that funds the government through Fiscal Year 2018. “While this legislation contains many critical spending priorities – necessary increases for our military and national security, safeguards for our schools and local communities, and investments to encourage job creation and economic growth – I could not in good conscience vote for it. Over 2,200 pages of legislative text, hundreds if not thousands of pages of accompanying documents – all with huge implications for our economy and our citizens – deserves far more than 28 hours to read and review. My commitment to Alaskans to give legislation – particularly something of this size and magnitude – the appropriate level of due diligence and attention simply could not be met under these circumstances. This was a difficult vote for me, in large part because the bill contained a number of Alaska-specific priorities I authored or fought for – including funding for Secure Rural Schools and the Denali Commission, investments to fight our addiction and mental health crisis, resources for water and sewer infrastructure, and necessary upgrades to our missile defense systems. “Since arriving to the Senate, I’ve said our system for funding the federal government is in dire need of repair. Sadly, this process was business as usual – an all or nothing deal, without a single opportunity for amendments or ample time for review. The Alaskan and American people deserve better. I’m committed to continuing work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to bring a more predictable and transparent budget process back to the U.S. Senate. ###
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Senator Sullivan Statement on Retirement of H.R. McMaster WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) shared the following statement on the retirement of Lt. General H.R. McMaster: “Lt. General H.R. McMaster has served his country for over 34 years with integrity, courage and with an exceptional warrior spirit. He exemplifies the best of what a military officer stands for,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “I’ve had the honor of knowing Lt. Gen. McMaster for many years, and served under him as a Marine Corps Major in 2009. I thank him, his wife Kathleen, and their three daughters for their outstanding service to our nation.” ###
03.21.2018	03.21.18 Senate Overwhelming Passes Legislation to Combat Online Sex Trafficking “The fact that this is a problem in America, I think shocks a lot of people.” WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined 96 of his colleagues to support the Senate passage of H.R. 1865, a grouping of both the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act (SESTA) and the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act. The legislation – which garnered the support of the White House and passed the U.S. House late last month – takes serious steps to hold websites and other institutions accountable that knowingly facilitate sex trafficking activity by closing loopholes in outdated federal communications law. Sullivan, an original sponsor of the legislation, spoke passionately alongside a bipartisan group of his colleagues on the Senate floor today to discuss the critical importance of the legislation and the impact it will have on reducing “the horrible scourge of human sex trafficking all across the country.” Senator Sullivan encourages the passage of bipartisan legislation to combat online sex trafficking (click image or here to watch) “What we do in this legislation is we’re taking the fight to one of the places in this country where human trafficking and sex trafficking has really exploded – and that’s the Internet,” Senator Sullivan said in his floor speech. “The bipartisan legislation we’re debating right now will ensure that websites and other institutions on the Internet, and the companies related to them, that knowingly – and that’s an important word – facilitate sex trafficking can be held accountable for their actions. It will also create new federal crimes related to promoting or facilitating human trafficking over the Internet and give more resources to state prosecutors to go after these heinous crimes.” Following the passage of H.R. 1865, Senator Sullivan emphasized the need for the legislation in a press conference with bill advocates and fellow Senate Commerce Committee members. Sullivan speaking on the importance of SESTA-passage during a bipartisan press conference (click image or here to watch). “The fact that this is a problem in America, I think shocks a lot of people. The fact that it’s not just a problem in America, but it’s increasing – you know the numbers that you’ve heard about increases of online trafficking going up by some estimates over 800%, it’s unbelievable. It’s a huge problem in my state of Alaska…,” Senator Sullivan said during the press conference. “ But one aspect of this bill – it was the same aspect that we had in the 2015 Victims for Human Trafficking bill – is that we’re starting to unleash … the power of state AGs. One of the big problems with human trafficking cases is we don’t have enough resources. We don’t have enough money, investigators, or prosecutors. What this bill does – what the bill in 2015 did – it says ‘alright, federal law is the standard but we’re going to allow Attorneys General, District Attorneys, frontline prosecutors to go after these individuals.’ This bill does that…because finally we’re going to start bringing the resources to bear on these heinous crimes that unfortunately are growing in our country.” H.R. 1865 makes narrowly crafted changes designed to make websites that knowingly engage in sex trafficking civilly liable, allows state attorneys general to prosecute websites that violate federal sex trafficking laws, and gives victims the opportunity to seek the justice they deserve. The bill also strengthens criminal penalties for websites that facilitate illegal prostitution or sex trafficking. The legislation is the result of a two-year Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI) inquiry which resulted in a report entitled “Backpage.com’s Knowing Facilitation of Online Sex Trafficking,” which found that Backpage.com knowingly facilitated criminal sex trafficking of vulnerable women and young girls and then covered up evidence of these crimes in order to increase its own profits. The bill is supported by trafficking survivors, anti-human trafficking advocates and law enforcement, 50 Attorneys General, the civil rights community, faith-based groups, the larger tech community, and courts and judges who have made clear that it is Congress’ responsibility to act to protect sex trafficking victims. ###
03.16.2018	03.16.18 In Letter to Alaska Governor, Sullivan Highlights Key Tax Reform Provision Known as Investing in Opportunity Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week wrote Alaska Governor Bill Walker to highlight a critical provision within H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, known as the Investing in Opportunity Act, which encourages economic investments in distressed or underserved communities across the country. “… part of the tax bill creates what is called ‘Opportunity Zones,’ which will further promote economic investment in underserved, rural and impoverished areas. This program has received less attention than the overall tax bill, but has significant potential to spur economic growth in our state,” Sullivan wrote. The Investing in Opportunity Act, a bipartisan measure championed by Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, was one of the many measures – in addition to the historic opening of ANWR’s 1002 to resource development – included in H.R. 1 to encourage growth and investment in the American economy. The provision arose from a group of Congressional members – including Senator Sullivan – convened by Senator Scott called the Opportunity Coalition. The provision works to incentivize investment by temporarily deferring, or in some cases reducing or excluding, certain capital gains taxes for investing in new Opportunity Zones located in “low-income community” census tracts. “Opportunity Zones are areas that are in qualifying census tracks based on average income of residents living in those tracts. Alaska has approximately 68 such tracks, encompassing a huge swath of our state. Your office will designate 25 of these tracks as Opportunity Zones. Investors can then establish Opportunity Funds to invest in projects within these zones,” the letter stated. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act calls for the establishment of Opportunity Zones by state Governors by March 21st, 2018 but includes language allowing for a 30-day extension from the U.S. Treasury. “No doubt, choosing which zones will qualify will be a complicated process and I’m confident that you’ll reach out to communities and businesses across Alaska to ensure that the Opportunity Funds are used to promote economic growth in our underserved communities. I’m also confident that you will pay attention to zones which will have the potential to develop projects that could benefit the state as a whole, particularly as we struggle with an extended recession,” wrote Sullivan. The Investing in Opportunity section of the tax bill facilitates private investment in the following ways: Removes barriers to investment through a temporary capital gains deferral in exchange for reinvesting them in distressed communities Provides a new way for investors across the nation to pool resources through newly-created "Opportunity Funds," established specifically for making investments in distressed communities Concentrates capital by establishing "Opportunity Zones," geographically targeted low-income areas that will be designated by governors Encourages investors to make long-term commitments to these communities by tying incentives to longevity. The full letter can be found here. ###
03.15.2018	03.15.18 ICYMI: Historic Hearing Featuring Five Cabinet Secretaries Discusses Efforts to Rebuild America’s Infrastructure Sullivan Highlights Alaska Projects and Priorities, Outlines Need for Permitting Reform WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee held a hearing titled, “Rebuilding Infrastructure in America: Administration Perspectives,” which featured five cabinet secretaries. Testimony included the Secretaries of Transportation, Commerce, Labor, Agriculture, and Energy – thought to be the most ever number of department heads to testify before a single Senate Committee. Senator Sullivan, a vocal leader on efforts to rebuild our nation’s inadequate and aging infrastructure, chose to focus his questions on a number of Alaska related issues, including the recently approved Sterling Highway EIS and the need to reform our nation’s broken permitting process. Sen. Sullivan Highlights Alaskan Priorities/Projects and Need for Permitting Reform to Cabinet Secretaries (click image or here to watch). TRANSCRIPT OF SENATOR SULLIVAN’S QUESTIONING: SENATOR SULLIVAN: I really appreciate the administration coming up here in full force with five cabinet secretaries on the principles of infrastructure. I think the Administration put out a very strong plan, worked with a lot of us on that. I will tell you, and I think you see it in this Committee and on the EPW Committee – in which I also serve – there’s a lot of interest and energy to move forward on a major infrastructure plan where we have bipartisan support. I think this hearing is demonstrating the Administration’s focus, so I want to thank all of you for doing that. Secretary Acosta, I want to thank you again for your help on the issue of the H2B Visas and how we need to reform that system so that is truly for surge, working needs that are seasonal, not necessarily for other industries that might be more abusive of that. And Secretary Perry, I was here earlier. I had to go preside for the last hour, but your comments about the opportunity with regard to the American Energy renaissance that’s taking place whether in Texas or Alaska, or really all over the country, is really just spot on. It’s an enormous opportunity for national security, energy security, job security, growing our economy. So I thank you for your leadership on that. Let me ask you real quick as it relates to infrastructure – for you and Secretary Chao. You know there’s been a lot of focus on, unfortunately, on pipelines – energy pipelines, oil and gas pipelines – and how a certain small segment of our country wants to oppose them everywhere. There’s been studies, and I know you familiar with them. Are pipelines safer for example than railcars for moving oil or even LNG as we’re trying to do that? Aren’t they much safer in terms of the ability to move these kind of vital commodities that our country needs? Secretary Chao, Secretary Perry? Much safer, isn’t that correct? SECRETARY CHAO: Yes. SECRETARY PERRY: And the technology allows them to become safer and safer as we use our innovation and technology. SENATOR SULLIVAN: So the last administration took eight years and finally disapproved the Keystone pipeline. [President Trump] came in and switched that. Mr. Chairman, I’d like for the record to submit an editorial by the Boston Globe. It was about – a very long editorial by the Boston Globe editorial page – how Massachusetts has in some kind of fit of righteousness wanted to disallow any pipelines coming across its state. So guess where they’re getting their gas from now? The Russians, as opposed to Americans. Not really good policy. I’d like to submit this to the record. It’s an editorial called “Our Russian ‘Pipeline’ and Its Ugly Toll.” Madam Secretary, I’d like to talk to you a little more on the issue of permitting. As you know, you came up to Alaska last summer and essentially broke the logjam on the Sterling Highway EIS that was – we think that was the longest EIS in the works for the federal government in the history of the country. It only took 40 years – 40 years. Can you talk a little more about the importance of not only your agency but all the agencies here working together so we can get to this standard? As you know, I have a bill called the Rebuild America Now Act, which I’ve been working with the administration on. Permitting reform, streamlining so we can get the commonsense permitting – whether it’s pipelines, or roads, or ports, or harbors; as opposed to nightmare scenario like the one you helped resolve – thank you very much – on the Sterling Highway; a 40 year EIS that helps nobody, certainly didn’t help my state. SECRETARY CHAO: Senator Sullivan, you are very kind to give me the credit, but your office and you deserve a great deal of the credit. We appreciated the opportunity to work with you to let loose that EIS on Sterling Highway. You pointed out the importance and we got to work. Secondly, on the issue of permitting. You’ve been a champion on permitting. Very commonsensical approaches to permitting. Streamlining the permitting process has all sorts of benefits. It can spring out more projects that will be available for the private sector to fund and finance, for example, and there are commonsensical ways in avoiding duplication, doing concurrent rather than sequential permitting, getting rid of duplicative permitting, allowing sister-agencies to talk with one another to share information. So most of these ideas you have outlined yourself, since you’ve been a champion of permitting. So we will continue to work with you on this. SENATOR SULLIVAN: Well I appreciate those comments Madam Secretary. I will just say, I think there’s a bipartisan opportunity here – both on the Commerce Committee and the EPW Committee – to move forward on issues that impact all of us. As you know, most of the labor unions – the building trades – are very supportive of the administration’s principles. They’ve backed the bill that I’ve sponsored here. We have a lot of cosponsors on that. So we want to work with you, particularly on this permitting issue, because it’s vital to the country and I think we have a bipartisan opportunity to move it. Having all five of you, and the President, and the rest of the Administration backing this I think is a really important statement on what most Americans want and what we need as a nation. ###
03.15.2018	03.15.18 Sullivan Shares Statement on Passage of Bipartisan Dodd-Frank Reform Bill Works to Right-Size Regulations for Small Community Banks and Credit Unions WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after voting in support of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, legislation to reform the one-size-fits-all financial law known as the Dodd-Frank Act. “As we work to reignite the American economy after a lost decade of growth – small community banks and credit unions continue to play a critical role. However, since the enactment of Dodd-Frank in 2010, we’ve seen well over a thousand American community banks close their doors – many unable to keep up with the ever-increasing regulatory and compliance demands as a result of this one-size-fits-all law,” said Senator Sullivan. “The legislation – which garnered major support from both Republicans and Democrats – works to right-size these regulations for small community banks and credit unions; effectively freeing up critical resources and making it easier for them to offer services to hardworking Alaskan families and small businesses, including new mortgages, loans and community investments that result in new jobs and added opportunity for our residents. With the highest unemployment rate in the nation, getting Alaska out of its recession continues to be my primary focus. This legislation, along with the series of pro-growth measures we’ve recently taken in Congress, should make a meaningful difference in helping get Alaskans back to work and our economy growing.” The largest Dodd-Frank reform to pass the U.S. Senate since its passage in 2010, this bill works to protect American citizens from the threat of predatory financial institutions while also working to create a strong and robust economy. S. 2155, which overwhelmingly passed the Senate 67 to 31, importantly tailors Dodd-Frank’s strictest regulations as they were originally intended – for Wall Street and too-big-to-fail financial institutions, while also enhancing consumer protections – particularly for seniors, veterans and victims of identity theft. The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act has received robust support from Alaska community banks and credit unions, including the Alaska Credit Union League and the Alaska Bankers Association. ###
03.13.2018	03.13.18 Senator Sullivan Shares Statement on Secretary of State Rex Tillerson WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Co-Chair of the Senate Foreign Service Caucus and former U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs, shared the following statement on Secretary of State Rex Tillerson: “Since accepting the President’s call to serve, Secretary Tillerson has done an admirable job as the nation’s lead diplomat. In particular, he should be commended for his commitment to country, his renewed focus on the strategic importance of the Arctic and American energy, and the support he shares for our global allies and the role they play in maintaining peace and stability in the world. “In these times of significant national security and diplomatic challenges, I share my faith in the State Department leadership and the men and women who faithfully execute our diplomatic missions at home and overseas each and every day. “I look forward to meeting with Secretary-designee Mike Pompeo as he goes through the Senate confirmation process and expressing the same views and priorities that I previously outlined to Secretary Tillerson, including the role energy serves in American diplomacy and the need to view the Arctic as a frontier of great strategic importance.” ###
03.13.2018	03.13.18 Sullivan Joins Colleagues and Parkland Families in Support of STOP School Violence Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues and Parkland, FL families to share support for the Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing (STOP) School Violence Act. The legislation, which was introduced earlier this month and has amassed the bipartisan support of 36 Senators, takes important steps to fund school security improvements and invests in early intervention and prevention programs to stop school violence before it occurs. Speaking at a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol, Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Steve Daines (R-MT) and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) were joined by Kyle Kashuv, a student of Marjory Stone Douglas High School, and Ryan and Patrick Petty, the father and brother of Parkland victim Alaina Petty. Senator Sullivan speaking today in support of the STOP School Violence Act (click image or here to watch) “The one element of this bill that I think is very important to recognize – it’s focused on school safety and we all want that of course, but we’re a big country and a lot of what matters and how we’re going to define school safety and security is going to be different in different states, in different communities and a lot of that is going to be defined by school administrators,” Senator Sullivan said today in front of the U.S. Capitol. “What this bill does, it recognizes that. It sets out broad parameters, gets funding to different communities through our entire country, but then allows the local circumstances and the local issues to be addressed and designed by the people who are on the ground. And I think that’s a very important element of this bill. I’m proud to be a cosponsor and again I want to thank all my colleagues on moving forward on something that’s important.” The legislation authorizes the Department of Justice to make available grants for the purposes of training students, school personnel, and law enforcement to identify signs of violence and intervene to prevent people from hurting themselves or others. In addition to prevention efforts, the legislation funds evidence-based technology and equipment to improve school security and prevent school violence. This includes the development of anonymous reporting systems, and commonsense security infrastructure improvements. The legislation also provides funds for school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams to help schools intake and triage threats before tragedy strikes. STOP School Violence Act of 2018 The Student, Teachers, and Officers Preventing School Violence Act of 2018, or the STOP School Violence Act, reauthorizes and amends the 2001-2009 bipartisan Secure Our Schools Act to offer Department of Justice grants to states to help our schools implement proven, evidence-based programs and technologies that STOP school violence before it happens. The bill permits grants to fund evidence-based programs and practices to: Training to students, school personnel, and local law enforcement to identify warning signs and intervene to stop school violence before it happens; Improve school security infrastructure to deter and respond to threats of school violence, including the development and implementation of anonymous reporting systems for threats of school violence; Develop and operate school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams; and Facilitate coordination between schools and local law enforcement. The bill would authorize $75 million for FY 2018, and $100 million annually for the next ten years, which may be partially offset from a DOJ research program called the Comprehensive School Safety Initiative. ###
03.09.2018	03.09.18 SULLIVAN HONORS ALASKAN OF THE WEEK: CAROL SEPPILU WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor this week in recognition of Carol Seppilu, of Nome, who, as a result of a suicide attempt when she was 16 years old, is an advocate for suicide prevention. Carol is an amazing athlete, determined to run ultramarathons in all 50 states. She was honored as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” Senator Sullivan Honoring Carol Seppilu as Alaskan of the Week (Click image or here to watch). TRIBUTE TO CAROL SEPPILU Madam President, as many of my colleagues know, one of my favorite parts of the week is coming down to the Senate floor to recognize somebody special in my State, somebody we refer to as our ``Alaskan of the Week.'' It is one of the most fulfilling things I do all week, to get to talk about people who make my State very, very special. I know many of you--people in the Gallery--have seen Alaska on TV or have read about it in the newspapers, but there is no substitute for being there. We want you all to come. It would be the trip of a lifetime, particularly now. What is going on in Alaska right now, one of the highlights of the entire year, is the Iditarod--the ``last great race'' in the world--which is in full throttle. When you visit, Alaska will change your life--the wilderness, the wildlife, the quiet, the sense of unbridled freedom, the liberty, and the majesty. It is all there. It is all there, so come on, come on and visit. Also, when you visit, you will realize that Alaska is home to some of the most courageous, hard-working, and tenacious people in the world, many of whom have overcome tremendous odds and are determined to inspire others to live a full and healthy life. Madam President, I would like to take you, take everybody listening, to Nome, Alaska, and tell you about Carol Seppilu, someone who I believe personifies determination and perseverance and who is an inspiration to us all and is this week's Alaskan of the Week. Carol lives in Nome--a rugged, unique, and beautiful town in Alaska's northwest, about 500 miles from Anchorage. You might have heard of Nome. The reality show ``Gold Rush: Alaska'' was filmed there, and it is also the finish for the Iditarod. Pretty soon, if you are watching on TV--our best guess is early next week--the mushers and the dozens of dogs--that, by the way, love the race. They love the race--will begin to cross the finish line. People from all over our State, but really people from all over the world, will be there to greet them as they finish this incredible race, to greet them and congratulate them. We call it the ``last great race,'' and it finishes at Nome. There is no place like Nome, we like to say in Alaska. If you live in Nome, you might have seen Carol running in winter, spring, summer, and fall. Carol runs through the streets and into the mountains surrounding Nome. It is one of the ways that she has found purpose in her life, which in turn she has used to help others, to inspire others. Like a lot of us, Carol had big dreams when she was growing up. She was interested in science and space. She was actually interested in being an astrophysicist. Then, as sometimes happens to young kids, her life took a bit of a turn. She got in with the wrong crowd and started drinking and using drugs, and her life lost meaning. This is a difficult subject to talk about on the Senate floor, but we must. We must. Carol wants us to. Alaska has the second highest suicide rate in the country, and it has the highest teen suicide rate in the entire Nation. The suicide rate among Alaska Native teens is also very, very high--tragically high, horribly high. When it comes to suicide, silence is deadly.Carol knows all about this. When she was 16, she tried to end her life by shooting herself. After the gun went off, she remembers thinking: Dear God, save me. I don't want to die anymore. Then she described how, during this awful incident, her ancestors came to her, her elders, telling her that she was going to be OK and that she had a reason to live. She did live. Badly scarred, after having multiple operations on her face, recovery has not been easy for Carol, but she has made it through. She has toughed it out. What she did was remarkable and incredible. She began to speak about suicide at schools. She was a member of the State's Suicide Prevention Council. Eventually, she got a job at an elders' home, where she is currently the cultural activities specialist. She organizes Alaska Native dances. She cooks traditional Alaska Native food for her elders. Moose and muskox soup is their favorite. I think Senator Murkowski is going to let us enjoy a little muskox stew over lunch today, so Carol will be pleased about that. But as the years went by, she again experienced depression, which is not uncommon. She didn't feel like getting out of bed. She was unhealthy. But then again, in 2014, more inspiration--again, incredible. A high school friend who was a runner urged Carol to try it. You are not feeling healthy? You are feeling sad? Go out, try to get a run in. At first, when she did it, she could only go a few blocks. Eventually the blocks turned into miles, which is even more challenging for her because of some of her injuries. Nonetheless, she persevered. We are seeing a theme in her life. She began to get healthy and to feel good about herself again. Again, she found her reason to live. Guess what. She has turned into an amazing athlete. She began to enter races in 2015 when she ran the local 8-mile Dexter Challenge. ``I thought, if I do eight miles, I could do a half marathon,'' she said. And then she did. Carol didn't stop there. Now she is running ultramarathons across the country--50 miles in Iowa, multiple ultramarathons in Utah, a 50K in Washington State. Early this year, she was running a 50K in Texas when, about 5 miles in, she broke her ankle, but that didn't stop her. She finished even with a broken ankle and is recovering. We are seeing a woman, a young lady of perseverance. Her ultimate goal is to do an ultramarathon in every State in America. Because of Carol's scars, she wears a mask. In August she decided that it was too cumbersome to wear the mask while running, so during a race in Alaska--the very challenging 50-mile Resurrection Pass ultramarathon--she took it off, and it was liberating for her. Here is the beautiful thing: Everybody--everybody--was so supportive, so she doesn't run with a mask anymore. It is not only runners who are supportive of Carol; she has gotten people in her hometown, the town of Nome, to start running themselves. Across the State, people approach her wherever she goes, and they tell her they have heard about her, they have heard about her life, and if she has made it through her challenge, they can too. In other words, she is an inspiration. She has become an inspiration throughout Alaska to so many people. She said: “I think I'm helping other people overcome difficulties. They tell me I'm inspiring them to keep going. So that's why I believe I'm here now--to help others.” That is Carol's quote. So, Carol, for your inspiration to so many in our great State, for all you have done and all you continue to do, we are proud of you and thank you for being our Alaskan of the Week this week, as the Iditarod finishes up in your hometown of Nome, Alaska. Madam President, I yield the floor. ###
03.09.2018	03.09.18 EUCOM Commander Cautions U.S. “Not Keeping Pace” with Russia’s Military Buildup in Arctic WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) yesterday questioned General Curtis Scaparrotti, commander of the U.S. European Command (EUCOM), during a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee on concerns over Russia’s continuing military buildup in the Arctic region including a new Arctic military command. Senator Sullivan noted Russia is aggressively building and refurbishing bases near the Northern Sea Route. Senator Sullivan Questions U.S. European Command on Russia's Military Build-Up in the Arctic (click image or here to watch). Senator Sullivan pressed General Scaparrotti, “What do you think their intentions are? Are they installing any systems, including the fielding of major icebreakers that would give them de facto control of the Northern Sea route? They're clearly militarizing that part of the world. And what do you think they're trying to achieve?” General Scaparrotti replied the Russians intend to provide safeguards and security for the economic wellbeing of the Arctic. He warned “if you look at what they’re putting into place, they would have the capability, in perhaps two or three years, to control the Northern Sea route, if they chose to do so.” Senator Sullivan continued questioning General Scaparrotti on the impact of Russia having control over the Northern Sea Route, which is a “potentially incredibly important line of communication.” Senator Sullivan referred to the Defense Department’s Arctic Strategy, updated in 2016, which discusses the ability and necessity for the U.S. to run freedom of navigation operations in the Northern Sea Route. Sullivan asked, “Are we falling behind in terms of the capabilities that we have vis-a-vis the Russians to do that?” General Scaparrotti replied, “we're not keeping pace.” General Scaparrotti testified on the United States European Command’s Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2019 and the Future Years Defense Program. The Trump administration requested $6.5 billion request for the European Deterrence Initiative for 2019. After the hearing, Senator Sullivan commended Secretary of Defense James Mattis for the Department of Defense’s new Arctic Strategy that identifies significant issues for the U.S. in the Arctic. Senator Sullivan sponsored legislation mandating an update for the plan. He also secured a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 calling for the department to report back on a new concept for a “Strategic Arctic Port” that would bolster U.S. military infrastructure to support future ice-hardened U.S. Navy Ships and/or U.S. Coast Guard heavy polar ice breakers in the Arctic region. ###
03.09.2018	03.09.18 Senator Sullivan Statement on North Korea WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement on potential talks with North Korea: “It is clear that the global maximum pressure campaign we’ve been focused on for months under the leadership of the Trump Administration – U.S. sanctions mandated by Congress, additional sanctions authorized by the United Nations Security Council, the development of credible military options, and pressuring China to do much more regarding North Korea – is having a real impact and clearly starting to bite. “As we move forward with the objective of the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, staying very closely aligned with our allies in the region – especially the Republic of Korea and Japan – will be critical, along with the continuation of the maximum pressure campaign, U.S./ Republic of Korea joint military exercises, and importantly the stationing of U.S. military forces on the Korean Peninsula. “Years ago, President Reagan famously coined the term ‘trust, but verify.’ With North Korea, a regime that has a history of consistently cheating on and backing away from every deal they have ever agreed to over the last three decades, U.S. policy must now be ‘never trust and meticulously verify.’” In late February 2018, Senator Sullivan was part of a Senate Armed Services delegation that visited South Korea. This included meetings with ROK Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha, ROK Defense Minister Song Young-moo, General Brooks and United States Forces Korea leadership, and a visit to the joint security area of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). Similarly, the delegation visited Japan, where they met with U.S. and Japanese military and civilian leadership. The trip concluded with a stop in Alaska, where the delegation visited Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson and Ft. Greely for an overview on Alaska’s strategic military importance. In each location, the delegation discussed countering threats posed by North Korea and U.S. missile defense systems, which are primarily based in Alaska. ###
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Sullivan and Colleagues Send Letter to President Highlighting Potential Negative Impacts of Steel and Aluminum Tariffs WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) along with U.S. Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Barrasso (R-WY), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Ron Johnson (R-WI) sent a letter to President Trump today expressing concern over how proposed aluminum and steel tariffs could negatively impact our national security and strain relationships with our international allies and partners. “As outlined in both the National Security Strategy and National Defense Strategy, maintaining relationships with allies and partners is vital to international stability and the national security of the United States. Our military and intelligence communities benefit from these alliances and partnerships, and in today’s strategic environment it is of utmost importance that we continue to foster constructive relationships with international partners that share our nation’s concerns and interests with emphasis on addressing the most critical challenges facing the U.S. and global steel industry,” the Senators wrote. They continued by offering, “In lieu of imposing broad, global aluminum and steel tariffs that could adversely impact our relationship with several key allies, we ask that the administration consider alternative approaches to address these issues.” The full letter can be found here or by clicking the letter. ###
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Sullivan Advocates for Alaska Energy at CERAWeek 2018 “A lot of excitement on what’s going on in Alaska. I’m here in part to make sure people are aware of that.” WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Senator Sullivan (R-AK) participated in the opening policy dialogue of CERAWeek 2018 – an annual energy and technology focused conference in Houston, Texas. Sullivan was joined by Daniel Yergin, IHS Markit Vice-Chairman and conference chair, and Greg Armstrong, Chairman/CEO of Plains All American, as he discussed the policy successes of 2017 – including historic tax reform legislation, efforts to streamline permitting for U.S. infrastructure, new opportunities for oil and gas exploration and development like the 1002 Area of ANWR, and optimism for Alaska and American energy prospects. Daniel Yergin, Senator Dan Sullivan, and Greg Armstrong participating in the opening dialogue session at CERA Week 2018 Numerous publications covered Senator Sullivan’s remarks and subsequent panel discussion, which included discussions on future lease sales in ANWR’s 1002 as well as his reaction to the proposed tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum announced by President Trump late last week. CERAWeek 2018 News Coverage: The Hill: Alaska senator- Arctic refuge drilling sale could start next year Platts Energy: CERAWeek – First US ANWR oil sale could be held in 2019 - US senator Washington Examiner: Alaska senator says opening of Arctic refuge could start next year The New York Times: Trump Reaffirms Commitment to Tariffs but Opens Door to Compromise Time Magazine: A ‘Major Second Wave’ of U.S. Fracking Is About to Be Unleashed Upon the World E&E News: Steel tariff debate spills into energy gathering Washington Examiner: Senator, pipeline CEO warn Trump steel tariffs could harm 'energy dominance' agenda CNBC: Trump steel tariffs hit raw nerve in energy –US pipelines for oil boom rely on foreign steel Bloomberg: Steel Tariffs Should Focus on the ‘Real Problem’ Before his remarks at CERAWeek 2018, Senator Sullivan sat down with James Rosenfield, Senior Vice President of IHS Markit, to discuss his efforts to streamline the federal permitting process and opportunities he sees for oil and gas exploration in Alaska. That Q&A can be found below. Senator Dan Sullivan speaking with James Rosenfield, Senior Vice President of IHS Markit, at CERAWeek 2018 (click image or here to watch) JAMES ROSENFIELD: You’ve been a leading proponent of streamlining permitting processes, why is this so important for infrastructure? SENATOR SULLIVAN: It’s important for a couple reasons. A, just to get projects online and producing. Unlike other countries – other industrialized democracies – in the United States, whether it’s pipelines, or roads, or bridges, it can take seven, eight, nine, ten years to get through the permitting process. This is something I think there’s bipartisan support to move forward on. The other reason though is when you actually have certainty in the permitting process – say not ten years but maybe a year and a half or two years – you are then able to bring in private sector capital to our infrastructure. Look, American infrastructure needs – it has to be a combination of federal government spending – but a huge part has to be in the private sector. And when you have a certainty in permitting you can bring that private sector money to the table in terms of infrastructure. So it’s really important. JAMES ROSENFIELD: So what’s wrong with the infrastructure system in the U.S. and how does your Rebuild American Now Act fix the problem? SENATOR SULLIVAN: On the federal side, it is this issue of multiple agencies that are in the permitting process for infrastructure projects and again it just goes to the delay, the delay, the delay. Simple things like permitting a bridge can take on average in America six to seven years. Pipelines, we’ve seen, can take almost a decade. So, it’s the timelines and the delays and the litigation that causes these delays. What my bill does, the Rebuild American Now Act – we have a lot of cosponsors in the Senate ,we have all the building trades in America; the men and women who build things are all supportive of my legislation – but it looks to streamline the process, bring down the timelines, have a single agency in charge of making decisions, and also looks at the NEPA process – the National Environmental Policy Act – in terms of these NEPA reviews and these thousands and thousands of pages that come out of this process; costing millions of dollars. It actually streamlines that as well. We think there should be strong bipartisan support for this and we’ve been working closely with the Trump administration on their permitting plan and a lot of it deals with streamlining the permitting process and that’s what my bill does. JAMES ROSENFIELD: Let’s turn to Alaska. Do you see a revival of oil and gas exploration in Alaska? SENATOR SULLIVAN: Absolutely, you see companies like ConocoPhillips, a lot of the independents, are exploring in ways that they haven’t done in decades. And again, part of this is legislation and part of this is the new administration that’s helping us in Alaska. I’ll give you two examples – the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska. That is set aside by the Congress – it’s on the west side of the North Slope – for oil and gas development. The previous administration restricted access to the NPR-A. This administration – from the federal perspective – is opening that access. We have a lot of companies interested in that. Second, and maybe even more importantly, you may have seen in the tax reform bill that after 40 years we were finally able to get passed and signed by the President the opening of a small portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge – ANWR – for responsible exploration. This is a strong bipartisan issue in Alaska. ANWR, a lot of people consider it one of the great, last conventional oil plays in the world – next to existing infrastructure. We’re hoping to have a lease sale as early as 2019 on that. But there’s a lot of interest, a lot of excitement on what’s going on in Alaska. I’m here in part to make sure people are aware of that. ###
02.28.2018	02.28.18 Sullivan Joins Delegation Visit to South Korea and Japan WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recently returned from a trip to the Asia-Pacific with fellow members of the Armed Services Committee Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Mike Rounds (R-SD) and Congressman Trent Kelly (R-MS) of the House Armed Services Committee. The delegation visited Taiwan, South Korea, and Japan, where they met with senior military officials and government leaders to discuss a wide-array of issues ranging from the importance of continued U.S. leadership in the region and mutual security cooperation to U.S. energy dominance and military training exercises in the Asia-Pacific. While in South Korea, the delegation met with Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha, Defense Minister Song Young-moo, General Brooks and United States Forces Korea leadership, and visited the joint security area of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). Sen. Sullivan at the Joint Security Area in the Korean DMZ. In Japan, the delegation visited with Japanese Foreign Minister Kono, Lt General Martinez and United States Forces Japan and 7th Fleet leadership. In both countries, the delegation discussed the importance of missile defense and countering North Korea as well as China’s growing influence in the region. Sen. Sullivan with Alaskan service members Lt. Colonel Tony Mollison and Captain Charity Mollison, USAF. “Since I arrived in the Senate, I have been warning about the rise of China and the imminent threat from North Korea,” said. Sullivan. “This trip to South Korea and Japan has confirmed to me that not only has China risen, but they are now in direct competition with the United States and our strategic and economic interests and those of our allies. It also showed me how important our allies are to countering the unstable leadership in North Korea. The trip to the Asia-Pacific concluded with a stop in Alaska, where the delegation visited Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson and Ft. Greely. Members of the delegation visit the 49th Missile Defense Battalion at Ft. Greely, Alaska. “Ending the trip in Alaska allowed me to showcase to my colleagues Alaska’s strategic location and highlight some of unique advantages our great state gives our nation’s military. Also, once in Alaska, it is easy to see why we are the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense, the hub of air combat power and training for the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic, and a vital strategic platform for some of America's best-trained expeditionary troops,” Sullivan concluded. ###
02.27.2018	02.27.18 Senator Sullivan Addresses Alaska Legislature Highlights Key Pillars of Optimism for Alaska and Progress Being Made to Secure Social and Economic Future Juneau, AK – On Monday, February 26, 2018, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke to a joint session of the Alaska Legislature. In his fourth address since taking office, Sullivan highlighted key pillars of optimism for Alaska and the progress being made to secure Alaska’s social and economic future. Senator Sullivan Addressing a Joint Session of the Alaska Legislature (click image or here to watch). For full text of Senator Sullivan’s annual address (as prepared), click here. Six Pillars of Optimism: Federal Government as a Partner We need a federal government that is a partner in opportunity, not an obstacle. The feds own more than 60 percent of Alaska lands, and at various points in history, have chosen to use this control as a weapon to stifle our economic opportunities. Now, I disagree with a number of the statements and tweets made by President Trump, but in terms of a federal government that is finally working to help grow Alaska’s economy, we are making significant progress. And the feds are also listening to us as we continue to place well-qualified Alaskans into the highest levels of the federal government to protect Alaska’s interests, and implement national policies. Consider this: There are six assistant secretaries for the entire U.S. Department of Interior. Two of them—one third—will be Alaskans. That’s progress! Strong Economy We want a vibrant economy that brings widespread prosperity to all Alaskans. Last year, I told you that my number one focus would be on our economy. On the federal level, we’re making progress here too. In fact, we’re on the cusp of an Alaskan comeback. We are on the cusp of becoming – once again – one of the hottest energy and resource plays in the world. But we need to seize the opportunity now. At the federal level, we are putting the right policies and personnel in place, but it will largely be up to you to bring the investors here. The decisions you make matter immensely. Just as this body’s decision to pass Senate Bill 21 resulted in more investment, more oil and more revenue, even as prices collapsed, the policies you enact here will dictate whether, or if, we will seize this moment of opportunity. Healthy Communities We want to live in healthy communities, with clean air and clean water and a pristine environment that supports thriving populations of fish and game. A strong economy is worth nothing if it destroys our environment. We’re also making progress on another important oceans issue, particularly here in Southeast, and that’s transboundary mining. A few weeks ago, Lt. Gov. Mallott and I traveled to Canada to meet with cabinet officials to request specific action by Canada. Our trip to Ottawa showed the Canadian government a powerful unity, which now includes the U.S. State Department whose officials are taking the transboundary mining issue much more seriously than the previous Administration ever did. Healthy communities also mean access to affordable healthcare—a huge challenge in our state. There are principled differences and much debate on this issue. But even here we’ve made progress in the past year. Thanks to your innovative legislation, the Trump Administration granted Alaska the first 1332 waiver of any state in the country. The U.S. Congress recently voted to reauthorize CHIP—the block grant program which covers Alaskan kids in low-income families—for 10 years. And we’ve fully funded Community Health Centers which are so vital to our state. We delayed the Affordable Care Act’s Cadillac Tax, which if it ever kicks in, will devastate Alaska’s fragile healthcare market. And we repealed the ACA’s individual mandate—which taxed Alaskans for not buying a product they couldn’t afford. I know the Legislature is seriously looking at ways to bring those costs under control and so are we. Safe Communities We want to be safe in our homes, villages, neighborhoods, and schools. We obviously have a lot of work to do in this area. I hear from Alaskans over and over again about cars stolen and houses broken into. Shootings on the streets. We have to do everything we can do to protect our citizens. This also means making sure our kids are safe in their schools. The horrific high school shooting in Florida has scarred the conscious of our nation, and catalyzed an important national discussion on school safety. Regardless of where we stand on these issues, young Americans across the country—some of whom are friends and families of the victims—who are talking about this issue, need to be applauded for their courage and deserve to be listened to. I will carefully evaluate proposals on the federal level, however, as Alaskans, we understand how important our 2nd Amendment rights are. We use firearms not only for self-defense, but as a tool to feed our families. We also have to get at the root causes of the crime wave sweeping many Alaska communities. The opioid epidemic and gangs related to the drug trade are some. I’ve been very focused on all aspects of the opioid crisis. Two years ago, we hosted a Wellness Summit at the Mat-Su College, where hundreds of Alaskans gathered to listen, gain inspiration, learn and exchange ideas. So we are planning another Wellness Summit this summer—this time focused not just on our addiction epidemic, but on combatting the crime wave that is victimizing so many Alaskans. Stay tuned. We’ll need your help and input. Frontline of Freedom We want to be the frontline of freedom and defense for America. Given our strategic location, and our large veteran population, in many ways, Alaska seems destined to play this critical role. We are the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense, the hub of air combat power and training for the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic, and a vital expeditionary platform for some of America's best-trained troops. And we’re building on Alaska’s three military pillars. Using my seat on the Armed Services Committee, and Senator Murkowski’s position on the Appropriations Committee, in the past three years we’ve secured over $1 billion for military construction in our state—including $200 million to build a new missile field at Fort Greely as part of a broader missile defense bill I authored last year. These military investments are critical for America’s security, but they will also have the added benefit of providing good-paying jobs for hundreds if not thousands of Alaskans. The frontline of freedom in Alaska also includes some unsung heroes who don’t get the attention they deserve—the men and women of the United States Coast Guard. The Coast Guard is undergoing a major recapitalization of its fleet. As the Chairman of the Subcommittee in charge of the Coast Guard, I’ve been working with the Coast Guard’s leadership to ensure that this recapitalization will mean more Coast Guard ships, aircraft, and personnel for communities across our great state. Land of the Future We want to be a land of the future—where opportunities are unleased for our families and our children that we can’t begin to fathom today. We have a great diversity of people and cultures. We have a geography and climate worthy of study by the finest scientific minds. We have the promise of a new Arctic frontier. We have a midnight sun in the summer, and in the winter, electrically charged particles dance in our skies! We can ski to our office—on world class cross-country ski trails—that produce Olympic Gold Medalists. (Can we give a big round of applause to Kikkan.) And on the weekends, adventure beckons: we climb mountains, snow machine, fish our salmon choked rivers, pick berries on our tundra, and hunt to put food on the table. Alaska has always been a place that celebrates big ideas and big thinkers with a unique combination of frontier and entrepreneurial spirit. Let’s never lose that. Cynicism can dampen and extinguish that unique Alaska fire. Whatever we do, or don’t do, let’s not let that happen to us. So what are we doing in D.C. to keep that fire burning? Most recently, we’ve passed historic tax legislation. Middle class Alaskans will see hundreds of dollars more in take home pay each month, which will help our families offset Permanent Fund Dividend cuts. This is real money for our middle class families and workers. We should always remember that entrepreneurs can live anywhere in the country to start new businesses. Our unique attributes can attract and keep the best and most adventurous, spirited and creative people in the world. We must ensure that our policies welcome those who come North to the Future. This morning, I’ve tried to lay out a vision of what a bright future for Alaska should and could look like. I would love to hear what opportunities you are seeing across our state. One thing I know, and I think you do to: There is no limit to what we can achieve, when we nurture and cultivate our big ideas and our frontier spirit—rooted in the kind of practicality and creativity that comes from living in extreme and remote environments—the kind of practicality that built Alaska. ###
02.27.2018	02.27.18 Sullivan Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Combat Opioid Epidemic Senator joins Colleagues in Introducing CARA 2.0 Act - Increases Funding, Enhances Prescription Drug Monitoring, Addresses Challenges Unique to Alaska WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Rob Portman (R-OH), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today introduced the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) 2.0 Act, bipartisan legislation to increase the funding authorization levels for the CARA programs enacted in 2016 and put in place additional policy reforms to help combat the opioid epidemic. CARA is a bipartisan law passed in 2016 and designed to ensure that federal resources are devoted to evidence-based education, treatment and recovery programs that work. CARA 2.0 builds on this effort by increasing the funding authorization levels to better coincide with the recent budget agreement while laying out new policy reforms to strengthen the federal government’s response to this crisis. “Combating the opioid addiction crisis in Alaska continues to be one of my top priorities in the U.S. Senate,” said Senator Sullivan. “Building off the momentum of CARA, CARA 2.0 will significantly increase funding levels for evidence-based treatment programs and enhance prescription drug monitoring, while also addressing many challenges unique to Alaska, such as prioritizing highly rural areas, in the direction of funding. The scourge of addiction knows no social, economic or geographic boundary – it affects Alaskans and Americans from all walks of life. I am pleased to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that those struggling get the help they need, when they need it.” “Now that CARA has been implemented and is starting to help communities around the country, it’s time to start the discussion about reauthorizing this important federal law,” said Senator Portman. “Passage of CARA was a historic moment, the first time in decades that Congress passed comprehensive addiction legislation, and the first time Congress has ever supported long-term addiction recovery. Now we have the opportunity to build on this effort, increasing funding levels for programs we know work and implementing additional policy reforms that will make a real difference in combatting this epidemic. I want to thank Senator Whitehouse and my bipartisan colleagues for their leadership and partnership on this important national effort.” “Senator Portman’s and my comprehensive addiction bill was an important step forward in our battle against addiction,” said Senator Whitehouse. “It treats addiction for the disease that it is, and provides support for those walking the long, noble path of recovery. States like Rhode Island are already putting CARA funding and programs to good use. Now it’s time to extend CARA’s reach deeper into communities where the opioid crisis rages, and, given what we learned from people on the front lines of that crisis, add new policy reforms we know can make a difference. I’m excited to join Senator Portman and this bipartisan group of cosponsors to meld the commitments we made in the funding deal with the progress we enacted in CARA.” “We must keep up the fight against the opioid crisis in Louisiana to support healthier families and safer communities,” said Dr. Cassidy. “This legislation builds on our efforts to help those struggling with addiction recover and return to wholeness. I’m glad the Protection from Overprescribing Act is included in this bill, so law enforcement gets the information they need to identify providers who are overprescribing and fueling this crisis.” “Opioid addiction has increased exponentially in the last decade, rising to the level of a public health emergency and affecting millions of Americans across the county,” said Senator Klobuchar.“The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) has made real strides in tackling this epidemic, and CARA 2.0 will increase our investment and commitment to proven strategies for combating opioid addition. Doubling down on the opioid crisis is as critical as ever, and this bill will help more families to access the treatment and recovery services they need.” “The opioid epidemic truly is a national crisis that is affecting families and communities across the country, and in West Virginia, we’ve become far too familiar with its consequences,” Senator Capito said. “While we’ve accomplished a lot in terms of drawing attention to the drug epidemic and providing resources to help address it, it’s painfully clear that we still have a long way to go and need to be doing even more. This bipartisan legislation will help continue efforts that are critical to fighting the opioid epidemic and providing help to individuals struggling with addiction. This is an important next step in a much broader effort, and I’m confident it will bring us closer to making real progress in this fight.” “The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act 2.0 is a critical next step in our efforts to help save lives and strengthen prevention, treatment, recovery, and law enforcement efforts,” Senator Hassan said. “As part of the bipartisan budget agreement, we secured $6 billion in additional funds to combat the opioid epidemic, and this bill identifies some of the key areas that should be prioritized as we work to get funding to communities that need it most. This bill will help support additional treatment capacity and it will also help ensure that first responders are safe and well trained when responding to overdoses – a priority that I have heard about from New Hampshire public safety officials. It would also increase potential penalties on opioid manufacturers who have played a significant role in fueling this epidemic. I am grateful to Senators Rob Portman, Sheldon Whitehouse, and all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who came together to introduce this bill, and I will continue working across party lines to pass this bill without delay and strengthen our comprehensive response to this crisis.” “The opioid and heroin epidemic has afflicted every area of our society and has taken the lives of more the 10,000 Washingtonians in less than 20 years,” said Senator Cantwell. “This bipartisan bill is the next step needed to provide expanded treatment, education, and prevention to combat this growing crisis. And importantly, this legislation strengthens penalties on drug manufacturers who negligently distribute opioids in our communities.” CARA, which became law on July 22, 2016, authorized an additional $181 million for anti-opioid education, treatment and recovery programs, which were funded at $267 million for Fiscal Year 2017. The recent budget agreement includes $6 billion in additional resources for Fiscal Years 2018-2019. CARA 2.0 will build on the original law by providing an additional $1 billion in funding authorization for CARA’s evidence-based prevention, enforcement, treatment, and recovery programs: CARA 2.0 Policy Reforms: · Require physicians and pharmacists use their state prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) upon prescribing or dispensing opioids. · Makes permanent CARA’s Section 303, which allows physician assistants and nurse practitioners to prescribe buprenorphine under the direction of a qualified physician. · Allows states to waive the limit on the number of patients a physician can treat with buprenorphine so long as they follow evidence-based guidelines. There is currently a cap of 100 patients per physician. · Increases civil and criminal penalties for opioid manufacturers that fail to report suspicious orders for opioids or fail to maintain effective controls against diversion of opioids. · Creates a national standard for recovery residence to ensure quality housing for individuals in long-term recovery. · Imposes three-day limit on initial opioid prescriptions for acute pain as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), with exceptions for chronic pain or pain for other ongoing illnesses. CARA 2.0 Authorization Levels: · $10 million to fund a National Education Campaign on the dangers of prescription opioid misuse, heroin, and lethal fentanyl (up from $5 million in the original CARA). · $300 million to expand evidence-based medication-assisted treatment (up from $25 million in the original CARA). · $300 million to expand first responder training and access to naloxone (up from $12 million in the original CARA). · $200 million to build a national infrastructure for recovery support services to help individuals move successfully from treatment into long-term recovery (up from $1 million in the original CARA). · $20 million to expand Veterans Treatment Courts (up from 6$ million in the original CARA). · $100 million to expand treatment for pregnant and postpartum women, including facilities that allow children to reside with their mothers (up from $17.9 million in the original CARA). · $60 million to help states develop an Infant Plan of Safe Care to assist states, hospitals and social services to report, track and assist newborns exposed to substances and their families (no authorization in the original CARA). · $10 million for a National Youth Recovery Initiative to develop, support, and maintain youth recovery support services (no authorization in the original CARA). ###
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Sullivan Comments on Senate Immigration Proposals Washington, DC -- U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today shared the following statement after Senate consideration of four immigration related proposals: “Addressing the serious challenges in our immigration system – including a resolution for the beneficiaries of the DACA program – requires compassion, securing our border, and respect for the rule of law. To this end, I believe the Secure and Succeed Act of 2018, which I supported, was both a serious and generous proposal. Importantly, it brought a compassionate and fair resolution for DACA children who came to our country illegally through no fault of their own, while also making important reforms to border security and strengthening our legal immigration process. “Unfortunately, I could not in good faith support two other proposals put forward today. One proposal fell far short of my belief that any solution before us must include significant reforms and investments to our border security. Another, while well intentioned, would have had the effect of weakening border security and further incentivizing people to enter the country illegally – which is neither good for immigrants nor the country as a whole. “There is no doubt our country benefits from immigrants – their energy and their hard work. America is a nation of immigrants, but we must also ensure the rule of law remains the cornerstone of our immigration system. As we move forward, I am committed to establishing strong immigration policies that strengthen the economy, protect American workers, and bolster border security, while also exhibiting a level of compassion that is woven into the fabric of our nation.” ###
02.12.2018	02.12.18 Sullivan Comments on President Trump’s Infrastructure Proposal WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works and Commerce, Science and Transportation Committees, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s infrastructure proposal: “Addressing our nation’s inadequate and deteriorating infrastructure is vital as we continue to reignite America’s economy. I’m pleased to see that as part of this infrastructure proposal, the Trump administration is focused and committed to an element that I believe is crucial for success – reforming our nation’s broken public-works and environmental permitting process. Without these long overdue changes to our regulatory framework – regardless of how much money is spent – we will continue to see years-long delays, exorbitant costs, and the loss of private investment. “Earlier this year, I proudly introduced legislation – the Rebuild America Now (RAN) Act – that provides a sound and detailed blueprint for fixing this problem. That bill – much of which is reflected in the Trump administration’s proposal – provides realistic deadlines for environmental reviews, streamlines our outdated permitting process and limits unnecessary and frivolous delays. Fixing our infrastructure in the most effective, efficient way is not a Republican or Democratic issue. We should all work together to help return America to a country of builders, on time and on budget.”
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Alaskan of the Week Kirk Alkire Wins Approval for Gold Star Peak U.S. Board of Geographic Names Unanimously Approves Petition to Name Alaskan Peak in Honor of Gold Star Families WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, hours after the unanimous approval of a petition to name a 4,148-foot peak in the Chugach Mountains “Gold Star Peak” in honor of our fallen service members and their families, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor to honor the Alaskan who championed the cause – retired U.S. Army 1st Sgt. Kirk Alkire. Senator Sullivan Honoring Kirk Alkire as Alaskan of the Week (Click image or here to watch). A quest that began in June of 2017 to honor the Gold Star families of his fellow Alaska-based 4th Infantry Brigade Combat Team of the 25th Infantry Division, which lost 53 paratroopers during a 15 month deployment to Iraq during 2006 and 2007, Alkire navigated a complicated and often difficult process to name the mountain peak – garnering the support of local leaders, the Alaska Historical Commission, and leading a petition with over 1,500 signatures from all 50 states. Kirk Alkire atop what is now Gold Star Peak (click here). Alkire, who traveled to Washington, D.C. this week as part of the final push to seek approval from the Domestic Names Committee (DNC) of the U.S. Board of Geographic Names, sat in the Senate Gallery as Senator Sullivan began his weekly address – unbeknownst to him that he was the subject of the “Alaskan of the Week” series. Senator Sullivan speaking with Kirk Alkire at the 2017 Anchorage Veterans Day Parade on his efforts to name “Gold Star Peak.” TRIBUTE TO KIRK ALKIRE Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, as many of my colleagues know, I have been coming to the floor every week to do what I consider the favorite part of my duties serving here in the Senate, and that is to talk about someone special in my great State. We call that person our Alaskan of the Week. I have been told by some of my colleagues that they look forward to this, and I know the pages do, learning a little bit about Alaska. I do this because I certainly want my constituents to know about so many people in their State--what they are doing, how they are impacting not only their community or State but sometimes even the whole country. Much of what the country knows about Alaska is what they have seen on TV--beautiful glaciers, giant salmon, skiing, hiking, kayaking, boating. We want everyone to come visit Alaska. It will be the trip of a lifetime, guaranteed. The real beauty of my State rests in the people who call it home. It is a State of rugged, generous, patriotic people devoted to service to their country, their State, and their communities. In many ways, this is what this ``Alaskan of the Week'' honor is all about. When we talk about service to our country, Alaska boasts thousands and thousands of Active Duty members of the military, reservists--thousands of reservists--and tens of thousands of veterans, in fact, more veterans per capita than any other State in the country. So many of the veterans in my State have not just served their country but have devoted their time and energy in ways that so many veterans do, helping and caring for other veterans and their families. Many in the military know it is not easy to serve, but what is often forgotten is that service and the sacrifice of service, particularly military service, often hits the families the hardest. When that service results in the loss of life, the ultimate sacrifice, it is devastating for the families, friends, and loved ones all across communities, all across Alaska, and all across the country. When one of our own loses their life in the fight for freedom, we all grieve. We all grieve. Today I want to introduce a very special Alaskan, Kirk Alkire, who has devoted countless hours to make sure that those we have lost in battle will never be forgotten and that the families of those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice receive a fitting tribute to their sacrifice. Kirk believes that such a fitting tribute lies in a peak in one of Alaska's vast, beautiful, almost endless mountain ranges that we have in my great State. This is a peak that actually exists in the Chugach range between Eagle River and Palmer, AK, overlooking the Knik River. Kirk has been on a quest to name this peak the ``Gold Star Peak.'' It is actually a mountain that is unnamed right now next to another mountain that is named. That mountain is called Mount POW/MIA, but he wants to name this other mountain for the Gold Star families who have lost loved ones who were killed in action defending America. Kirk is passionate about this peak, just as he was passionate about the men and women he served with during his 23 years in the Army on Active Duty. Let me tell you a little bit about Kirk. He was born and raised in San Jose, CA. He enlisted in the Army right out of high school in 1986. He married his high school sweetheart, Angie, and they had a son, Matthew. During his time on Active Duty in the Army, like so many soldiers, particularly over the last couple decades, he had various assignments in both airborne and light infantry units spread across the United States--really with deployments all over the world--and eventually he was stationed in Alaska. His final assignment was as a first sergeant with the Alaska-based 4th Infantry Brigade Combat Team of the 25th Infantry Division, a unit that we in Alaska lovingly know as simply the 425. It is a unit that we all care about--the only airborne brigade combat team in the entire Asia Pacific, mountain-trained and arctic-tough. I had the opportunity to visit a couple thousand of those troops from the 425 who are actually serving their country in Afghanistan. These are the best of the best, and they are always forward-deployed. Kirk and the 425 deployed to Iraq for 15 months during the 2006 to 2007 surge. Kirk's brigade, during that tough, tough fighting in Iraq during that time, during the surge--one brigade combat team lost 53 paratroopers over that 15 months. Fifty-three American soldiers were killed in action from one brigade, and that doesn't even touch the numbers that were wounded in action, which were many, many more. That is a devastating number. Kirk now lives in Eagle River, AK. It is a beautiful community in the mountains overlooking Eagle River near Anchorage. Since his return, he has climbed Mount POW/MIA a few times every year to tend to the flag that exists on that peak, again out of patriotism. It was during one of those hikes that he noticed the beautiful unnamed peak right next to Mount POW/MIA, and then he knew what he needed to do. Mr. President, it is not easy to name a peak, and in Alaska, we have so many mountains that there are dozens and dozens of mountains that are still not named. It is not easy to name the peak of a mountain. So what did he do? Well, first, he secured support from members of the Eklutna Tribe, whose region in Alaska the mountain occupies, so it was a very respectful action toward our very important Native community in Alaska. He then took letters of support and a petition with over 1,500 signatures from all 50 States, 4 countries, and 1 U.S. territory, to the Alaska Historical Commission. I was one of the signors of that petition. He presented all of this to the National Geological Survey, which is part of the Department of the Interior, all to get this peak, this mountain, named for the Gold Star families, the Gold Star Peak. So he worked this hard. He worked this very hard. Today, I have the honor of announcing on the Senate floor that just this morning, the U.S. Board of Geographic Names, which is part of the Department of the Interior, which votes to name mountains, unanimously voted and approved naming that mountain in the Chugach Mountain range ``Gold Star Peak.'' That is great news. That is hard work. I am honored to have Kirk sitting up in the Gallery today after his hard work where he was working at the Department of the Interior this morning. I first met Kirk at a Veterans Day parade in Anchorage, where he told me about his quest to get the mountain peak named. That is where I signed the petition. And then I asked him--I said: Kirk, you served your country. Why are you so motivated and focused and determined to do this? Do you know what he did, Mr. President? He pulled out 53 dog tags that he had in his pocket with the names of every soldier of the 425 who was lost in Iraq in 2006 to 2007 when he was the first sergeant for that brigade. I held them in my hand. It was powerful and moving, and in some ways it was so horrible to look at because these are the lives and names of the best and brightest we have in America. That is why he did it, and that is why he was motivated. Because of Kirk and the announcement today, families--whether they are from Alaska or anywhere in America who come visit, families who have lost loved ones who made the ultimate sacrifice serving their Nation will now be able to look up at Gold Star Peak as they drive up the busy Glenn Highway in Alaska, and they will see that 4,000-foot peak soaring into the sky. All of America will know that their loved ones are not forgotten and that the service and sacrifice of the Gold Star families whom we honor are appreciated and honored by a grateful nation. So thank you, Kirk, for all the work you have put into this. Congratulations on the vote today. I can't wait to get home and see Gold Star Peak, officially named, and maybe, just maybe, get out there and summit it with you someday. Thank you for being our Alaskan of the Week. ###
02.09.2018	02.09.18 Sullivan Shares Statement on Bipartisan Budget Deal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today shared the following statement after Senate passage of the Bipartisan Budget Deal: “For months, I have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find a path forward that adequately funds our government, gives our military men and women the resources they need to complete their missions, and ensures critical programs serving the American people remain funded and operational. This bipartisan deal, while far from perfect, allows that to happen and keeps the government open. “Importantly, this legislation moves us away from a patchwork of short-term spending bills that severely undermine our military’s readiness and ability to protect our nation. It lifts the stranglehold sequestration has had on our Armed Forces, which resulted in a 25 percent cut to our military between 2010-2016. Those cuts have hampered our military’s ability to deter aggression and to respond to threats from countries like Russia and North Korea. This agreement paves the way for critical investments for our veterans, our nation’s aging infrastructure, community health centers, and efforts to combat our nation’s growing opioid epidemic – all priorities I’ve pushed for and ones shared by Alaskans and the American people. It also ensures the stationing of the F-35s at Eielson Air Force Base remains on track, and priorities I worked to secure within the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act – missile defense, force structure increases, and troop pay raises – can be adequately funded. “As I’ve repeatedly stated, the process by which we fund our federal government is broken and dysfunctional, and has been for a long time. Both political parties share responsibility for this. Addressing this challenge, this legislation importantly establishes a committee – which I advocated for – focused on addressing the root of this dysfunctional budgeting process and the fiscal challenges it creates.” ###
02.06.2018	02.06.18 Senator Sullivan Writes Etsy, Inc CEO Encouraging Change in Policies Negatively Impacting Alaska Native Artisans WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan recently wrote the CEO of Etsy, Inc – an online marketplace of crafts and handmade items – following reports that Alaska Native constituents selling products or artwork with sealskin, sea otter and ivory have had their e-commerce accounts unfairly terminated or items delisted. “I write to make you aware that Etsy has been unfairly terminating some of my Alaska Native (i.e., indigenous Alaskans) constituents’ accounts. Your company’s actions – due to your well-meaning, but frankly misguided policies and terms of service – are having unintended consequences that are harming Alaska Natives and their communities in my state,” Sullivan wrote in the letter sent February 2, 2018. Senator Sullivan – who has led efforts to protect the rights of Alaska Native artisans and continues to educate others on the negative impacts facing Alaska Native and rural economies as a result of overly-broad bans on ivory – wrote Etsy CEO Josh Silverman to raise awareness and to outline a number of unintended consequences associated with the company’s policies. “These are Alaska Natives who are legally selling sustainably harvested sealskin, sea otter, and ivory based art and clothing products. I understand your company has taken the position through your policy that these are “prohibited items.” This policy seems to lack awareness and recognition that Alaska Natives have historically and legally created and sold these products as a key source of income in rural economies,” wrote Senator Sullivan. “This policy also discriminates against my constituents, denies them a prime forum to sell their sustainably produced goods, and falls short of your company’s stated mission. You claim “Etsy is the global marketplace for unique and creative goods … [and your] mission is to Keep Commerce Human.” By banning these products and denying Alaska Natives’ ability to exercise their statutory right to produce and sell authentic articles of handicrafts and clothing, your company is failing to live up to this mission by inadvertently discriminating against Alaska Natives’ age-old traditions and denying a market and financial development to remote Alaskans practicing their legal and cultural heritage.” “Your prohibition without recognizing the legal production and sale of these items by Alaskan Natives is disheartening and shortsighted,” Sullivan wrote. “Worse yet, Etsy explicitly allows the sale of items made from human teeth and hair. To recognize a market for these “human remains” on your site while failing to account for unique and century’s old cultural practices of Alaska Natives seems to be an odd way to ‘Keep Commerce Human.’” Senator Sullivan closed his letter with a simple, but important request of Etsy: “reconsider your policies to recognize sales of Alaska Natives’ legal and tradition cultural and art.” “While we can all agree that measures must be taken to combat elephant poaching and protect various species of marine mammals, harming Alaska’s rich cultural traditions and rural economies will do little to achieve additional conservation benefits…,” the letter said. “I urge you to consider the impacts that your policies—including your decision to terminate my constituents’ accounts—are having on Alaskans, in particular Alaska Natives. Finally, I ask that you reconsider your policies to recognize sales of Alaska Natives’ legal and tradition cultural and art.” Background: In October 2016, Senator Sullivan convened a Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee field hearing at the Alaska Federation of Natives Convention to discuss a series of reported problems and confusion surrounding state laws across the country that prohibit ivory sales and harm Alaska Native artisans. Following the hearing – working with Alaska Native leaders and those negatively impacted by these bans – Senator Sullivan introduced S. 1965, the Allowing Alaska IVORY Act. This legislation, cosponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski, would preempt states from banning walrus ivory or whale bone products that have been legally carved by Alaska Natives under the Marine Mammal Protection Act; in addition to preempting states from issuing bans on mammoth ivory products. View the full text of the letter here. ###
02.02.2018	02.02.18 Sullivan Honored to Announce 2018 Military Service Academy Nominations WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) had the honor and privilege of nominating 33 outstanding young Alaskans to four of our country’s U.S. Military Service Academies. “This year’s selection of candidates was exceptional – all exhibited the characteristics that will help them to succeed as leaders in our nation’s military: academic excellence, demonstrated leadership, and a commitment to serving their community and nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “Nominating candidates for our nation’s outstanding Military Service Academies is one of my favorite things to do as a U.S. Senator. The backgrounds and experiences of these young Alaskans is humbling – I am so impressed with this field of exceptional future leaders who want to serve their country. It is an honor to be a part of this process.” These nominations allow the applicants to compete for appointments to the academies. Appointments are offered individually by the academies. Senator Sullivan’s Class of 2022 U.S. Military Service Academy nominees are as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy: Nathan Alfano – Anchorage* Hunter Bleakney – Palmer Tamara Brabson – Eagle River Marguerite Flynn – Juneau Derek Jensen - JBER Nolan Johnson – Eagle River* Kade Leonard – Eielson AFB Makinna Olmstead – Eagle River Emily Rivera – Kodiak Garrett Smoot – JBER* U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Garrett Anderson – Palmer* Philip Andress IV – Anchorage* Ryan Chastain – Palmer* Nolan Johnson – Eagle River* Carter Kreischer – Kodiak Anders Marius – Sitka Colton Ramsey – Fort Wainwright Vince Tenebro – Ketchikan* U.S. Military Academy: Nathan Alfano – Anchorage* Mallori Allen – Wasilla Garrett Anderson – Palmer* Ryan Chastain – Palmer* Hanna Fitzgerald – Eagle River David Hwang – Fort Wainwright Nolan Johnson – Eagle River* Michael Lucero - Fairbanks Bradley Mackin – Anchorage Christopher Orta – Anchorage Cody Quelland - Soldotna Victoria Slaven – Eagle River* Garrett Smoot – JBER* Calvin Strong – Kenai Rebecca Syrup – Anchorage Vince Tenebro – Ketchikan* U.S. Naval Academy: Garrett Anderson – Palmer* Philip Andress IV – Anchorage* Ryan Chastain – Palmer* Robert Hilder – Craig Caleb Hopkins – Palmer Madison Maroney – Anchorage Nicolas Osborne – Eagle River Wade Quigley – Girdwood Alexander Schuerch – Anchorage Victoria Slaven – Eagle River* *Received more than one nomination from Senator Sullivan Senator Sullivan’s Academy Review Board, comprised of nine members from across Alaska and many of whom are service academy graduates, reviewed the applications, interviewed each of the applicants, and recommended individuals for nomination. “I am honored once again by the board’s participation and dedication. They volunteered countless hours reviewing applications, interviewing candidates, and discussing the qualifications of potential nominees,” said Senator Sullivan. “I am thankful for the breadth of expertise they brought to this process to nominate young Alaskans to become the next leaders of the world’s most esteemed military. I was also pleased to welcome two new members to the board this cycle, Retired Lt. Colonel Anita Baker (USMA) and Mrs. Amy Woodward (USNA).” Senator Sullivan’s 2018 Service Academy Selection Board: Anita Baker - Anchorage Eric Feige – Chickaloon Grace Greene – Girdwood Win Gruening – Juneau Dan Kennedy – Wasilla Butch Stein – Fairbanks Bill Thomas – Haines Amy Woodward – Eagle River Kathlene Rowell – Staff director for nominations The Alaska Congressional Delegation works closely with one another to maximize the opportunities for Alaska’ men and women to receive nominations to the academies. NOTE: The U.S. Coast Guard Academy does not require a Congressional nomination for their application. ###
02.01.2018	02.01.18 Sullivan Statement on Under Secretary of State Tom Shannon’s Retirement WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, WV – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement regarding Under Secretary of State Tom Shannon’s announcement that he will be retiring later this year: “Tom Shannon’s leadership over the past 35 years has been an invaluable contribution to the greater foreign policy discussion here in the Senate and across the globe,” said Senator Sullivan. “From engaging with Members of the Foreign Service Caucus, to his countless contributions throughout his career – serving as Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Ambassador to Brazil, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs, and Director for Inter-American Affairs at the National Security Council – Tom has been a steadfast voice at the State Department. He epitomizes the professional staff of the Department that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle should be strongly supporting. He is not only a true public servant, but a good friend. I wish him well in his retirement.” Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) is the co-founder of the Senate Foreign Service Caucus – a bipartisan forum for members to discuss the challenges facing those who serve in the U.S. Foreign Service around the world, and collaborate and develop policy recommendations on how they can best support them and the U.S. diplomatic mission abroad. ###
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Sullivan Comments on President Trump’s First State of the Union Address Senator Highlights President’s Tone, Focus on America’s Economy, Call For New Infrastructure and Permitting Reform, Efforts to Tackle Opioid Crisis, National Security, and Reverence for our Nation’s Heroes WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) shared the following video message after President Trump’s first State of the Union address: Sullivan Shares Thoughts Following President Trump's First State of the Union (click image or here to watch, click here to download). ###
01.26.2018	01.26.18 SULLIVAN HONORS ALASKANS OF THE WEEK: ALASKA PACIFIC UNIVERSITY NORDIC SKI TEAM WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recognized the Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Team as part of his “Alaskan of the Week” series. Sullivan Honors APU Nordic Ski Team as Alaskans of the Week on the U.S. Senate Floor (click image or here to watch). RECOGNIZING THE ALASKA PACIFIC UNIVERSITY NORDIC SKI TEAM Mr. President, every week, I have been coming to the floor, going on 2 years now, to talk about what makes my State, the great State of Alaska, such an amazing place to live--gorgeous, untouched mountains, the glaciers, the wildlife. I have live web cams in my office. For people who want to see the bears, walruses, the salmon spawning, bears scooping up these amazing fish from the choked streams, please come on by. Most of that happens during the spring, summer, and fall. The winter, of course, is the longest season in Alaska. In my opinion, it is one of the best times to experience our State. For those watching on TV or in the Gallery, we want to welcome you to Alaska. Come on by. You will have the trip of a lifetime. I guarantee it. It is truly the people who make my State such a truly special place. What we try to do each week is talk about some of those people in what we have termed our ``Alaskan of the Week'' celebration, to talk about community, to talk about so many Alaskans who are helping not only their State and their community but their country, generous yet tough and competitive people who make up our Wonderful State. Many of them get very excited when the snow starts to fall. They strap on their skis and they fly through the snow. One group of Alaskans who every winter strap on their skis and train--actually train all year round and compete on the hundreds of miles of Anchorage's trail system--is the Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Program. Hands down, it is the very best ski team in America. They are our Alaskans of the Week. Let me tell you a little bit about the APU Nordic Ski Program. Led by Coach Erik Flora, Alaska's APU Nordic Ski team year after year produces some of our Nation's finest athletes, who compete in races all across the world, including the upcoming Winter Olympics in Korea. As I mentioned, year after year, APU athletes are simply the best cross-country skiers in the Nation. Their depth of talent was put on display earlier this month at the U.S. Cross Country Championships in Anchorage, where they took 11 out of the 24 podium spots in the senior races and 8 out of the 24 junior podium spots. Think about that. One team dominated the U.S. Cross Country Championships this year. They train year-round. In the summer, the ski team trains on Eagle Glacier, accessible by a 10-minute helicopter ride from Girdwood, AK. As the Anchorage Daily News put it, this unique training area has ``been a springboard to APU's international and domestic success [and dominance]. Flora and his staff have groomed serpentined, undulating trails there that mimic [international] courses'' on a glacier in Alaska in the summer. That is great training. It is year-round. In addition to training and coaching these world-class athletes, the APU Nordic Ski Center also has a popular junior program, which helps develop the next generation of Olympic skiers. I have had the honor to get to know some of these skiers, these wonderful athletes, over the past few years. They certainly would make Alaskans proud, but I think they would make all Americans proud. They are great young men and women who are dedicated, disciplined, humble, hard-working, and very smart. They are students; they are very, very good students. I even had the opportunity to go and train with them occasionally. I am more of a downhill skier than a cross-country skier. I went with them in the fall, when there wasn't any snow on the ground, to do some mountain interval training, running with them up and down the mountains. To witness and train with these world-class athletes was an amazing experience. I must admit, it was a difficult experience for me. I think I was smoked after about 10 minutes with them, and they had about a 2-hour workout session on the mountain. It gave me a sense of how hard they work and what dedicated, world-class athletes we have in my hometown. Next month, several of these APU skiers will travel to Korea to represent the United States of America at the Winter Olympics, the way they have in previous Olympics. They are top skiers for America. Let me name a few. First and I would say foremost, Kikkan Randall, America's most decorated cross-country skier in U.S. history and an Alaskan icon--she will participate in her fifth Winter Olympics. Let me say that again. She will participate in her fifth Winter Olympics. That is an incredible record for any American athlete, winter or summer games. She is also a wonderful person. She is very, very community-oriented. Alongside her will be APU teammates Sadie and Erik Bjornsen--they are brother and sister--Rosie Brennan, and maybe, hopefully, even a few more. Additionally, their APU teammate Jess Yeaton, who was born in Australia but grew up in Alaska, will ski for the Australian cross-country ski team. You are getting the picture. This is a group of people who are going to do very, very well in the Olympics and are going to represent our country and other countries proudly. Cross-country skiing is woven into the fabric of Alaska's winter community. It brings people together, and it helps build community. So many of our skiers, including and especially the APU team, are also generous and kind in helping others learn how to ski and graciously host skiers from all across the country, as was on full display during the recent U.S. Cross Country Championships. On behalf of all Alaskans--really, on behalf of all U.S. Senators--I wish the team good luck in Korea. We will be watching. I know you will make Alaskans and our fellow Americans very proud as you compete on the world stage once again. Once again, thanks for all you do. Thanks for your tremendous hard work and dedication. And to the APU Nordic ski team, thanks again for being our Alaskans of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
01.26.2018	01.26.18 Sullivan Questions Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger on North Korea Kissinger Shares First Public Statement on “War with Korea” WASHINGTON, DC – During yesterday’s hearing of the Senate Armed Service Committee, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) questioned former Secretary of State Dr. Henry Kissinger on the immediate threat and near-term challenges from a war with North Korea and likely impact on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. According to Dr. Kissinger, it was his first time speaking publicly on the issue. Senator Sullivan Questioning Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger on North Korea (click image or here to watch). At the hearing, Senator Sullivan – who has consistently expressed his support for an AUMF from Congress ahead of a pre-emptive ground war on the Korean Peninsula – said that the Trump administration has put out a “red line” against North Korea getting a nuclear tipped intercontinental ballistic missile. As a result, Senator Sullivan said, “The [coming] fork in the road is either some kind of preemptive military option to prevent that capability with all its inherent risks, or an increasingly tight sanctions regime, perhaps with a naval blockade that would address clamping down on North Korea even more, with China’s help hopefully and addressing the issue of proliferation… can you give us your sense on that fork in the road? Is that a false choice? How would you be thinking about that issue?” Former Secretary of State Speaking on North Korea (click image or here to watch) “We will hit that fork in the road,” Dr. Kissinger replied, “and the temptation to deal with it with a preemptive attack is strong, and the argument is rational. But in any event…I would be very concerned by a unilateral American war at the borders of China and Russia in which we are not supported by a significant part of the world, or at least of the Asian world.” Kissinger then elaborated on the repercussions of letting Kim Jong Un retain his nuclear and ballistic missile programs. “We better get used to the fact that…South Korea will not accept being the only Korea that has no nuclear weapon, that relates to similar trends in Japan, and then we're living in a new world in which technically competent countries with adequate command structures are possessing nuclear weapons in an area in which there are considerable national disagreements. That is a new world that will require new thinking [about] our whole deterrent posture…” Kissinger concluded by saying, “I support the administration's objective…but when we get to your question, we have to do some prayerful thinking. To fight a war at the border of China and Russia without some agreement with them, alone, that is a big decision. And, I’m telling you my doubt in my thinking in a policy I agree with bringing pressure on North Korea, and I agree with the statements the administration has made up to now. But, and I have not stated this publicly before -- but if you ask me directly, what do I think of a war with Korea, this is what I think.” Kissinger testified on global challenges and U.S. national security strategy alongside fellow foreign policy titans George Shultz, who was President Ronald Reagan’s secretary of state, and Richard Armitage, a former deputy secretary of state for President George W. Bush. ###
01.26.2018	01.26.18 Delegation Urges Interior to Keep Chukchi, Beaufort, and Cook Inlet in New Offshore Program Calls for Robust Public Consultation to Deliver Strongest Possible Final Program Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke to provide comment on the Alaska-specific offshore areas in the Draft Proposed Program (DPP) for Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas leasing for 2019-2024 that should be included in its Final Proposed Program. “We commend you for taking an inclusive approach that allows for meaningful public input as you determine where responsible development should occur on our nation’s Outer Continental Shelf,” the delegation wrote. “For far too long, arbitrary and unilateral executive actions have undermined the open process that Congress established through the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. This has harmed states like Alaska, where tens of millions of acres of waters were previously closed without public input, consultation, or support. “We strongly support the inclusion of the Chukchi and Beaufort planning areas in the Draft Proposed Program (DPP) and encourage you to maintain three lease sales in each area over the 2019-2024 period. At the same time, given the diversity of stakeholders in this region, we urge you to commit your Department to meaningful consultation with local communities. “We ask that you maintain the two lease sales the DPP envisions in the Cook Inlet planning area. While a mature basin, this area continues to provide an important supply of affordable energy for communities throughout southcentral Alaska. “We believe the strongest near-term offshore program in Alaska is one that focuses on the Chukchi, Beaufort, and Cook Inlet. Such a program will maximize agency resources and reflect the areas with the broadest support for development among Alaskans. Accordingly, we ask that you remove potential sales in the Hope Basin, Norton Basin, St. Matthew-Hall, Navarin Basin, Aleutian Basin, Bowers Basin, Aleutian Arc, St. George Basin, Shumagin, Kodiak, and Gulf of Alaska from the DPP.” A copy of the letter can be found here. The DPP is the initial step in the decision making process and the first opportunity for public comment on the draft program. Areas that are included in the draft program may be included in the final, but areas that are excluded from the DPP, like the North Aleutian Basin, are excluded from further consideration in this five year program. The DPP was published in the Federal Register earlier this month, and the deadline for public comments is March 9, 2018. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) is conducting public meetings with local stakeholders across the country, including one in Anchorage, Alaska on February 21. The DPP proposes 19 lease sales in Alaska’s OCS, including three sales in the Chukchi Sea, three sales in the Beaufort Sea, two sales in Cook Inlet, and one sale each in 11 other program areas. BOEM recently increased its estimate for the Beaufort Sea by 700 million barrels to a total of 8.9 billion barrels, while the Chukchi Sea is estimated to contain 15.4 billion barrels. The Cook Inlet is a mature basin but remains a critical source of natural gas for Southcentral Alaska. ###
01.24.2018	01.24.18 Sullivan Applauds Administration for Extending Opioid Emergency Declaration WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on the Trump administration’s move late last week to extend the opioid public health emergency declaration, which was set to expire yesterday. “I applaud the Trump administration for extending the emergency declaration, which provides federal agencies the flexibility to address this devastating epidemic,” Senator Sullivan said. “I will continue to work with the administration and my colleagues in the Senate to push for more funding to combat this crisis, and to get those resources to states and local governments who are closer to the people. “This crisis knows no boundaries. It’s affecting so many in our state. We must all continue to work together to get those who are suffering from addiction the help they need, and to get the drugs out of the hands of those who profit from addiction and misery.” Background: In October of 2015, eight Alaska women who struggle with addiction visited with Senator Sullivan in his Washington, DC office, and served as the inspiration for the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis. In 2016, Senator Sullivan hosted the Summit, which featured the former U.S. Surgeon General and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Deputy Secretary. Over the last two years, Senator Sullivan has supported, and Congress has passed, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), and the 21st Century Cures Act – which included $1 billion over two years for states to combat the opioid crisis. ###
01.23.2018	01.23.18 Sullivan Comments on DOD National Defense Strategy WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement on the 2018 National Defense Strategy (NDS), announced last week by Secretary of Defense James Mattis. “I applaud Secretary Mattis’ 2018 National Defense Strategy, which I hope will help refocus our military on warfighting and the process of rebuilding the force, deepening and expanding alliances, and improving Department of Defense business practices,” said Senator Sullivan. “I was also very pleased to see that modernizing our missile defenses – something which I’ve worked on extensively – was included in the NDS as a key modernization effort.” Sullivan highlighted two new elements in the National Defense Strategy that previous Obama-era strategies lacked. “This strategy finally addresses the fact that the U.S. is currently engaged in a long-term strategic competition with both Russia and China,” Sullivan said. “It also prioritizes Department of Defense resources towards a more lethal, advanced, and decisive force to begin countering these two strategic competitors, something that is long overdue.” The NDS strategy, a requirement of the National Defense Authorization Act, also emphasizes forward military presence, the increased need for joint force training against near-peer adversaries, and the critical requirement for more missile defense. “Alaskans well know that our state’s strategic location, the amazing training in JPARC, and the vital role that Fort Greely plays in protecting the homeland, are all critical ways in which the Department of Defense can fulfill the needs outlined in the 2018 NDS,” said Sullivan. “That’s a large part of the reason why we’ve been able to authorize over $1 billion in military construction for our state over the last three years.” During his speech unveiling the NDS, Secretary Mattis said, “This is an American strategy. It belongs to you. You own it” – words which drew praise from Senator Sullivan. “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I could not agree more with the Secretary’s words; this is an American strategy, one that reflects American values held by the American people. It envisions – for the long-term – an international, rules-based order, safeguarded by those American values. And it seeks to guarantee a peaceful, prosperous, and secure world though diplomatic means backed by credible military options,” said Sullivan. ###
01.22.2018	01.22.18 Sullivan Votes for Bipartisan Measure to Reopen Federal Government WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement after voting in favor of a Continuing Resolution (CR) to reopen the federal government and extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years: “Today, an overwhelming majority in the Senate voted to end the government shutdown and to continue the broader negotiations on a long-term spending measure. This shutdown was entirely avoidable – something made clearer by the fact that what we passed today was basically the same agreement that had been proposed since Friday. Regardless, I’m pleased to see both sides of the aisle come together to reach an agreement to ensure our military and federal workers continue to get paid, critical functions of government continue, and thousands of children across Alaska and the country get the healthcare they need through the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) – which will be extended for six years. “As we move forward, I will be closely working with my colleagues on issues related to immigration reform, including DACA and stronger border security. More broadly, I will continue to work with a bipartisan group to reform what for too long has been a broken budgetary process, which has consisted of short-term funding measures (continuing resolutions) and massive end of year omnibus packages. The American people deserve better.” ###
01.22.2018	01.22.18 Delegation Hails Landmark Agreement for Life-Saving Road Interior Department, King Cove Sign Land Exchange Agreement Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statements after the Department of the Interior and the King Cove Corp. signed an agreement authorizing a small land exchange needed to construct a short, gravel, life-saving road that will connect King Cove, Alaska to the all-weather airport in nearby Cold Bay. “Common sense and compassion have finally prevailed,” Murkowski said. “For decades, the people of King Cove have asked for what virtually every other American already takes for granted—a reliable way to protect their health and safety and improve their quality of life. Previous administrations have focused on just about everything except the most obvious solution, which has always been a short, gravel connector road. I am so pleased for King Cove and deeply grateful to Secretary Zinke and President Trump for taking this critical step.” “For years, our federal government has been telling the people of King Cove that protecting birds is more important than their health and safety,” Sullivan said. “This ends today. I thank Congressman Young and Senator Murkowski for all their hard work over the years to right this wrong. I thank the Trump administration for its support, and I particularly thank Secretary Zinke for listening to the people of King Cove, whose voices have been ignored all of these many years. This is a good day for Alaska and a good day for America.” “I have been working with the residents of King Cove for over 30 years to help them get a life-saving road to the community of Cold Bay. This is a great day not only for King Cove, but for all of Alaska,” Young said. “In 2013, Sally Jewell decided that birds were more important than people, and today we finally have a Secretary who takes the life and death of Alaska Natives seriously. I want to thank Secretary Zinke on behalf of all Alaskans for his work in getting the King Cove road approved. I look forward to working with him on other issues for our great state.” The King Cove Corp. is comprised of Alaska Natives from two Aleut tribes who have lived in the region for millennia. A lifelong resident, member of the local Agdaagux tribe, and community spokesperson, Della Trumble, signed the agreement on behalf of King Cove today with Secretary Zinke. “The land exchange agreement with the Interior Department represents a major milestone in our decades-long fight to protect our families and secure our access to safe, reliable transportation options in an emergency. This is truly a matter of life and death to us and we are extremely grateful to Sen. Murkowski and the entire delegation for standing with us for all these years,” Trumble said. “Above all, the federal government's job is to keep our people safe and respect our treaty commitments with Native Americans and Alaska Natives, today I am proudly fulfilling both of those missions,” Secretary Zinke said. “Previous administrations prioritized birds over human lives, and that's just wrong. The people of King Cove have been stewarding the land and wildlife for thousands of years and I am confident that working together we will be able to continue responsible stewardship while also saving precious lives.” King Cove is located between two volcanic mountains near the end of the Alaska Peninsula, about 625 miles southwest of Anchorage. The small gravel airstrip in King Cove is typically closed more than 100 days each year by strong winds, turbulence, fog, rain, and other severe weather. Even flights that are not canceled are routinely delayed by dangerous conditions. By comparison, the all-weather airport in Cold Bay, which is less than 30 miles away from King Cove, is home to one of the longest runways in the state and closed an average of just 10 days per year. For more information about the land exchange, please visit the Department of the Interior’s website.
01.21.2018	01.21.18 Sullivan Shares Update and Message with Alaskans on Federal Government Shutdown WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today shared the following message with Alaskans on the second day of the federal government shutdown: Senator Sullivan discussing the shutdown of the federal government with Alaskans (click above or here to watch). ###
01.20.2018	01.20.18 Sullivan Statement on Democrats Voting to Shut Down the Federal Government WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after Senate Democrats voted to shut down the federal government: “Tonight, we saw a manufactured crisis officially turn into a government shutdown – something that was absolutely preventable. The bipartisan bill we considered tonight, which funded the government until February 16th, was voted down not for the items it contained, but for what was not included – a long term agreement on immigration for which we still have weeks to resolve. I simply fail to understand the logic behind the Minority Leader’s decision to shut down the government. Passage of the Continuing Resolution (CR) tonight would have continued the essential functions of government, provided critical funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for thousands of Alaskan children for six years, and given Congress an opportunity to address a long term spending measure. “As work continues, I am hopeful that we can find a solution to reopen the government. The American people, particularly our veterans and troops, deserve better. Please know, my office stands ready to assist Alaskans, including those negatively impacted by this unnecessary government shutdown.” ###
01.18.2018	01.18.18 Bipartisan Group of Senators Urges FinCEN to Stay the Course on Cannabis Banking Forcing businesses to operate in all-cash increases risk of crime, threatens public safety A bipartisan group of Senators, including Alaska Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski, today urged the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) to keep in place guidance that has enabled some financial institutions to provide banking services for legitimate cannabis businesses in states that have legalized medical or recreational cannabis. In addition to Sullivan and Murkowski, today’s letter to FinCEN Director Kenneth Blanco was signed by Sens. Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Rand Paul (R-KY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Edward J. Markey (D-MA). “We urge FinCEN to preserve this guidance to continue to support banking infrastructure and access to financial institutions for businesses that are operating in accordance with state and local law and abiding by 8 other stated factors in your guidance,” the Senators wrote. “FinCEN’s stated priorities have allowed such businesses to conduct commerce more safely through financial institutions which reduces the use of all cash, improves public safety, and reduces fraud…. This guidance must remain intact because the risks involved in removing it are too great.” The Senators’ letter follows Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ attack earlier this month on states’ rights to set their own cannabis laws. The Sessions decision throws into chaos years of work to create a safer, more stable market, and threatens to drive cannabis sales back underground into the dangerous black market. The full text of the letter is below. January 18, 2018 The Honorable Kenneth A. Blanco, Director Financial Crimes Enforcement Network U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Director Blanco, We are writing to express our continuing support for the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) guidance from 2014 on the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) Expectations Regarding Marijuana-Related Businesses. This guidance was developed and issued in conjunction with the Department of Justice and has provided much needed stability to a growing market. We urge FinCEN to preserve this guidance to continue to support banking infrastructure and access to financial institutions for businesses that are operating in accordance with state and local law and abiding by 8 other stated factors in your guidance. FinCEN’s stated priorities have allowed such businesses to conduct commerce more safely through financial institutions which reduces the use of all cash, improves public safety, and reduces fraud. Leaving your guidance unchanged will continue to encourage small companies to make investments by freeing up access to capital. It will also further provide for well regulation and oversight through suspicious activity reports. Rescinding this guidance would inject uncertainty in the financial markets. Attempts to disrupt this market are dangerous and imprudent. We see the removal of protections on financial institutions, which are operating in accordance with state laws, as a poor alternative to creating meaningful policy though the political process. This guidance must remain intact because the risks involved in removing it are too great. We believe any move to eliminate revoke or change the 2014 guidance is unwise. We ask you stay the current course, a proven method that both encourages safe commerce and discourages illegitimate markets. Sincerely,
01.18.2018	01.18.18 Bipartisan Group of Senators Urges FinCEN to Stay the Course on Cannabis Banking Forcing businesses to operate in all-cash increases risk of crime, threatens public safety A bipartisan group of Senators, including Alaska Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski, today urged the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) to keep in place guidance that has enabled some financial institutions to provide banking services for legitimate cannabis businesses in states that have legalized medical or recreational cannabis. In addition to Sullivan and Murkowski, today’s letter to FinCEN Director Kenneth Blanco was signed by Sens. Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Rand Paul (R-KY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Edward J. Markey (D-MA). “We urge FinCEN to preserve this guidance to continue to support banking infrastructure and access to financial institutions for businesses that are operating in accordance with state and local law and abiding by 8 other stated factors in your guidance,” the Senators wrote. “FinCEN’s stated priorities have allowed such businesses to conduct commerce more safely through financial institutions which reduces the use of all cash, improves public safety, and reduces fraud…. This guidance must remain intact because the risks involved in removing it are too great.” The Senators’ letter follows Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ attack earlier this month on states’ rights to set their own cannabis laws. The Sessions decision throws into chaos years of work to create a safer, more stable market, and threatens to drive cannabis sales back underground into the dangerous black market. The full text of the letter is below. January 18, 2018 The Honorable Kenneth A. Blanco, Director Financial Crimes Enforcement Network U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Director Blanco, We are writing to express our continuing support for the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) guidance from 2014 on the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) Expectations Regarding Marijuana-Related Businesses. This guidance was developed and issued in conjunction with the Department of Justice and has provided much needed stability to a growing market. We urge FinCEN to preserve this guidance to continue to support banking infrastructure and access to financial institutions for businesses that are operating in accordance with state and local law and abiding by 8 other stated factors in your guidance. FinCEN’s stated priorities have allowed such businesses to conduct commerce more safely through financial institutions which reduces the use of all cash, improves public safety, and reduces fraud. Leaving your guidance unchanged will continue to encourage small companies to make investments by freeing up access to capital. It will also further provide for well regulation and oversight through suspicious activity reports. Rescinding this guidance would inject uncertainty in the financial markets. Attempts to disrupt this market are dangerous and imprudent. We see the removal of protections on financial institutions, which are operating in accordance with state laws, as a poor alternative to creating meaningful policy though the political process. This guidance must remain intact because the risks involved in removing it are too great. We believe any move to eliminate revoke or change the 2014 guidance is unwise. We ask you stay the current course, a proven method that both encourages safe commerce and discourages illegitimate markets. Sincerely,
01.15.2018	01.15.18 Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Commemoration Speech Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Commemoration SpeechAs Prepared1/14/2018 Thank you for the distinct honor to celebrate a date that memorializes one of America’s greatest citizens. There are so many to thank. Pastor May, many thanks for inviting me to this very important event. I am very honored to be onstage with so many of Alaska’s civil rights leaders. Now I must say that watching Mr. Heartwell and listening to this wonderful choir, I'm reminded of some remarks I made recently on the Senate floor. Each week I recognize an extraordinary Alaskan who has served their community in an exemplary manner. I go to the floor and essentially brag about this person I call the Alaskan of the Week. A few months ago, it was Pastor Alonzo Patterson. I won’t repeat the speech here—you all know what he has done for decades and why he certainly deserved the honor. But in that speech I said that I’d be going home that weekend to attend Pastor Patterson’s final service as pastor at Shiloh in Anchorage. I said I was looking forward to listening once again to the power and spirit and beauty of the choir and congregation at Shiloh Baptist Church and their shouts of “Amen!” during the service.During my speech I let a few “Amens!” go on the Senate floor. Well, the Senate is kind of a staid place. A lot of wide eyes were looking at me. I’m not sure they had heard “Amens!” like that on the floor before. But the truth is, I know I didn’t do the choir or Shiloh’s congregation justice with my shouts. I also just went to a New Season Christian Center Service this morning with Pastor Tom Leonard—I know I didn’t do them justice, either. You see, I’m Catholic—and when we really want to show some spirit in our masses we do what Catholics view as radical. We break out a guitar. We even have a name for it—a guitar mass. But when the Shiloh Baptist or New Season choir wants to show some spirit, there is no doubt the heavens hear the beautiful singing, loud and clear. So thanks to all of you, Mr. Heartwell, Pastor Patterson, Pastor Parker, and Pastor Leonard, for keeping Anchorage in open communication between heaven and earth.There have been so many wonderful speakers today, with so many powerful words. When I was thinking of my remarks, I thought, “What do I have to share? What do I have to add?” To be honest, I was very honored but also nervous. But if Dr. King taught us anything, it’s that we all have stories to tell. They may not be big stories. They may be quiet stories. “Find a voice in a whisper,” he told us. Sometimes that whisper comes through history, from the people who came before you, or the people you’ve worked with. It occurred to me that there are stories all around me, especially because the place I work has been the center stage not only for much of American history, but also for the greatest debates on the defining moral issue of our country: slavery and the struggle for civil rights. Some of these debates turned out to be more than verbal sparring. For Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner, a fierce abolitionist, one such debate almost killed him. In 1856, after he gave a powerful speech denouncing slavery, a Congressman from South Carolina came up behind him and beat him nearly to death with a cane on the floor of the U.S. Senate. He never fully recovered.There are still physical scars on the Senate floor from the fight over slavery. The 100 desks of the Senate are old and steeped with tradition and history. The desk where Senator Jefferson Davis from Mississippi, who left the Senate to become president of the Confederacy during the Civil War, is still in use on the floor of the Senate. It is always occupied by the senior Senator from Mississippi. If you look closely at the desk, it has a plug a few inches long—a scar from the time Union soldiers from Massachusetts, in 1861, camped in the Senate chamber and one of the officers sought out Jefferson Davis’ desk and shoved his saber right through it. Most appropriately, a floor below the Senate is a rotunda with the statues of our most important Americans—founding fathers, Abraham Lincoln, Susan B. Anthony, and, of course, Martin Luther King, Jr. Dr. King told us that the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice. Perhaps more than any place in America, the U.S. Senate is where that arc has bent, collapsed and risen again. Sometimes, the arc is right in front of you. You can see it rising to the heavens, and you can see it bow down back to the earth as plain as day. Other times we don’t even know that we’re witness to the arc until much later in life. And of course, this arc symbolizes the progress, and yes the setbacks, in the centuries-old struggle for civil rights in America. In my life, there have been times when the progress has been so comprehensive and in plain sight that I didn’t realize it until much later, but other times it’s been right before my eyes, and I knew it. Let me provide a few examples.Like many of you, I’ve served in the military for two decades. I’ve never really thought much about the military in civil rights terms. Later in my life I realized that the Marine Corps, like the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard, is an institution where, at its very heart, it doesn’t matter what the color of your skin is, what religion you practice, or what part of the socioeconomic ladder you occupy. The military isn’t perfect. Like all institutions, it has within it many imperfect people. But its fundamental ethos is this: when you’re a Marine, you’re not a black Marine, or a white Marine, or a Hispanic Marine or a Native Alaskan Marine. You’re just a United States Marine. As Marines, this ethos has made us stronger. It has made us tougher. And it has made us better.The first rifle platoon I commanded as a young second lieutenant was about one-third white, one-third black, and one-third Hispanic. My platoon sergeant was an African-American Marine named Willis Towns. He was outstanding in every way. I learned so much from him about leadership. His dream in life was to be the first African-American Sergeant Major of the entire Marine Corps. He never reached that goal. A few weeks after I attended a Martin Luther King, Jr. ceremony with him in which he received an award for his leadership in the community, he was killed in a training accident.That was the worst day of my life. In my small world, the arc of justice dimmed a lot that day. But it didn’t dim for long, for just a few years later the Marine Corps named another outstanding African-American Marine to be Sergeant Major of the Corps.I remember thinking at the time when the announcement came out—Willis, you did this. Congratulations. The U.S. military’s emphasis on mission accomplished, very tough training standards that must be met by each individual, and working together to achieve a greater good, fits very closely with what Dr. King taught, which is that we are “all tied in a single garment of destiny,” or much less elegantly, as a tough Marine Corps drill instructor was reported to have shouted at his raw recruits on day one of boot camp: “There is no racial bigotry here. In my eyes you are all equally worthless! My orders are to weed out all non-hackers who cannot serve my beloved Corps. Do you maggots understand that?” One of the great things about Alaska’s African-American community and its leaders is that it has so many veterans. Can I ask all veterans in the room to stand to be recognized for their service and to thank them for making the U.S. military one of the most important, but in some ways, unrecognized, civil rights organizations in America? Another time in my life when the arc of justice had shone so bright, but I didn’t recognize it was during the five years in which I worked for former Secretary of State and National Security Advisor Dr. Condoleezza Rice—another incredible leader, who is so well respected by so many, not just in America but around the world.I remember in particular an event at the United Nations in New York City where I staffed her in a meeting with all of Europe’s foreign ministers. After this meeting, almost every one of these powerful foreign ministers from over 20 countries waited in line to talk with her and snap a photo. They were almost elbowing each other to stand next to her. I was right behind her watching all of this with immense pride, but not as a moment of civil rights progress, but simply as an American. She was my boss, and I thought the world of her. Only later did I reflect on the broader civil rights symbolism—a daughter of the segregated South—raised in Birmingham, Alabama—during the height of the struggle for civil rights, with sit-in’s, riots and even bombings happening in her city. Condoleezza Rice was 8 years old when the Ku Klux Klan bombed a local church in Birmingham, killing four school-aged girls. One of those girls, Denise McNair, was a friend of Condi’s. They used to play dolls together. Over five decades later, through hard work, grace, dignity and intelligence, she rose to become one of the most powerful people in the world, and I watched as all the white foreign ministers of Europe scrambled just to stand next to her. Wow!The day after I finished working for Condoleezza Rice in January 2009, I went to a parade. It was not just any parade. It was the inauguration parade to celebrate the first African-American President of the United States.Now, a few of you might be surprised by this, but my view was that whether you were a Democrat or a Republican, this was a momentous day for civil rights in America. The weather was cold, the sun was shining, and the arc was broad and clear. I wanted my family—my beautiful Athabaskan wife and our daughters—to witness and physically be present at this very important day in American history.Now, of course, we all know that not all momentous occasions in the struggle for civil rights are good ones.Let me transport you to Charleston South Carolina, to the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church—a sanctuary since its founding in 1816. One of America’s most famous places of worship for generations, for over two centuries it has been a beacon against bigotry and hatred.Affectionately known as Mother Emanuel, the church had provided sanctuary to runaway slaves. It helped educate the black community. Its leaders were lashed and hung, and the building was burned, to be rebuilt from those ashes after the Civil War. Booker T. Washington spoke at the church in 1909. It was the site of a famous rally led by Dr. King. In 2015, an evil man, a racist man, shot and killed nine people in the church as they were praying during a Bible study. That was a moment when the angels cried and the arc dipped low. But it didn’t stay there. A few days later, there was a community service in Charleston that I attended at the invitation of my friend, South Carolina U.S. Senator Tim Scott. There were many in the audience that day, and amazing grace was all around us. It was here in Alaska, too. Alaska’s religious leaders, many on the stage with me today, and their congregations wrote beautiful letters full of hopes and prayers from Alaska’s faith community all across our state, which I was able to present to the AME congregation through Senator Scott.That day, the hate didn’t win and the arc didn’t stay fallen. That day, the arc was lifted by grace. That day, when we sang Amazing Grace at the end of the service, we all joined hands, across the auditorium and across the country, to sing as one. The remarkable reaction of the Mother Emanuel AME church—dignity, respect, grace—even prayers for the evil man who killed their fellow parishioners—is an important lesson and example for all of us, particularly as civil discourse in our country has become more coarse and disrespectful. We can and should vigorously debate important political, social and economic issues in our country. But as I have stated repeatedly, insults, such as personal insults in tweets by the President are not appropriate or acceptable, nor were comments that were morally ambiguous about racist groups that were marching in Charlottesville, Virginia. We should speak out against such statements. They certainly don’t help us as a nation advance many of our shared goals, when such goals often require compromise and good faith from all sides of the political spectrum. The gold standard of how to debate and advance important political goals through respect, civility and dignity is, of course, the man we celebrate today—Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. I recently read the eulogy Dr. King gave at the funeral of the four schoolgirls killed by the KKK in the Birmingham church bombing in 1963. If there was ever a time an American leader had the right to lash out at his political enemies, it was in the aftermath of this horrific, murderous act. But he didn’t. He concluded his speech with this: “In spite of this hour of darkness, we must not despair. We must not become bitter, nor must we harbor the desire to retaliate with violence. No, we must not lose faith in our white brothers. Somehow, we must believe that the most misguided among them can learn to respect the dignity and the worth of all humanity.”I want to conclude my speech with an uplifting description of an event that all of us who attended knew right then and there that it was a very important day for civil rights in America: The dedication of the Smithsonian African-American Museum of History and Culture on the mall in Washington, D.C. in September 2016—attended by civil rights leaders, U.S. Presidents, members of Congress and Supreme Court justices, among others. It was spectacular. As a U.S. Senator, I was allowed to bring one guest. I took one of my staffers, Xavier Mason, a young African-American who I have no doubt will be part of Alaska’s next generation of leaders, who is studying at Oxford right now. The exhibits in the museum start in the basement. Way down deep you find stories of men, women and children ripped from their countries into the bondage of slavery. Death. Disease. Destruction. Complete inhumanity. Then you start to rise closer to the surface. You see America’s fight over slavery. You see how slavery had sapped our collective humanity. But you also begin to see the light. You see abolitionists joining free slaves to implore the American people to end the brutality. You see a country torn apart, and you see the bloody battles of the Civil War, but you also see the absolute rightness of the cause. People dying for what’s right. Higher up is the struggle for civil rights. Dr. King marching peacefully on the streets, men and women of all colors joining him. And then higher yet, Congress passing the 1964 Civil Rights Act, and later, President Obama taking the oath.Most of all, you see the beautiful moral arc: with all its ups and downs, right there, all there, in one building.The march towards that arc is not over. We have much work to do back home and in Washington, D.C. to keep it afloat. But we will march towards it together. Thank you.
01.12.2018	01.12.18 Alaskan of the Week: Jeff Cook WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor to recognize Jeff Cook, of Fairbanks, for his remarkable achievements in the fight against cancer. Cook, who was named the nation’s top fundraiser in the American Cancer Society’s 2017 Real Men Wear Pink campaign, was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” Senator Sullivan honoring Jeff Cook on the Senate Floor as Alaskan of the Week (click here to watch) TRIBUTE TO JEFF COOK Mr. President, every week, I try to come down to the floor and talk a little bit about my State and do a little bit of bragging in what we call our “Alaskan of the Week” series. Now, there is a lot to talk about with regard to Alaska. We would love for the people in the Gallery and the people who are watching to come out and visit our great State. It will be the trip of a lifetime. The scenery, of course, is gorgeous, and the mountains are rugged, but it is really the people who make my State so special – rugged, self-sufficient, kind, and very generous people all across an area that is over two and one-half times the size of Texas. I apologize to my Texas colleagues, as they get a little upset when I talk about that, but it is true. Every week, we have been recognizing a group or a person who has worked to make Alaska a stronger place, a stronger community – a State that, I think, is the best State in our great Nation. I call these individuals our Alaskans of the Week. Today, I take all who are watching to Alaska's interior, to a town called Fairbanks, AK, where about 32,000 of my fellow Alaskans live. It is a beautiful, wonderful place. Fairbanks is hot in the summer. My wife and I were married there many years ago. It was over 90 degrees when we got married in August, but it is really cold in the winter. We spent January 1, 2000 – the millennium celebration – in Fairbanks with our kids and our family. It was 50 below zero without the windchill – cold. It is a place I love, where my wife was born and raised, where we lived, where my in-laws still live, and the place Jeff Cook, our Alaskan of the Week, calls home. Jeff has been in Fairbanks his whole life. His parents moved to Fairbanks in 1938. He went to college in Oregon, and his wife Sue was there, but the couple moved back to Alaska, to Fairbanks, and started a family. He is now 74 years young. He and Sue have four children, two of whom have settled in Fairbanks, and they have five grandchildren. He is the patriarch of not only a great family but of many community organizations throughout Fairbanks and, really, Alaska. Throughout the years, Jeff has had a career in real estate, in business. He has sat on numerous boards –community boards – and been in community groups. Let me just give a couple of examples of his community work, of his sitting on the board of the Fairbanks Chamber of Commerce, the University of Alaska Board of Regents, the Rotary Club of Fairbanks, the Greater Fairbanks Community Hospital Foundation board, the board for the State of Alaska Chamber of Commerce, the Rasmuson Foundation board, and the boards for Alaska Airlines and Wells Fargo Bank. This is an individual – a leader – who has been involved in his community for decades. He is a perfect example of the community-minded individual whom we call our Alaskan of the Week. We could be done right here. It is a pretty amazing career –a great example of someone who is dedicated to his State, to his country, to his community. Yet Jeff has done a lot more. He recently used all of his energy, all of his experience, all of his community involvement to embark on what really has become an extraordinary fundraising campaign to raise money for cancer research--so important for our Nation, so important for Alaska. This became a personal issue for Jeff. Let me tell you this story. Last March, he and Sue received, really, a devastating phone call from their youngest daughter Chrissy, who is 34 and lives in Las Vegas with her husband and 2-year-old daughter. She called to tell them the bad news--really, the horrible news that millions of American families hear every year--that she had been diagnosed with breast cancer and that she had a positive match for the BRCA2 gene, which increases one's risk of developing breast cancer or ovarian cancer. Jeff and Sue felt powerless against this disease when they heard this. He said: ``When you're a parent, it doesn't matter how old your children are; you're supposed to slay the dragons and conquer the monsters'' and protect your kids. If that were not devastating enough, weeks later, he and his wife made sure that everyone in the Cook family got tested. Unfortunately, five other members of the family tested positive for this gene. They are all being monitored now. Here is what Jeff said: ``We couldn't conquer the cancer, but we just had to do something.'' He said he had heard about the American Cancer Society's ``Real Men Wear Pink'' campaign--a fundraising program that is held in October. October, as everybody knows, is Breast Cancer Awareness Month. About 3,000 men from across the country participated in the program this year, the ``Real Men Wear Pink'' campaign. So Jeff started. He started with the pretty impressive goal of raising $5,000 for cancer research and an email list of about 70 people, most of whom were in Fairbanks. Within 90 seconds after sending his first email, he had raised $1,000. Pretty good. Then what happened? The community of Fairbanks, of Alaska--really of the whole country--started opening up to his plea. Donations kept coming in. The more donations he received, the more Jeff worked at raising funds. Many of the people he knew were donating, but what happened? Strangers from across Alaska and from across the country started to send money for this very worthy cause of breast cancer research--often with heartfelt stories of their loved ones, of their own struggles with cancer, or of those of their kids. Someone from a small town in New York State sent him $250. As the weeks passed, he began to pay attention to how he was stacking up against others across the country. Jeff is a competitive guy. He is very successful. When he reached No. 10 in the country in terms of fundraising for this very important matter, he told one of his friends there was no way he could beat the No. 1 person ahead of him who had raised $30,000--no way. That was a high number. Now, Fairbanks is not a very big city, and the other people on the list above him were from much bigger cities from across the country and had what he thought were larger connections and larger networks. Yet his friend told him: ``Don't underestimate yourself, Jeff.'' After he read that, he said: ``Okay. I'm going for broke.'' This is what he did. He was all in. He started fundraising everywhere. When it was all said and done, on this campaign, Jeff Cook, from Fairbanks, AK--a town of a little over 30,000 people in Alaska's interior--was the No. 1 fundraiser in America for breast cancer research this year--No. 1. In terms of the American Cancer Society's ``Real Men Wear Pink'' campaign, Jeff Cook raised over $120,000. If my colleagues were down here, I would ask them for a round of applause. That was for the entire country. Think about that. We come down to this floor a lot and debate cancer research, medical research--very important. Here is one individual in America who raised over $120,000 through his own energy and passion and for the love of his daughter. This is a testament to Jeff's perseverance, but it is also about the good people in Fairbanks, throughout Alaska, and really throughout the country. As Jeff said, ``It says so much about our community. There was such an outpouring of love, goodness and generosity. That was the most touching part of [this entire experience].'' What else did Jeff learn? He learned that his daughter Chrissy, who underwent chemotherapy and a double mastectomy, is stronger than he ever imagined. She is recovering well, but she is still in recovery. I am going to humbly ask my colleagues and those who are watching here and those who are watching on TV to put a prayer in for Chrissy and other cancer victims like Senator Hirono, who was just on the floor. Put them on your prayer lists as they are in recovery – all of them. I want to end with a big thanks to everybody in Alaska and across the country who are part of the ``Real Men Wear Pink'' campaign who are literally raising hundreds of thousands of dollars for breast cancer research. I thank Jeff, of course, for not underestimating himself but for another – another –mission well done as a community leader in Fairbanks and throughout Alaska. Congratulations for being our Alaskan of the Week. I yield the floor. ###
01.11.2018	01.11.18 Murkowski, Sullivan Seek Emergency Relief for Communities Affected by Fisheries Disasters Alaska Fisheries Disaster Totaling $150 Direct Losses WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Congress considers a relief package for U.S. communities impacted by hurricanes and wildfires, Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, along with a bipartisan group of senators representing Washington, Oregon, and California, called on their colleagues to also include disaster funding for coastal communities affected by longstanding and ongoing fisheries disasters. The senators urged swift action to provide emergency funding to communities that depend on resilient, sustainable, and healthy fisheries, highlighting how important the industry is to local economies and native communities, writing: “In Pacific coastal states, fisheries support a diverse hub of commerce including shipbuilders, hotels, restaurants, and vessel support services among others. Prolonged diminished returns in fisheries have stifled economic development, threatened the financial stability of fishing families dependent upon the industry’s vitality, and severely endangered Native American subsistence and ceremonial harvests.” The senators committed to working with their colleagues and other committees of jurisdiction toward a solution that brings more immediate relief, saying: “The longer these disasters go unaddressed, the more precarious the situation becomes for communities and families impacted.” The Senators writing the letter included Sens. Patty Murray (D-WA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Kamala Harris (D-CA). Read the letter in full below, or click here for the PDF. Background: In October 2017, Senators Murkowski and Sullivan co-authored a letter raising this issue to their colleagues, urging federal fisheries disaster funding to be included in any emergency supplemental appropriations bill. January 10, 2018 The Honorable Thad Cochran Chairman Committee on Appropriations S-128 United States Capitol Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Patrick Leahy Vice Chairman Committee on Appropriations S-146A United States Capitol Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Cochran and Vice Chairman Leahy, As the Appropriations Committee continues its work on a supplemental disaster request to aid communities in California, Florida, Puerto Rico, Texas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, we write to encourage you to include relief for communities affected by longstanding and ongoing fisheries disasters. All fisheries, including commercial, recreational, charter, and fisheries of importance to American Indians and Alaska Natives are central components in the economy and culture of many coastal communities. In Pacific coastal states, fisheries support a diverse hub of commerce including shipbuilders, hotels, restaurants, and vessel support services among others. Prolonged diminished returns in fisheries have stifled economic development, threatened the financial stability of fishing families dependent upon the industry’s vitality, and severely endangered Native American subsistence and ceremonial harvests. As of January 2018, the U.S. Department of Commerce has declared a total of nine fisheries disasters in Alaska, California, and Washington state, with several other disaster declarations pending official designation. While complete economic impact is difficult to evaluate, NOAA Fisheries has estimated that the total direct losses for all outstanding declared fisheries disasters is equal to approximately $150 Million in Alaska, $140 Million in California, and $117 Million in Washington state. With the knowledge that these estimates may increase with subsequent declarations, we respectfully ask that these figures be used as a point of reference during consideration of any relief appropriations. The Senate should act swiftly to provide emergency funding to these communities whose livelihoods depend on resilient, sustainable, and healthy fisheries. Additionally, we commit to working with you and other committees of jurisdiction toward a solution that brings more immediate relief once a fisheries disaster has been declared. The longer these disasters go unaddressed, the more precarious the situation becomes for communities and families impacted. As the Senate works to develop a robust and adequate disaster package for those affected by other natural disasters across the country, we look forward to working with you to ensure that these longstanding fisheries disasters are also included. We appreciate your consideration of this request. ###
01.09.2018	01.09.18 Sullivan Applauds Order to Expand Mental Health Benefits and Care for Veterans WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of both the Senate Armed Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s Executive Order to expand mental healthcare for transitioning veterans. “As an officer in the Marine Corps Reserve, I’ve personally witnessed the struggles – at times tragic – that some of our servicemen and women undergo as they search for care,” said Senator Sullivan. “It’s our obligation to pursue all of the causes and all of the factors that contribute to the scourge of veteran suicide, and bring it to an end. I am encouraged by President Trump’s announcement and decision to focus efforts on a particularly vulnerable group of servicemembers as they transition from military service to civilian life.” According to the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs and Homeland Security, the three departments will work together and develop a Joint Action Plan to ensure that the 60 percent of new veterans who currently do not qualify for enrollment in healthcare — primarily due to lack of verified service connection related to the medical issue at hand — will receive treatment and access to services for mental healthcare for one year following their separation from service. The Executive Order, titled “Supporting Our Veterans During Their Transition From Uniformed Service to Civilian Life,” will work to expand mental health programs and other resources to new veterans, including: Expanding peer community outreach and group sessions in the VA Whole Health initiative from 18 Whole Health Flagship facilities to all facilities. Whole Health includes wellness and establishing individual health goals. Extending the Department of Defense’s “Be There Peer Support Call and Outreach Center” services to provide peer support for veterans in the year following separation from the uniformed service. Expanding the Department of Defense’s Military OneSource (MOS), which offers resources to active duty members, to include services to separating servicemembers to one year beyond service separation. ###
01.08.2018	01.08.18 Sullivan Situation Report: January 8, 2017 As Washington, D.C. thaws out from a week of Alaska-like temperatures, both the House and Senate are back in the full swing of things – working on a number of policies and priorities of Alaska and national importance. Building upon a year of successes – including tax reform and the historic opening of ANWR, efforts to support national security and our military, and the placement of Alaskans in key government positions – Senator Sullivan says he is extremely optimistic for what 2018 holds (see an op-ed he recently authored) for Alaska. This week, we take a look back at 2017 in a year in photos. Enjoy! 2017: A Year in Photos The Alaska congressional delegation meeting with nominee to serve as the Secretary of Interior, then Representative Ryan Zinke, to discuss a wide range of Alaska priorities including the approval of the King Cove road, opening ANWR and the NPR-A to new development, and the Alaska Native Veterans Land Exchange Act (January 11, 2017). Congressman Young and Senator Sullivan looking out upon a group of Alaskans gathered in Washington, D.C. for the Inauguration of President Donald Trump (January 19, 2017). Senator Sullivan, throughout the month of January and the remainder of 2017, personally met with nominees to serve within the President’s Cabinet. Senator Sullivan met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe for a constructive conversation on deepening the military, economic, trade, and energy relationship between our two countries (February 10, 2017). In February, Senator Sullivan began a weekly tradition of honoring an “Alaskan of the Week” on the Senate Floor. These individuals, which come from nearly every corner of the state, have all made Alaska a better place through their hard work, dedication and commitment to their communities and cultures. Delivering his annual address to the Alaska State Legislature (to watch), Senator Sullivan spoke of past challenges and new optimism (February 24, 2017). In February, Senator Sullivan attended a White House signing of an executive order to begin rolling back the EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule – which would have unilaterally expanded the federal government’s authority across nearly every corner of Alaska (February 28, 2017). The Alaska Congressional Delegation and staff were on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol in March for the eighth-annual Choose Respect rally showing support for Alaskans who have been victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The day also marked the reintroduction of Senator Sullivan’s POWER Act, legislation to help expand access to pro bono lawyers for victims who too often fear or are unfamiliar with the justice system, or can’t afford a lawyer (March 23, 2017). The Alaska Delegation toasting to Alaska on the 150th anniversary of the Alaska Purchase and the Treaty of Cession at a reception hosted by the State Department (March 30, 2017). Senator Sullivan and Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Paul Zukunkft in Seattle, WA touring the nation’s only operational heavy icebreaker – the USCGC Polar Star (April 1, 2017). Senator Sullivan and daughter Laurel enjoying some Easter spring skiing at Alyeska in Girdwood (April 16, 2017). Senators Sullivan and Murkowski speaking to students from Unalaska during their Close Up visit to Washington, D.C. Dozens of school groups, from across the state, participate in similar visits to our nation’s capital each year (May 3, 2017). Senator Sullivan hosted a historic meeting between Secretary Zinke and Alaska Native veterans from across the state to hear their concerns, particularly the need to address the Native allotment some of them missed due to prior military service ( May 30, 2017). Alaskan student Tully Rice, an aspiring Marine, stopped by to visit with Senator Sullivan and give an update on his studies and life in Craig, AK (June 12, 2017). In July, Senator Sullivan and number of his colleagues led a successful charge to shorten the August congressional recess in order to address a wide range of priorities and policies, including reforming our onerous regulatory system and tax code, supporting our military’s mission, fixing the unraveling disaster of Obamacare, and getting our economy growing again (July 11, 2017). Senator Sullivan handing out candy at the Golden Days Grand Parade in Fairbanks (July 24, 2017). In August, Senator Sullivan hosted Admiral Paul Zukunft, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, in Nome, Shishmaref, Cold Bay and King Cove, as well as a visit to the CG Cutter Healy operating in the Bering Sea. The trip highlighted Alaska’s unique role in our nation’s security, as well as the challenges and economic opportunities our rural communities face as they see increased vessel traffic (August 2017). A symbolic gesture, but an important one as Alaskans renew their fight for the construction of a 11-mile-long, single-lane, life-saving road between King Cove and Cold Bay (August 30, 2017). Senator Sullivan – Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, & Coast Guard – listening to stakeholders and experts during a full Committee hearing he convened in Soldotna on the reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (August 23, 2017). In late August, Senator Sullivan hosted a Transportation Summit in Anchorage with U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao where she heard from a wide variety of representatives from the Alaska transportation industry ( August 29, 2017). Senator Sullivan speaking at the 4/25 IBCT Afghanistan deployment ceremony at JBER. Sullivan, who fought to overturn the Army’s dramatic downsizing of the brigade, said “there was nothing, and I mean nothing that was going to keep me away from attending this deployment ceremony of the 4/25 (September 13, 2017).” Senator Sullivan addressing the 2017 Alaska Federation of Natives Convention in Anchorage, where he spoke on a number of important topics, including Alaska Native veterans, the ongoing opioid crisis and the important work being done by Alaskans within the administration (October 23, 2017). Governor Bill Walker, Congressman Don Young, and Senator Dan Sullivan testify before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on responsibly developing the 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (November 2, 2017). During a visit to Valdez, Senator Sullivan met with a variety of organizations and community members – including visits to the Valdez High School and Gilson Middle School (November 21, 2017). In December, Senator Sullivan traveled to Afghanistan to visit deployed members of Alaska-based military, including members of the Air Force and JBER’s 4-25 (December 16, 2017). Senator Sullivan and his team gather during the final hours of debate on H.R. 1, legislation to reform our nation’s tax code and open ANWR’s coastal plain to resource development (December 19, 2017). The Alaska Congressional delegation celebrating the historic passage of legislation to reform our nation’s outdated tax code and open ANWR’s 1002 to resource development at a White House ceremony. Recognizing the importance of this historic moment, the President asked each member of the delegation to speak on what this means for Alaska and the nation (December 21, 2017).
01.05.2018	01.05.18 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: James Charles WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of James Charles, a Tuntutuliak elder who has spent nearly 50 years championing conservation, subsistence and wildlife management in Alaska. Charles was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” Click here to watch Senator Sullivan’s floor remarks. The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO JAMES CHARLES Mr. President, for the past year or so, I have been coming to the floor nearly every week, and I know the Presiding Officer looks at this as possibly his favorite time of the week because he gets to hear a lot of these ``Alaskan of the Week'' speeches. I know the Pages love them. I come to the floor to talk about my State, really brag about my State, and recognize an Alaskan who has made a difference--made a difference in their community, whether it is a small community or a big community in the State, in the country. I have repeatedly stated--I am sure not all my colleagues agree, but maybe some of them do--that Alaskans live in the greatest State in the greatest country in the world. We certainly have the most beautiful landscapes and all the seasons. I was in Fairbanks and Anchorage over the holidays. It was wonderful. Winter is such a great time in the great State of Alaska. For those who love snow, Alaska is the place to be, so we want everyone to come visit. But it is truly the people and strong communities throughout Alaska that make our State so great--such a welcoming place. For those of us who live in Alaska, sustainable community is everything. Living in one of the most magnificent places on Earth, also, certainly has its challenges. We depend on each other. Our traditional knowledge, our ingenuity, our warm-hearted nature, and our determination to overcome these challenges is what makes our State great and is often the theme of our ``Alaskan of the Week'' speeches. Today I wish to transport you to the village of Tuntutuliak--a village of about 400 people, southwest of Bethel, AK, on the 700-mile long, mighty Kuskokwim River--and introduce you to a truly amazing elder who, for 77 years, has worked tirelessly for his community and for our State. This is James Charles, who is our Alaskan of the Week. Over the past decades, when there has been a meeting on the Kuskokwim concerning fish or wildlife or subsistence, James has been there helping to create and shape a fishing and hunting community and regulations, not only for the region but for the entire State of Alaska. James was born in 1940 in a fish camp below Helmick Point on the Kuskokwim River. During that time, Alaska was being devastated by a tuberculosis epidemic. In fact, in the mid-20th century, Alaska Native people experienced the highest incidence of tuberculosis of any population ever. This is one of the many challenges we talk about. Sadly, the epidemic took James's father, his uncle, and both grandparents, leaving his mother and the community to care for her three children. The community--like many still, unfortunately, in Alaska--didn't have hospitals or clinics. They didn't have medicine. The Federal Government basically turned a blind eye to the havoc that this disease was wreaking over all of Alaska, particularly in our small villages. What the community did have was each other. They had food, and they had the bounty of the land. They had elders to help teach the young people in the village the true meaning of subsistence living. James's mother, Emma, hunted and fished to feed the family, and she and James's uncle taught James how to be a conservationist, only taking enough fish and wild game to survive and ensuring enough was left for other villagers--lessons he has passed on to the younger generations of Alaskans, year after year. James met his wife Nancy 50 years ago. She lived in another village. He met her when he was out trapping for food. He said: “I walked 52 miles and found my wife at the end of my trapline. It was my best catch ever.” James's accomplishments are legion. He spent 22 years in the Alaska National Guard, like so many Alaskan Natives who serve at higher rates in the U.S. military than any other ethnic group in the country. He has served on the Federal Subsistence Regional Advisory Council, the Fish and Game Advisory Council, and the Kuskokwim River Salmon Management Working Group. James travels all around our great State, attending different meetings and testifying at the Board of Fish and Game. He has dedicated his life to fish and wildlife conservation so he can set an example for Alaskans today and future generations, including his own family. He has 5 children, 15 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren. He is so committed to keeping the culture and tradition alive that none of his kids or great grandkids are allowed into his house unless they are able to speak Yupik, the traditional language of his people. For all his work to help continue a vital tradition of subsistence and conservation in Alaska, James was awarded the Conservationist of the Year Award by the Fish and Wildlife Service this past summer, which he accepted at this year's Alaska Federation of Natives Convention. For his work, James is our Alaskan of the Week. Thank you, James, for all you have done for the great State of Alaska. # # #
01.04.2018	01.04.18 Senator Sullivan on Department of Interior Draft Proposal for OCS Lease Sales “This administration continues to take important and necessary steps to reverse a series of misguided attempts to shut down responsible resource development across Alaska and the Arctic,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today’s action, combined with efforts to create a more stable regulatory environment, sends a powerful message that the United States is serious about unleashing its energy potential in an expeditious and broad based manner. With the input and support of local communities, this is an important step to begin collectively working towards new, safe and responsible development from Alaska and America’s offshore energy resources.” ###
01.04.2018	01.04.18 Sullivan Statement on Change to Federal Marijuana Enforcement Policy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement on the Justice Department memo on federal marijuana enforcement policy: “Although I did not support the 2014 ballot initiative to legalize marijuana, it strongly passed and I passionately believe in democracy and the principles of states’ rights. For these reasons, I have worked with federal officials and Alaskans to try to address a number of areas where our state and federal marijuana laws are in conflict,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today’s action by the Department of Justice — which contradicts previous statements by the President that this is an issue best left to the states, and adds new confusion and uncertainty for numerous states and communities — could be the impetus necessary for Congress to find a permanent legislative solution for states that have chosen to regulate the production, sale and use of marijuana. As we move forward, I will be examining new and existing legislative proposals and working to ensure the rights of Alaskans and the State of Alaska are protected.” ###
12.22.2017	12.22.17 Senator Sullivan Shares Holiday Message to Alaskans Dear Friend, Holiday greetings Alaska from Washington, D.C. This morning before I leave to spend the holidays back in our great state with my family, I wanted to spend a few minutes updating you on the positive things we’ve been able to accomplish for our state, and our country over, the past year. It’s been a busy week in DC, but a great week for Alaska. For decades, Alaskans have fought for the right and opportunity – against an unwilling federal government – to allow us to develop the 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. We’ve done this so that we can strengthen our communities and build a better life for the next generation of Alaskans. To watch my video message to Alaska, click above. But for decades, we’ve been denied that right. That changed this week when the House and Senate voted to open ANWR for development. That historic vote, along with tax reform that will put more money in the pockets of hard working Alaskans—along with other numerous achievements we’ve had this year, point to a singular message: We have a bright future ahead of us. It’s a future where our communities can be stronger, our families safer, and our full potential as a State realized. There’s no doubt that we have challenges. Too many Alaskans are in the throes of addictions—including the opioid addiction. The crime levels—including domestic violence and sexual assault—are simply too high at very unacceptable levels. These are issues that I’ll continue to focus on in the coming year. But the future is very bright. We live in a state with so much potential. Our abundant natural resources—our minerals, metals, fisheries, timber, oil, gas, alternative energy potential, our world class tourism, our military and its training facilities—all of these make us the envy of the country and in many cases of the world. Now the current Administration knows it, and if my Senate colleagues didn’t fully appreciate our potential before, well I believe they certainly do now. But our greatest resource is all of you, our people. When we work together toward a common purpose—creating a more prosperous, vibrant state, where all people and all cultures are respected, where our children are offered the best education, where we are safe in our homes and in our neighborhoods, where our great entrepreneurial spirit can be set free—there is nothing that can stop us. There is nothing that can stop Alaska. Let me mention a few other accomplishments that your congressional delegation has been working on over the last several months: Because of the tax bill that just passed, middle class Alaskans will soon be getting more money in their pockets. And our main street businesses will also see tax relief and will be given the incentive to reinvest here in Alaska, in America, hire Alaska workers, give pay raises, and help grow out economy and get the Alaska economy out of its recession. In Alaska, we have more veterans per capita than any other state. I’m proud to serve on the Veteran’s Affairs Committee, where we’ve been able to pass 10 major pieces legislation that aim to strengthen veterans’ health care, benefits and overall support. We’re getting good Alaskans in places in the highest levels of the federal government to administer these policies enacted by Congress—people that are doing a great job, that know the issue and will protect Alaska’s interests. Another thing that Alaska is blessed with is our strategic location. Using my seat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, we’ve been able to advocate for significant increases in funding for our military in Alaska. For example, in just the past three years we’ve received and had authorized over $1 billion for military construction in our state—including $200 million that was just appropriated and signed by the President this morning to build a new missile field at Fort Greely. These are all items that are critical for our national security, but they will also result in good-paying jobs for hundreds of Alaskans. Speaking of our military. As many of you know, members of the 4-25 Airborne Brigade Combat Team at JBER and other Alaska-based members of the Air Force have recently deployed to Afghanistan. I know from personal experience how difficult it can be to be deployed – away from family – during the holidays, and how a face from home or a message from home can lift spirits to our soldiers. So last weekend I had the opportunity to visit our troops in Afghanistan. As you can imagine, they are doing a superb job in a very tough environment. They are truly arctic tough warriors and I know we’re all very proud of them and we all thank them from the bottom of our hearts for their service and wish them God Speed. We live in a great state, in the greatest country in the world. We might not agree on everything—but I think that most of us, if not all of us, can agree on that. And I think we can agree that we’re at our best when we all work together. Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah and a very Happy New Year Alaska. It’s the honor of a lifetime to serve all of you in the United States Senate.
12.21.2017	12.21.17 Sullivan Votes for Short-Term Funding Measure, Highlights $200 Million Boost to Alaska-Based Missile Defense Funding and Reauthorization of CHIP WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after voting in support of the continuing resolution, which funds the federal government until January 19, 2018, funds the Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and provides $200 million in military construction for an additional missile field of 20 Ground-Based Interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska. “While I fundamentally disagree with this process for funding our government – stopgap measure to stopgap measure, today’s action will ensure the U.S. government and economy remain open and operational through the New Year,” said Senator Sullivan. “Importantly, this funding extension contains some very important priorities, including the critical reauthorization of the CHIP program – also known as Denali KidCare in Alaska – which has successfully served Alaskan families and children for years, and a significant boost to our national security in the form of a $200 million increase to missile defense spending and construction at Ft. Greely. This provision, which I called for in my bill –the Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act – was included and authorized in the FY2018 NDAA, and will ensure U.S. missile defense stays ahead of the rapidly increasing threat from North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs. ###
12.20.2017	12.20.17 AT LAST: Congress Approves Legislation to Open Alaska’s 1002 Area After 37 Years, Responsible Development Is Closer Than Ever WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statements after the House and Senate passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, securing a major victory for Alaskans and all Americans. In addition to reforming the tax code, the bill opens the non-wilderness 1002 Area in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to responsible energy development. “This is a watershed moment for Alaska and all of America,” Murkowski said. “We have fought to open the 1002 Area for a very long time, and now, our day has finally arrived. I thank all who kept this effort alive over the decades, especially Ted Stevens and Frank Murkowski, and all who supported this bill. Alaskans can now look forward to our best opportunity to refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, thousands of jobs that will pay better wages, and potentially $60 billion in royalties for our state alone. This is a major victory for Alaska that will help us fulfill the promises of our statehood and give us renewed hope for growth and prosperity.” “For decades, Alaskans have fought for the right and opportunity – against an unwilling federal government – to allow Alaska to develop the 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge so that we can strengthen our communities and build a better life for our children,” Sullivan said. “But for decades, we’ve been denied that right. Today that has changed. I want to thank all of the hundreds – if not thousands of Alaskans – who have spent countless hours over the years to get this done. I want to thank Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young for all of their hard work over the years on this issue. I also want to thank the late Senator Ted Stevens and his family, who spent much of his life on this just cause. Twelve years ago, his last attempt to open the 1002 Area of the coastal plain was blocked. Senator Stevens said that it was the ‘saddest day of his life.’ Today, no doubt, he’s looking down on us, with a smile on his face.” “This is a historic moment for Alaskans and I am incredibly proud of the work this delegation has done over the years to open the 1002 Area of ANWR,” Young said. “Congress specifically set aside this land to be used for responsible resource development and it was always intended to unleash America’s potential energy production. Opening this area will create more jobs for Alaskans, generate future revenue for this country to pay down the deficit and keep energy affordable for American families and businesses. I am especially proud to see this measure pass today because I have fought to open the 1002 area for the past 40 years and today marks an important step in this process.” For 37 years, the members of Alaska’s congressional delegation have championed legislation to open a small portion of the 1002 Area, within the non-wilderness portion of ANWR, to responsible energy development. That effort culminated today with congressional passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which President Trump is expected to sign in the days ahead. Murkowski, chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, is the author of the bill’s second title, which establishes an environmentally responsible oil and gas program in the non-wilderness 1002 Area of ANWR. At least two lease sales, featuring the most prospective acreage in the 1002 Area, will be held within the next decade. In 1980, Congress set aside the 1.57-million acre 1002 Area for potential future development, which is supported by a strong majority of Alaskans. Surface development will be limited to 2,000 federal acres—just one ten-thousandth of all of ANWR—and will bring an estimated 10.4 billion barrels of oil to market, strengthening our nation’s energy security long into the future. ###
12.19.2017	12.19.17 Sullivan Returns from Visit to Afghanistan Senator Meets with Deployed Members of JBER’s 4-25, Shares Thanks for Service and Sacrifice WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) returned yesterday to Washington, DC after spending the weekend in Afghanistan meeting with deployed members of the 4th Brigade Combat Team (Airborne), 25th Infantry Division of Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson (JBER) and Alaska-based members of the Air Force. Senator Sullivan meeting members of 4-25 at FOB Gamberi (click here to view photos, click here for b-roll) “It was an honor to meet and see the men and women of the 4-25 during their deployment to Afghanistan,” Senator Dan Sullivan. “These Arctic tough warriors, trained in some of the most challenging and diverse landscapes in the world, continue to prove to the Army and Pentagon leadership why they are a pivotal asset to address emerging security challenges in the Asia-Pacific, the Arctic, and around the world. Across the board, the reports were glowing – the Spartan men and women are doing an incredible job and proving every day that – as Gen. Mark Milley stated – they are ‘one of the most trained and ready units in the entire United States Army.’ “I commend the 4-25 for all they are doing. Being away from family and loved ones is always difficult, but being deployed over the holidays is especially difficult,” Sullivan said. “We owe them a great deal of gratitude and appreciation for conducting a critical mission that protects the citizens of the U.S. by preventing terror from once again establishing a foothold in the region.” Members of 4-25 at FOB Fenty meet with Senator Sullivan (click here to view photos, click here for b-roll) Senator Sullivan, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, traveled overseas to observe and asses the status and implementation of new U.S. strategy for Afghanistan, and to see directly Alaska’s airborne brigade combat team on deployment. Sullivan, who successfully fought to overturn the 2015 decision to drastically reduce Army force structure at JBER by 2,600 troops, met with members of the 4-25 and other military units at numerous sites and locations in Afghanistan, including Bagram Air Base, Kandahar Air Base, Forward Operating Base Fenty and Forward Operating Base Gamberi. Sullivan also conducted meetings with senior military and diplomatic leaders through Afghanistan and at Al Udeid Air Force Base in Qatar to receive updates on continued anti-terrorism efforts, including the fight against the Taliban. While in Afghanistan, Senator Sullivan spoke to an event held Anchorage for Spartan spouses. Senator Sullivan’s wife Julie was a special guest and thanked 4-25 families for their shared sacrifice. ###
12.15.2017	12.15.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division (4-25) WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) took to the Senate floor to honor the servicemen and women of the 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division of Anchorage’s Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson. The 4-25, which recently deployed to Afghanistan in support of Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” Senator Sullivan honoring the 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division (click photo or here to watch) RECOGNIZING THE 4TH BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM, 25TH INFANTRY DIVISION Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, once a week when we are in session, I come to the floor to recognize a person or group of people in my great State of Alaska who make it very special. We call them our Alaskan of the Week. Alaska is beautiful, it is big, and it is special. Right now, much of the State is gearing up for the skiing season. Snow is out, and there is nothing more beautiful and invigorating than taking to the slopes of Alaska. It is also a great time to see the Northern Lights dancing in the sky. So I urge everybody to come out to Alaska. Winter or summer, it will be the trip of a lifetime. Of course, it is much more than snow and beautiful dancing lights; our people are what make us so special—rugged, independent, generous, and giving to their families, their communities, our State, and our country. Alaska is a patriotic State—I would argue, the most patriotic State in our great Nation. For one, we have the most veterans per capita of any State in America. We have the very best military forces, and we have a lot of them. Let me name just a few. We have the Army’s 1st Stryker Brigade, based at Fort Wainwright. Chike Springer, one of my staffers helping me out here, served there in the 1st Stryker Brigade’s Aviation Task Force. We have the Northern Warfare Training Center; the 59th Signal Battalion; the 17th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion; the Air Force’s Third Wing, 11th Air Force; the 176th Wing; the 673rd Air Base Wing; the Air Force reservists of the 477th Fighter Group; the 354th at Eielson; and the 213th Space Warning Squadron at Clear Air Force Station. You get the picture—some of the best military forces. The 49th Missile Defense Battalion, the cornerstone of America’s missile defense, protecting the entire Nation, is right there at Fort Greely. These are the thousands of men and women in the Reserves and on Active Duty who are stationed in our great State. We are proud of them, and we owe them and their families a huge debt of gratitude for their service, especially now that we are approaching the holiday season. Today, I want to particularly recognize the men and women who make up the 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division—the only airborne brigade combat team in the Pacific theater and in the Arctic. As my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee know, they are referred to in Alaska and throughout the Army as the 4–25. This unit, over 3,000 men and women strong, is our Alaskans of the Week. I want to talk a little bit about the 4–25. It has a very strong lineage and heritage. Although it was created relatively recently—in 2004—and was the first new U.S. airborne unit created since the end of World War II, its heritage springs from the 25th Infantry Division, which was first activated in 1941 and played a seminal role in World War II and all of our country’s conflicts since. Just like the 25th Infantry Division, the 4–25 has played a major role in our country’s conflicts since its inception. Members of the 4–25 have deployed to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, and just last September, a couple months ago, they were again deployed to Afghanistan to train and advise Afghan security forces. As part of a larger drawdown of our military and the Army—a misguided drawdown by the previous administration, announced in 2015—the 4–25 was part of 40,000 Active-Duty Army soldiers to be cut, just gotten rid of. This would have been an enormous strategic mistake for the Army and for America’s national security, especially as it related to the 4–25, the only mountain, cold weather, airborne BCT in the entire Arctic and Asia Pacific. They are also a critical reserve force for any contingency on the Korean Peninsula given how close we in Alaska are to Korea. So what happened? Alaskans circled the wagons. Rallies with hundreds, if not thousands, of my fellow Alaskans came out in our great State, urging the Department of Defense and the U.S. Army: Don’t make this mistake. Don’t cut this unit. Keep it intact. Here in Washington, we did our work. I had a heart-to-heart with a number of senior Army and DOD officials with one simple goal in mind: to get them to personally visit this unit, to come see them train, to see how capable they were, and to understand their strategic value to America’s national security. And that happened. Many senior Army officials—the Army Chief of Staff and the Secretary of the Army—went to Alaska, went to JRTC, and watched the 4–25 in action. I remember standing on the second floor of a building in a mock Middle Eastern town watching members of the 4–25 jump into an LZ at JRTC in the middle of the night for a nighttime airfield seizure operation. There is something awe-inspiring about watching 1,000 airborne paratroopers silently fall out of the night sky to seize terrain— something that probably sends chills up the spine of our Nation’s enemies. Fast-forward to today. Of the 40,000 soldiers slated to be cut from the U.S. Army, only one unit was spared—one— and it was the 4–25. Why did this happen? It happened because they made it happen. This great unit saved themselves. When the Army’s top brass went to Alaska, went to Fort Polk and watched them train at JRTC, they saw what a great unit this was and realized they were making a big mistake. When General Milley, Chief of Staff of the Army, made the final decision to reverse the previous decision of the Army and retain the 4–25, he said it was ‘‘one of the most trained and ready units in the entire United States Army.’’ That was the Chief of Staff of the Army. The 4–25 didn’t rest. They are deployed, back in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, while deployed, just a few days ago, on December 11, Alaska lost a son and the 4–25 lost one of its own as part of this mission. It is heartbreaking for the families and for the unit. These brave young men and women are willing to sacrifice and have already sacrificed, and our prayers are with them during these holidays. They are our Alaskans of the Week. I plan on visiting them overseas during the holidays. My wife Julie will also be attending an event this weekend in Anchorage for the families of those who are deployed, showing our support and our respect for the men and women in this unit and their families, because, as many know, when a family is deployed, it is not just the young man and woman in the unit who sacrifice, it is the entire family. To the families, we say thank you, from the bottom of our hearts, for your service and sacrifice. To the men and women who make up the 4–25, we also say thank you for all you are doing for us—for serving us, for keeping us safe, for protecting this country, when Americans are enjoying the holidays. I look forward to seeing you in theater. Please be assured that all Members of this body—Senators, Democrats, Republicans—know your record of service and wish all of you Godspeed this holiday season. Thank you for being our Alaskans of the Week. Army Strong. Arctic Tough. Sparta Lives. ###
12.14.2017	12.14.17 Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduce Legislation to Combat Harassment and Discrimination In Congress, Bring Transparency And Accountability To Sexual Harassment Reporting Process Bipartisan Congressional Harassment Reform Act Would Overhaul Current Reporting Process for Victims of Harassment and Discrimination in Congress, End Required Secrecy, and Require Members of Congress Found Liable for Harassment or Discrimination to Pay Settlements Out of Their Own Pocket Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John Cornyn (R-TX), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Kamala Harris (D-CA), and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV) today introduced new bipartisan legislation that would overhaul the current process that victims of harassment and discrimination in Congress must go through when reporting a claim. The current process for victims of harassment and discrimination in Congress lacks transparency and is difficult to navigate. This legislation, the Congressional Harassment Reform Act, would bring transparency and accountability to the current process by extending protections to interns and fellows, eliminating forced mediation, ending the current required secrecy in the process by allowing victims to speak publicly about their case, requiring Members of Congress found personally liable for harassment to pay settlements out of their own pockets, and improving systems to address harassment and discrimination in Congress. “Sexual harassment and assault can leave lifelong scars on victims—which can be compounded by an arduous system of reporting,” said Senator Sullivan. “All of those in Congress must be respectful towards one another. I’m glad to cosponsor this bill that will mandate a much-needed overhaul in our reporting system. Victims and survivors need to know we’ll do all we can do in Congress to make sure that they are protected and that those who abuse their employees are held accountable.” “Congress should never be above the law or play by their own set of rules,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We should treat every person who works here with respect and dignity, and that means creating a climate where there is accountability, fairness, respect, and access to justice if sexual harassment takes place. There are real costs to sexual harassment in the workplace. We now know that many people quit their jobs because of it, or miss out on promotions or raises, all of which can throw off the entire trajectory in their careers. We must ensure that Congress handles complaints to create an environment where staffers can come forward if something happens to them without having to fear that it will ruin their careers. This bipartisan legislation would bring us much closer to that goal.” “Sexual harassment is wrong. Every person, man or woman, deserves to be treated with dignity and respect in the workplace,” said Senator Cruz. “In recent months, we've seen wave after wave of appalling sexual harassment and assault allegations -- from Hollywood, to newsrooms, to the halls of Congress. And powerful men who have abused their positions have been held to account. Congress is not above the laws, and secret settlements with taxpayer money to cover up harassment should no longer be tolerated. This legislation seeks to empower victims of harassment to report those crimes and to hold the perpetrators accountable." “There cannot be tolerance for any type of sexual harassment or abuse in our society. Congress must lead by example and immediately improve upon how it addresses allegations of sexual harassment and other forms of discrimination to make sure that those who have engaged in misconduct are held accountable and the victims are protected. This bipartisan legislation takes the necessary steps to provide victims with greater protections and choice, holds Members of Congress liable for their wrongdoings, and protects taxpayer dollars. Victims are coming forward and making their voices heard; it’s critical that we take action now to protect and defend them,”said Senator Ernst. “We’re finally experiencing a cultural shift in this country to a place where sexual abuse and harassment will no longer be tolerated, and Congress needs to lead by example. For starters, that means requiring training to prevent harassment and discrimination, ensuring that no one is silenced or retaliated against, and increasing accountability regarding settlements. Every person—regardless of where they work—should feel safe. Our bill will enact important and necessary reforms as part of a much larger movement,” said Senator Feinstein. “I am proud to join with a diverse bipartisan group of colleagues in proposing this comprehensive reform of congressional harassment policies. Quite honestly, I am appalled at the current policies and procedures in place regarding harassment claims in Congress and reports of settlement payouts. Looking back, Congress has been reluctant to apply basic civil rights protections to its own employees, and when it finally did, it included arduous requirements that seemed to protect the victimizer more than the victims. This is a significant piece of legislation which levels the playing field for victims, improves transparency, and holds members of Congress who use their positions of power in abusive ways personally liable to repay the government for the cost of their conduct. It is the strong medicine we’ve long needed to deter harassment in the congressional workplace and ensure that those who perpetrate it are held accountable. Every workplace should be a safe-haven for employees, free from any kind of harassment,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “We urgently need accountability in the halls of Congress,” said Senator Shaheen. “Those who’ve experienced sexual harassment on Capitol Hill face a daunting struggle to reach any semblance of justice and often have egregious restrictions that prevent them from speaking out. And it’s galling that the taxpayer, rather than the perpetrator, is on the hook for paying settlements. Congress must not be resistant to the awareness and accountability that is sweeping the country. This legislation makes long overdue reforms and I’m very encouraged by the bipartisan support. I urge leadership to quickly begin consideration of this important effort.” “Harassment must not be tolerated in any workplace, especially in Congress. This legislation will institute stronger policies and procedures to deter reprehensible behavior in the first place, and when it does occur, ensure just outcomes for victims,” Senator Blumenthal said. “While comprehensive, mandatory training is a straightforward and common-sense step to begin addressing workplace harassment on Capitol Hill, it is not sufficient. Allowing employees access to counseling, mediation and confidential advice will give survivors of harassment the resources and peace of mind they deserve in resolving the misconduct of employers and supervisors.” “We need to make major changes here in Congress and get our house in order. The current process for victims of sexual harassment or discrimination on Capitol Hill is difficult to navigate and lacks transparency. This needs to change and Senator Gillibrand’s bipartisan legislation will reform the current process so it works better for victims of sexual harassment or discrimination and provides more transparency to the public," said Senator Baldwin. “Sexual harassment in the workplace is a pervasive, persistent problem across the country and across industries, and Congress is certainly no exception,” said Senator Booker. “The current system for reporting sexual harassment in Congress is archaic, discourages justice, and focuses on protecting members and offices at the expense of survivors. This bipartisan bill is a much needed step toward creating a reporting system in Congress that puts the rights of survivors first and provides much needed accountability. The survivors of sexual harassment and assault have carried the burden of congressional inaction for far too long. It’s vital that Congress send a clear message to survivors that they are heard and supported, and to those who commit these atrocious acts that there’s no place for their behavior anywhere in our society.” “Over the past few months, our country has experienced a much-needed transformation when it comes to listening to courageous women share their stories about harassment. No one should be forced to work in an environment where they are made to feel uncomfortable or intimidated. Let me be extremely clear: sexual harassment and workplace misconduct has no place in America, and certainly has no place in the United States Congress,” said Senator Gardner. “I’m proud to join Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and my other colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to introduce this bipartisan legislation that reforms the way Congress deals with harassment. This legislation ensures we have an open, transparent process that does not leave the taxpayers on the hook for Members of Congress’ misconduct. I’m proud to introduce this bill today and call on each of my colleagues to support this important proposal.” "We know that the system in Congress for dealing with sexual harassment is broken, and we must continue working to empower all women and do everything we can to prevent sexual harassment, misconduct, and assault from occurring in the first place," Senator Hassan said. "This bipartisan bill is critical to those efforts, and I will keep working across the aisle to move this important measure forward and to help ensure a safe work environment for all." Specifically, the Congressional Harassment Reform Act would do the following: Extends protections to interns and fellows. Requires everyone working on Capitol Hill, including Members, to take the Office of Compliance training. Changes the name of the Office of Compliance (OOC) to the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights. Puts victims in the driver’s seat by allowing them to choose how to resolve their complaint (e.g. counseling and mediation are both no longer mandatory) and protecting their option to discuss their claim publicly. Establishes a Confidential Advisor to consult, on a confidential basis, with any employee who has alleged harassment or discrimination; and assist any employee who has an allegation under Title IV in understanding the procedures, and the significance of the procedures. Gives OOC’s General Counsel the authority to conduct interviews and gather evidence regarding complaints of covered harassment and discrimination filed under this section, including interviews with former employees. Allows individuals to work remotely without penalty throughout proceedings. Improves tracking of complaints and procedures by implementing an online platform. Requires that if a Member of Congress is found to be personally liable for harassment or discrimination, they will be responsible for the cost of any settlement. Requires that if a Member of Congress is found to be personally liable for harassment or discrimination, any settlement must be approved by the Senate or House Ethics Committee. Requires that all settlements will be publicly disclosed unless the victims choose to keep them private. Requires offices to post notices with information about employees’ rights and how to contact the Office of Compliance. Provides for a climate survey to identify the pervasiveness of the problem and what gaps continue to exist in its resolution.
12.12.2017	12.12.17 Sullivan Applauds Signing of NDAA, Bipartisan Agreement Boosting Missile Defense, National Security and Military Readiness WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) applauded the President for signing the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law, legislation that authorizes $634.2 billion for base budget requirements, $65.7 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), and includes a number of provisions important to Alaska. “I thank the President for signing this important legislation into law, which will ensure that our fighting men and women have what they need to protect our nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “In a world with an increasingly complex and diverse array of threats, I am hopeful that this bill helps begin the process of rebuilding a military constrained by sequestered-budgets and Obama administration defense cuts. While there is still much more to do, this bill reverses lost military readiness with $26.2 billion in additional funding above the President’s request. The NDAA also authorizes much needed procurement – such as 90 F-35s and 17 KC-46s – and increases our military’s end-strength by over 20,000 servicemembers spread across all four services, the active-duty, guard, and reserve, and even authorizes 2.4% pay raises for all military members.” The FY 2018 NDAA also includes authorization of $12.3 billion for the Missile Defense Agency – a 57 percent increase over the President’s initial request – and includes $200 million in military construction for a new missile field at Fort Greely, AK, as well as authorized funding needed to procure an additional 20 missile interceptors required to operationalize the field. Additionally, the bill includes funding for advancing key missile defense technologies and for beginning to build a space-based sensor layer. Notably, this bill also authorizes up to 28 additional interceptors for homeland missile defense – the second largest capacity increase ever. “Any strategy on North Korea must include a robust and integrated missile defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “For the past year – in hearings and in legislation – I have stressed that Congress must lead on bolstering our nation’s missile defense. I’m grateful that provisions in the bill that I introduced, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act, were included in this NDAA, including twenty-eight more interceptors, advancing a new missile field at Fort Greely. With the passage of the Defense Authorization today and the President’s budget request earlier this month, we are finally getting serious about advancing America’s missile defense.” Other Key Provisions: Working with many of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan successfully included numerous provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA to advance initiatives that will play an important role in ensuring the long term security of Alaska, the Arctic and the United States. These initiatives include the authorization to build a new heavy-class polar icebreaker, a U.S Navy study on ice-hardening its ships, and provisions aimed at improving and increasing the Alaska Guard’s combat search and rescue capabilities. Alaska Military Construction: Authorizes $368.9 million for military construction in Alaska to continue to support the beddown of two squadrons of F-35As at Eielson AFB and to construct a new 20-GBI missile field at Fort Greely. ###
12.08.2017	12.08.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskans of the Week: Great Alaska Shootout and UAA Women’s Basketball Team WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recognized the Great Alaska Shootout and the 2017 championship winning UAA Women’s Basketball team as part of his “Alaskan of the Week” series. Alaskan of the Week on the U.S. Senate Floor (click image or here to watch). The following statement was submitted to the Congressional Record: Mr. President, every week I’ve been coming to the floor to brag about my state, about the wonders of its natural landscape – a land that everyone should see for themselves. But I’ve also been bragging about the people in my state. And nearly every week, I’ve chosen a person or a group to highlight. I call these people our Alaskan of the Week. It’s one of the best things I do all week because although Alaska is beautiful, it’s the people that make my State so special – kind, generous people, full of rugged determination, full of patriotism, and full of drive. Living in the North, in some of the most difficult terrain and extreme conditions of the world, breeds competition—in the best way possible. It also lights sparks of creativity all across the state. And when creativity meets competition, great things happen. You saw great things happen on the basketball court late last month, when the University of Alaska’s women’s basketball team—our Alaskans of the Week— won the championship at the Great Alaska Shootout in Anchorage, the seminal sports event of the year, that for four decades has corresponded with Thanksgiving weekend. Mr. President, let me spend a few minutes talking about the Great Alaska Shootout. In the late 1970s, a coach from the University of Alaska Anchorage’s basketball team had a vision to put the fledgling UAA basketball program on the map. How would he do that? He would create a pre-season college basketball tournament and he would make sure that participation in any tournament outside of the contiguous 48 states didn’t count against the limits for how many games a team was allowed to play. And so was born the Great Alaska Shootout. So for the last 40 years, thousands of Alaskans, from all over the state – many who had never been to a professional game or even a college game – traveled to Anchorage to watch some of the best college basketball in the country. And in Anchorage, people opened their homes to the teams from the Lower 48 to enjoy a home cooked Thanksgiving dinner. The names and the teams that came to Alaska over the last 40 years are legion. Patrick Ewing, Glenn Robinson, Sam Perkins, Ray Allen, Dwyane Wade and Alaska’s own Trajon Langdon… to name just a few. And all the great college basketball coaches at one time or the other came to our state: Coach K, Jim Valvano, Bobby Knight, Denny Crum, Roy Williams, Tom Izzo, Pat Summitt and so many more. As one reporter put it, “it was an annual Thanksgiving week staple for ESPN and it made Anchorage the center of the college basketball world for one bright, shining week.” And time and again, the Seawolves, both the men’s and the women’s team, both Division 2 programs up against Division 1 schools, showed the world what basketball in Alaska looked like. And it looked strong. The Great Alaska Shootout was a gift to the world, and to all of Alaska. Mr. President, times have changed and so have college basketball tournaments. More choices became available. Other states began to compete with Alaska. And this last Thanksgiving, sadly, was the Shootout’s last tournament. But again, UAA’s basketball teams made us proud. All told, the men’s team won 39 games in 40 Shootouts. And this past Thanksgiving Day, the UAA women – which has become a Division 2 powerhouse under the leadership of coach Ryan McCarthy – claimed the women's championship at the final Shootout, beating the Division One University of Tulsa Golden Hurricanes 59-52. It was their seventh title in tournament history. Everyone involved and everyone—businesses who sponsored the Shootout throughout the years, the many avid fans who haven’t missed a game, and all those who played throughout the decades—are deserving of recognition. But at this year’s final Great Alaska Shootout, the women showed us all the true meaning of grit and determination. Here’s to the women’s basketball team at UAA – our Alaskan of the Week – and here’s to the Great Alaska Shootout. Thanks for the memories. ###
12.08.2017	12.08.17 Sullivan Meets with HHS Secretary Nominee Azar WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after meeting with President Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of the Health and Human Services (HHS), Alex Azar. Senator Sullivan and Alex Azar, nominee to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services. “I had a very positive and productive meeting yesterday with Alex Azar, President Trump’s nominee to be the next Secretary of Health and Human Services,” said Senator Sullivan. “Among our many discussions, we spoke directly of the need to address Alaska’s many health care challenges – many of which he is familiar with from his time as Deputy Secretary of HHS in the Bush administration. Mr. Azar committed to continuing the work of the previous HHS Secretary to develop an Alaska-specific health care pilot program. I look forward to voting for his confirmation in the near future and working collaboratively to improve the delivery of services and care for Alaskans.” ###
12.07.2017	12.07.17 Senator Sullivan Names State Director WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced the appointment of Renée Limoge Reeve to serve as his State Director based in his Anchorage, AK office. “I’m pleased to welcome Renée to the Sullivan team,” said Senator Sullivan. “Her experience and understanding of Alaska will be invaluable as we further our efforts to advance Alaska and America’s interests in the U.S. Senate.” Renée Limoge Reeve comes to Senator Sullivan’s office from the Alaska Support Industry Alliance, where she served as Deputy Director. Renée is a graduate of the University of Vermont and holds a degree in Political Science and English. Renée has worked in numerous capacities in the Alaska State Legislature, as Press Secretary for former Alaska Lt. Governor Craig Campbell, and as a Senior Research Analyst for the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ###
12.07.2017	12.07.17 Congressional Delegation Congratulates Alaskan Joe Balash on Confirmation as Assistant Secretary of the Interior WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today issued the following statements after the U.S. Senate voted 61-38 to confirm Alaskan Joe Balash to be the next U.S. Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management at the Department of the Interior. Click image or here to view Senator Sullivan’s floor statement “Today I’m pleased to see that after weeks of partisan gridlock, Joe Balash was finally confirmed as a U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Land and Minerals,” said Senator Sullivan. “Joe’s work throughout the years as a public servant in Alaska – including as the Commissioner of the state’s Department of Natural Resources—will serve him well in his new role. He understands how to build consensus, how to navigate state and federal interests, and importantly, how to work to develop our resources, and grow our economy while always understanding that our lands sustain us and stringent environmental safeguards are absolutely necessary for all Americans. His position at DOI will be a big gain for Secretary Zinke, the Department of the Interior, the United States and Alaska.” Click image or here to view Senator Murkowski’s floor statement “I congratulate Joe on his confirmation to be Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management and thank Secretary Zinke for selecting an Alaskan for this critical role,” Senator Murkowski said. “He has demonstrated that he is both capable and willing to work with everyone, from hunters to tribes to environmentalists and conservationists, on the stewardship of our public lands. His discipline, determination, and broad knowledge and expertise on energy and resource policy, will enable him to be a strong partner for Secretary Zinke and a strong advocate for Alaskans and the American people.” “Joe Balash’s confirmation is great news for the Department of the Interior and for Alaskans,” said Congressman Young. “He is a true public servant with a proven track record of advocating for responsible resource development. His knowledge and expertise make him exceptionally qualified for this job. In this new role, I am confident that he will continue to use his experience on energy and resource policy to lead necessary reforms and enhance policies at the Department.” The Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Land and Minerals Management is one of six assistant secretaries at the Department and is responsible for overseeing several important agencies, including the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, and the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, chaired by Senator Lisa Murkowski, held a nomination hearing for Joe Balash on September 7, 2017. Balash was reported favorably out of the Committee with near unanimous support on September 19, 2017. Prior to today’s vote, both Senators Murkowski and Sullivan spoke on the Senate floor in favor of Joe Balash’s confirmation. Balash hails from the community of North Pole, AK. He previously served as the Chief of Staff for Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and as both the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Natural Resources. ###
12.06.2017	12.06.17 Sullivan Statement on Expulsion of Russia from 2018 Winter Olympics WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today on the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) decision to expel Russia from the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. “I applaud the International Olympic Committee for taking this decisive action against Russia and their state-sponsored doping program,” said Senator Sullivan. “This unprecedented action sends a powerful message to the international sporting community that this orchestrated attempt to cheat on the world’s stage – implemented at the direction of the Kremlin and Vladimir Putin across more than 30 sports and 1,000 athletes – will not and cannot be tolerated. With the 2018 Winter Games in South Korea approaching, my hope is we can begin to rebuild trust and confidence in the Olympic Games and the use of sport as an international unifier.” Background: Following reports and allegations associated with the Russian doping scandal, Senator Sullivan strongly advocated for the International Olympic Committee to ban Russia’s Olympic team from competing in the Olympic Games. In May 2016, Senator Sullivan wrote IOC President Bach expressing concern over reports that the Russian government – including President Vladimir Putin – endorsed a widespread doping program over several past Olympic Games and a variety of sporting events. Sullivan called on the IOC, pending the results of an investigation, to ban the Russian team from competing in the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. ###
12.05.2017	12.05.17 Sullivan Chairs Hearing on Nominee to Head NOAA Receives commitments on Alaska-based NOAA missions and personnel, seafood trade, and hydrographic surveys Washington, D.C. – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) last week chaired a hearing in the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on the president’s nominee, Barry Lee Myers, to serve as administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). If confirmed, Myers would serve as Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and oversee many critical operations for Alaska, including daily weather forecasts, severe storm warnings, fisheries science and management, and ocean mapping and science. “In my home state of Alaska, we are particularly dependent on NOAA’s services,” Senator Sullivan stated to the Committee. “Alaska is the superpower of seafood, accounting for almost 60% of all domestic landings and more than 60,000 jobs – making the fisheries industry our largest private employer – more than oil and gas. NOAA is the agency responsible for oversight of America’s fisheries, and I will be among those working closely with the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere to ensure a continuing bright future for this very important segment of the U.S. economy. NOAA is also responsible for charting our waters, providing accessible, timely and accurate weather forecasting, and studying and help keep clean our unique and treasured oceans and natural resources. All missions of extreme importance for the country and my state as well.” Senator Sullivan, who took the reins of last week’s nomination hearing at the request of Chairman John Thune (R-SD), immediately took the opportunity to highlight the misguided practice to locate Alaska-based personnel, infrastructure and missions outside of the 49th state. Of the many examples currently in place, Sullivan highlighted two: the NOAA research vessel Fairweather, which by law must be homeported in Ketchikan but actually resides in Oregon; and the Alaska Regional Coordinator of NOAA’s Marine Debris Program who is currently based in Seattle, WA. Sullivan on NOAA assets and personnel: “No other Senator would tolerate such a situation” (click here to watch). “NOAA has entire offices that are directly focused on Alaska because we’re so big and have so many important elements of the NOAA mission. Yet, so much of NOAA staffing and infrastructure for Alaska-based missions are not located in Alaska,” said Sullivan. “…No other Senator would tolerate such a situation where an executive agency focuses exclusively on their state’s weather and NOAA-related issues and aren’t even based in that state. To be the most effective and cost effective to the taxpayer, NOAA staff and assets who work solely on Alaska issues must be in Alaska. The previous administration did little to work with me on this. I would like your commitment to help restore the agency’s presence, as appropriate when working on Alaska issues, to be in Alaska.” After receiving a full commitment to conduct a complete review and assessment on Alaska-based assets and personnel based outside of Alaska, Sullivan next received assurances from the NOAA nominee to work on addressing a growing seafood deficit facing both Alaska and the nation. Senator Sullivan discussing the importance of reducing barriers that place American seafood at a trade disadvantage (click here to watch). “You mentioned in your opening statement the issue of seafood trade. I’ve appreciated Secretary Ross’ emphasis on trying to doing something on the seafood trade deficit. The agencies under NOAA’s purview have a lot to do with it,” Sullivan stated. “Will you work with me and other seafood exporters to reduce barriers that put us at a completive disadvantage with regard to other countries?” Sullivan closed by focusing on the longstanding issue of updating Alaska’s and the nation’s backlog of hydrographic charting and surveys. Sullivan emphasizing the need for leadership to resolve the nation’s growing hydrographic survey backlog (click here to watch). “One other area that impacts Alaska, but it impacts the whole country, is the issue of hydrographic surveying,” Sullivan said. There are parts of my state that still rely on charts and data collected back in the 1800’s when Russia was still in charge of Alaska. There’s a potential to address the backlog of hydrographic surveying in Alaska, but also throughout the entire country, through partnerships with the private sector. But, there’s needed leadership for this to happen. Will you work with the committee to aggressively reduce the charting backlog and increase the use of public private partnerships to achieve this goal in terms of upgrading hydrographic surveying across the country?” Like many of the answer before, Sullivan received a brief, but definitive commitment to work to resolve this outstanding issue. “Yes I will Senator,” said Mr. Myers. ###
12.05.2017	12.05.17 Sullivan Congratulates Congressman Young on Becoming Dean of the House and Tax/ANWR Conferee WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following video congratulating Congressman Don Young (R-AK) on becoming the Dean of House, the most senior member of the U.S. House of Representatives, in addition to being named by Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) to serve on the conference committee responsible for producing final tax and ANWR legislation. Senator Sullivan congratulating Congressman Young (click photo or here to watch) “To my fellow Alaskans, I wanted to highlight what an important day it is today for Congressman Don Young – the Congressman for all Alaska. You know he’s a great partner. Senator Murkowski and I work super closely with him. As a matter of fact, I was on the phone with him this morning already discussing strategy for our state and how to get big things done for our state. But what was announced today was two things – the Speaker of the House announced that Congressman Young is going to be on the Conference Committee for the tax reform bill that we passed in the Senate last week. As many Alaskans, most Alaskans know, that also has a provision to open the coastal plain of ANWR – something we've been trying to do for over 40 years. I know Don Young is going to protect that provision in the Senate and make sure the Conference report has a strong ANWR provision. He was also named, and became today, the Dean of the House – the longest serving member of the House. 45 years representing Alaska and serving our great nation. So to Congressman Young, great job! We know you’re doing such outstanding work for our state and our country. Here’s to more great success.” ###
12.02.2017	12.02.17 Sullivan Praises Passage of Legislation to Unlock Tax Reform and 1002 Development WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) offered his support for the passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, as amended by the Senate, legislation to reform our nation’s outdated tax code and unlock the energy resources in the 1002 Area of the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). “I was proud to cast a vote to reform our nation’s outdated tax system, and to unleash America’s energy potential by opening up the 1002 area of ANWR for energy production,” said Senator Sullivan. “This tax reform bill will go a long way in helping hard-working, middle-class Alaskans, who are suffering due to a recession. It will put more money in the pockets of middle-class Americans, will simplify our tax code, give a boost to our small businesses, and allow our companies to compete across the globe. For the last decade, the U.S. economy has been stagnant – jobs have been lost, wages have been flat, more Americans have fallen into poverty and more Americans have lost faith in the ability to achieve their dreams. This bill, which will grow our economy, is essential for the future of Alaskan and American families, small businesses, and communities all across our country. Going forward, I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in the House to ensure provisions that benefit Alaskan families – particularly unlocking the rich energy resources in the 1002 area of ANWR – remain in the bill and reach the President’s desk.” ###
12.02.2017	12.02.17 Senate Passes Legislation to Open Alaska’s 1002 Area Reconciliation Bill Will Create Jobs, Generate Revenues, Refill TAPS WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statements after the Senate passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which includes Murkowski’s title opening a small portion of the non-wilderness 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) for responsible energy development. “Tonight is a critical milestone in our efforts to secure Alaska’s future,” Murkowski said. “Opening the 1002 Area and tax reform both stand on their own, but combining them into the same bill, and then successfully passing that bill, makes this a great day to be an Alaskan. I thank all of the Senators who spent time learning about our opportunities and needs, and who joined us tonight in voting for Alaska. We are grateful for their support and eager to take the next steps for this pro-jobs, pro-growth, and pro-energy legislation.” “Today’s historic vote is yet another milestone in bringing us that much closer to realizing a decades-long dream of opening the 1002 area of ANWR,” Sullivan said. “Although there is still work to be done, I’m optimistic we will succeed on the merits of our policy and the passion of our people. Allowing development in the coastal plain, an area specifically set aside for exploration and development, is a win for Alaska and a win for the nation. It will create thousands of good paying jobs, restore faith in our economy and drive investments in our communities. It will also help protect the global environment by producing energy at home using the most stringent of environmental standards, and will help strengthen our national security and foreign policy. Going forward, I will continue to work with Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young as a strong team for Alaska to at long last make this a reality for Alaska and the nation.” “I applaud the Senate for passing this much-needed legislation to reform our tax code and unlock more of Alaska’s energy potential,” Young said. “Alaska is home to a vast amount of natural resources, and through the development of ANWR, we will strengthen our economy by creating new jobs and generating new revenue. I am proud of the work that has been done by our Senators to overcome complex parliamentary hurdles and retain this important language in the bill. As we move forward, particularly through the Conference Committee process, I will work with my House colleagues to ensure Alaska’s interests are protected and our energy sector continues to be a global leader. This is crucial for the economic growth of our state and nation, but also for countless families, communities and small businesses.” Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Title II of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was written by Murkowski, establishes an environmentally protective oil and gas development program in the non-wilderness 1002 Area, with two lease sales required over the next ten years. It was reported out of committee on a bipartisan basis on November 15, 2017. Murkowski and Sullivan both voted in support of the reconciliation bill. ###
11.28.2017	11.28.17 Sullivan Outlines Support for Pro-Growth Tax Measure Before Senate “What's uniting Republicans is the desire to let middle class families bring home more pay” WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today expressed his support for the Senate tax overhaul also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. In an interview with CNN’s Wolf Blitzer, Senator Sullivan spoke in favor of the comprehensive, pro-growth tax package, particularly his interest in stimulating new economic growth and empowering American families with more money in their pockets. The measure, which passed the Senate Budget Committee today and is expected to be considered on the Senate floor later this week, is designed to address years of anemic economic growth, encourage new investments across the country, lower taxes on American taxpayers, and increase wages for American workers. Watch Senator Sullivan’s interview with CNN’s Wolf Blitzer (click here to watch). BLITZER: We're following multiple breaking stories this hour, including passage of the Senate Republican tax overhaul bill by the Budget Committee. Setting the stage for a vote by the full Senate. President Trump went to Capitol Hill today to personally pressure Republican holdouts. We're back with Republican Senator Dan Sullivan of Alaska. He's a key member of the Armed Services Committee. He supports the tax overhaul bill. Are you comfortable, though, Senator, with a bill that would add, according to the Congressional Budget Office, $1.4 Trillion to the national debt over the next ten years? SULLIVAN: Well, look, that score by the CBO, Wolf, takes into account – they estimate that our economic growth with that score would be 1.9% over the next ten years. I think that vastly underestimates what we can do in this economy. You know, one of the things that is so important about this tax bill is we've got to get this economy growing again. We've had a lost decade of economic growth. About less than 2% GDP growth. We can get to 3%, 3.5% economic growth. We're going to do that and those deficits won't be such a challenge. We'll have much more of an opportunity for bringing in more revenue. And, look, that brings another point. Everybody is saying who is going to benefit? I think the person who is going to benefit the most is the person who doesn't have a job now, who is going to get one because of the strong growth we're going to see out of this economy. BLITZER: What happens if your upbeat assessment turns out to be incorrect and there isn't the kind of 3%, 4% growth that you anticipate, but it gets back under 2%. Would you support a snapback provision to snap back some of the tax cuts in order to deal with a huge budget deficit? SULLIVAN: Well, look, that was discussed at the lunch today and, you know, the President came to Capitol Hill and it was a very good lunch. It was a good discussion. A lot of back and forth. That topic itself was raised by Senator Corker, Senator Lankford, and it's something that I'm certainly looking at because it raises an important point. I think we're going to get back to levels, we're already starting to see it, traditional levels of growth 3%, 3.5% that we need particularly in terms of the middle class. They haven't seen strong growth in over a decade. The tax bill is going to be a key part of that. That's why a lot of people are excited about it. BLITZER: You're potentially open to that snapback provision? SULLIVAN: I am. BLITZER: Did the decision for Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi to back out of their scheduled White House meeting with the President today help unite Republicans to get this bill through the Budget Committee? SULLIVAN: Look, I was not aware of that decision during the discussion at lunch. I think what's uniting Republicans is the desire to let middle class families bring home more pay. Put more money in the pockets of Americans. To me that's what this tax bill is all about and growing the economy. I think that's what's uniting Republicans across the board. I think you saw good momentum at the lunch today, good discussion you saw coming out of that lunch a lot of member who's had differing views. They're starting to come together. We still have more work to do, but the Budget Committee’s vote today was an important step. ### Press Contact
11.20.2017	11.20.17 Sullivan Statement on Designation of North Korea as a State Sponsor of Terrorism ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today on the Trump administration’s decision to designate North Korea as an official state sponsor of terrorism: “I commend President Trump’s decision to designate North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism. Under the reign of Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s provocative actions have only increased, and today’s designation to further isolate this rogue regime sends a strong message to our allies and adversaries that we take this threat seriously and will use every tool at our disposal to hold this tyrannical despot accountable.” ### Press Contact
11.20.2017	11.20.17 Sullivan Names Deputy Communications Director ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced the addition of Matthew Shuckerow to his Washington, D.C. office, where he will serve as Deputy Communications Director. Shuckerow, who returns to the U.S. Senate after four years as Alaska Congressman Don Young’s Communications Director, will serve as the primary spokesman and principal media contact for Senator Sullivan. “Matt Shuckerow is a familiar face to many in the Alaska media and has proven himself to be a seasoned professional and communicator,” said Senator Sullivan. “Having served our congressional delegation well for years, I’m confident he will continue to make an impactful difference as we grow our outreach and message with Alaskans. I thank Congressman Young for sharing this valuable member of his team and look forward to putting Matt’s experience and knowledge to work for Alaska.” Matt Shuckerow was born in Kodiak, AK, and raised in Anchorage, AK. He is a graduate of A.J. Dimond High School in Anchorage and holds a degree in Journalism from the University of Nevada, Reno. Prior to working for Congressman Don Young, Shuckerow served in various roles for Senator Lisa Murkowski before ascending to the position of Press Secretary. Matt Shuckerow can be reached at matt_shuckerow@sullivan.senate.gov ###
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Sullivan Meets with Secretary of Homeland Security Designee Nielsen WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, released the following statement after meeting with President Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Kirstjen Nielsen. “I had a productive meeting with Kirstjen Nielsen, President Trump’s nominee to head DHS,” said Senator Sullivan. “Kirstjen’s experience and leadership working at DHS gives her the familiarity needed to run such an important agency. During our visit, we discussed the strategic national security importance of adding more icebreakers to a lackluster fleet, and I also stressed the need for DHS to focus on improving and strengthening the H-2B visa process, a program that supports Alaska’s seasonal labor workforce and is vital to the Alaskan seafood industry. I look forward to voting to approve her confirmation and to working with her in the future.” ###
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Sullivan Convenes Hearing to Review U.S. Coast Guard Operations and Readiness, Underscores Need for King Cove Road USCG Commandant: “I can’t foot stomp loud enough the criticality of building out this 11-mile stretch of road.” WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, convened a hearing to review the readiness and operational performance of the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), particularly in light of numerous natural disasters and storms that may have stretched the multi-mission service beyond its limits. Highlighted throughout the hearing were numerous discussions on Alaska-focused priorities and concerns, including the development of icebreakers, the home of future Coast Guard assets, and the ongoing need to build the King Cove road. Senator Sullivan chairs a hearing to discuss Coast Guard readiness and operations (click here to watch) “Today’s hearing was an important step in reviewing the real world needs and operational requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard,” Senator Sullivan said following the hearing “Not only did this serve as an opportunity to further review readiness, revitalization, needs for infrastructure and assets, it also served as a moment to highlight the critical work being done by our men and women of the Coast Guard to protect our coastal communities, waterways and oceans. Importantly, this hearing featured key testimony from both Admiral Zukunft and Etta Kuzakin of King Cove on the need to build the 11-mile, life-saving road between King Cove and Cold Bay – a project we’re working to approve through all means necessary.” Among witnesses testifying were Admiral Paul Zukunft, Commandant of the USCG, who spoke broadly to the various challenges facing Coast Guard operations, assets and missions, and directly addressed his unabashed support for building the 11-mile, one lane, gravel road between the communities of King Cove and Cold Bay. Admiral Zukunft speaking on the need to build the King Cove Road (click here to watch) “I sincerely appreciate your leadership on this very critical issues that is not widely known in the 48 contiguous states,” Admiral Zukunft said in response to questions from Senator Sullivan.“… You and I saw this 11-mile stretch. This is very attainable at a very moderate cost, but you can’t put a dollar sign on a life. To a community, this is not a highly trafficked area to begin with. I cannot foot stomp loud enough the criticality of building out this 11-mile stretch of road and providing the lifeline that this community needs to high level healthcare.” The hearing’s second panel heard directly from King Cove resident Etta Kuzakin, who in 2013 was rescued by the USCG in extreme weather conditions while 34 weeks pregnant. Kuzakin spoke passionately of her admiration for the men and women of the USCG, who she credits with saving her life and the life of her unborn child, and for the need to bring this longstanding injustice to a close – for the sake of the people of King Cove and the men and women of the Coast Guard. Etta Kuzakin, President of the Agdaguxx Tribe and resident of King Cove, tells of her rescue by the USCG (click here to watch) “Today, I am speaking to you not only as President of the Agdaguux Tribe, but as a mother who nearly lost my youngest child and possibly my own life, were it not for the courageous men and women of the Coast Guard who came to my rescue more than four and a half years ago,” Kuzakin stated in her opening remarks. “Our notoriously harsh and unpredictable weather on the Alaska Peninsula means that some Coast Guard medevacs are not only dangerous for patients, but also for the Coast Guard. At least 30 percent of the time, flights are delayed or cancelled because of gale-force winds, snow squalls or dense fog. Yet, time and time again, the Coast Guard has come to our rescue when no one else could. We’re hopeful that in the near future, we’ll have a single-lane gravel road connecting our isolated community to the nearby all-weather Cold Bay Airport, providing a safe and reliable transportation alternative.” Since the 2013 denial of the King Cove road by former Secretary of Interior Sally Jewell, the community has experienced 68 medevacs, including 17 by the Coast Guard. Senator Sullivan and the Alaska congressional delegation have long pushed to resolve this issue both administratively and legislatively through the introduction of the King Cove Land Exchange Act. In August 2017, Senator Sullivan and Admiral Zukunft traveled to King Cove, AK where they met with members of the community, including Mayor Henry Mack, to discuss the need for the life-saving, 11-mile road to connect the community to the all-weather airport loca1ted in Cold Bay. ###
11.16.2017	11.16.17 Senator Sullivan Applauds Passage of NDAA Conference Report Includes authorization for $200 million in military construction for new missile field at Fort Greely, AK WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the Conference Report to H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and conferee, applauded the passage, which continues the 56-year bipartisan tradition of passing this bill. The bill authorizes $634.2 billion for base budget requirements, $65.7 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), and includes a number of provisions important to Alaska. “I applaud today’s bipartisan passage of the annual National Defense Authorization Act, a bill that ensures that our fighting men and women have what they need to protect our nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “In a world with an increasingly complex and diverse array of threats, I am hopeful that this bill helps begin the process of rebuilding a military constrained by sequestered-budgets and Obama administration defense cuts. While there is still much more to do, this bill reverses lost military readiness with $26.2 billion in additional funding above the President’s request. The NDAA also authorizes much needed procurement – such as 90 F-35s and 17 KC-46s – and increases our military’s end-strength by over 20,000 servicemembers spread across all four services, the active-duty, guard, and reserve, and even authorizes 2.4% pay raises for all military members.” The FY 2018 NDAA also includes authorization of $12.3 billion for the Missile Defense Agency – a 25 percent increase over the President’s request – and includes $200 million in military construction for a new missile field at Fort Greely, AK, as well as authorized funding needed to procure an additional 20 missile interceptors required to operationalize the field. Additionally, the bill includes funding for advancing key missile defense technologies and for beginning to build a space-based sensor layer. Notably, this bill also authorizes up to 28 additional interceptors for homeland missile defense – the second largest capacity increase ever. “Any strategy on North Korea must include a robust and integrated missile defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “For the past year – in hearings and in legislation – I have stressed that Congress must lead on bolstering our nation’s missile defense. I’m grateful that provisions in the bill that I introduced, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act, were included in this NDAA, including twenty-eight more interceptors, advancing a new missile field at Fort Greely. With the passage of the Defense Authorization today and the President’s budget request earlier this month, we are finally getting serious about advancing America’s missile defense.” Other Key Provisions: Working with many of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan successfully included numerous provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA to advance initiatives that will play an important role in ensuring the long term security of Alaska, the Arctic and the United States. These initiatives include the authorization to build a new heavy-class polar icebreaker, a U.S Navy study on ice-hardening its ships, and provisions aimed at improving and increasing the Alaska Guard’s combat search and rescue capabilities. Alaska Military Construction: Authorizes $368.9 million for military construction in Alaska to continue to support the beddown of two squadrons of F-35As at Eielson AFB and to construct a new 20-GBI missile field at Fort Greely. ###
11.06.2017	11.06.17 AK Delegation Applauds Major Missile Defense Increase in Trump Administration’s Budget Request WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional delegation today applauded the Trump administration’s FY18 budget amendment for the Department of Defense, which requests $4 billion for missile defeat and defense upgrades to counter increasing threat from North Korea. This action includes $2.1 billion for missile defense, including $200 million in military construction for a new missile field at Fort Greely, AK, and 20 missile interceptors required to operationalize the field. “For the past year, I have been sounding the alarm for more missile defense. Today, I commend the Trump administration for prioritizing this essential capability with a much needed increase of $4 billion,” said Senator Sullivan. “Many of these important investments in the Administration’s request, which I called for in my bill, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act, will help ensure that we outpace the rapidly growing threat from North Korea. Going forward, I will continue to reach across the aisle to ensure that these critical investments are funded, and so that American cities are well protected.” “The administration is to be commended for their rapid response to the heightened threat posed by North Korea and I especially thank Senator Sullivan for his leadership on this issue,” said Senator Murkowski. “As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee I will do all that I can to ensure that the President’s defense request is fully funded. The suggestion that additional missile defense capacity can be built at Fort Greely has been around for some time. But rather than analyze, assess and debate while North Korea builds, this administration is moving forward with determination. Today’s announcement is a vote of confidence for missile defense, for the soldiers and airmen that defend us and for Alaska’s strategic role in protecting our freedoms.” “Alaska has long been, and continues to be, at the forefront of our national security operations. With numerous elements that support the safety of our nation, there is little question the value we place in the assets and missions housed in Alaska,” said Congressman Young. “It’s been nearly 20 years since the passage of the ‘All-American Resolution,’ language I spearheaded in the late 90’s that was critical to bringing the Ballistic Missile Defense System to Fort Greely. With emerging threats across the globe, particularly the reckless and irrational behavior of the North Korean regime, now is the time to make robust investments in our Alaska-based missile defense capabilities. I welcome this request by the Trump Administration, one that builds upon a unified effort in Congress and underscores the importance of systems that serve as a vital deterrent to North Korea and as a frontline defense against weapons of mass destruction.” Click here for President Trump’s request to Congress for the Department of Defense. ###
11.02.2017	11.02.17 Alaska Delegation: Now is the Right Time to Open Alaska’s 1002 Area Limited Development Will Create Jobs, Reduce Deficits, Generate New Wealth, and Strengthen National Security WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, today chaired a hearing focused on the potential for oil and gas development in the non-wilderness portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), known as the “1002 Area” or Coastal Plain, to meet the $1 billion budget reconciliation instruction the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee received last week in H. Con. Res. 71. During the hearing, Sen. Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young, both R-Alaska, provided opening statements for committee members. Murkowski opened the hearing by emphasizing that the 1002 Area is not federal wilderness, and separate from the wilderness in ANWR. In 1980, Congress specifically designated the 1002 Area for consideration for oil and gas exploration. Today, Alaskans are asking to develop just 2,000 federal acres within it – about one ten-thousandth of all of ANWR. Murkowski explained that limited, responsible development would generate new wealth and prosperity for Alaska and the nation, among many other substantial economic benefits. “Opening the 1002 Area to responsible oil and gas development will create thousands of new jobs, and those jobs will pay the types of wages that support families and put our kids through college,” said Murkowski. “It will also generate tens of billions of dollars in revenues over the life of the fields for every level of government.” Murkowski also explained how the environmental footprint of development on Alaska’s North Slope has shrunken dramatically since Prudhoe Bay began operations in the 1970s, and the stringent standards that Alaskans have put in place to protect local wildlife. “The Central Arctic caribou herd, which lives year-round in and around Prudhoe Bay, is now more than seven times larger than when development began,” said Murkowski. “For over 40 years now, Alaskans have repeatedly proven that we can develop safely and responsibly, and development in the 1002 Area will be no different. We will not harm the caribou; or the polar bears, whose dens can be protected; or the snow geese, whose nesting areas can be safeguarded; or any of the other birds and wildlife that visit the Coastal Plain in the summer.” Between the 1970s and today, the surface footprint of Arctic development decreased by about 80 percent. What was once a 65-acre pad now takes up 12 acres or less. Below ground, extended reach drilling from a single pad will grow to an area of 125 square miles by 2020—an increase of more than 4,000 percent from the 1970s. Sullivan, Young, and Alaska Gov. Bill Walker provided opening statements about the economic and national security benefits of opening the 1002 Area to responsible development. “Opening the small section of the 1002 area in ANWR for development will strengthen our national security,” said Sullivan, who has been a Marine for 24 years, a former U.S. Assistant Secretary of State, and sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “When we don’t have to import energy from countries that don’t like us, or better yet, when we can export American energy to our allies like Japan and Korea, or even a country like China, this helps our national security and foreign policy.” In a move that caught the attention of lawmakers and attendees, Young drew a dot on the tip of his nose to illustrate the size of surface impact in comparison to the greater ANWR area. “You see anything different on my nose right now,” Young asked the panel. “I am Alaska. One tenth of one tenth percent is what we’re talking about in disturbance…This little dot on my nose – I weigh 225 lbs. – this little dot is what we’re talking about in surface impact in the 10-02 Area. That’s a potential for approximately – early estimates were 10 billion barrels – and now estimates are probably around 20 billion barrels of oil.” “Using the Energy Information Administration’s projections for the price of oil and USGS’s resource estimate for ANWR, the Alaska Department of Natural Resources (DNR) estimates that oil production from federal lands in the 1002 Area will generate $175 billion dollars in royalty and tax revenues for Alaska over the potential 40-plus year life of the basin,” said Walker. The committee also received testimony from a number of Alaskans who strongly support opening the 1002 Area: Lt. Gov. Byron Mallott, State of Alaska; Richard Glenn, executive vice president for land and natural resources of the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation; Matthew Rexford, tribal administrator of the Native Village of Kaktovik; and Aaron Schutt, president and CEO of Doyon, Ltd. Each highlighted the broad support of Alaskans. “As Congress originally considered in ANCSA and ANILCA, it must be determined whether these economic benefits can be pursued in a safe manner that protects the wildlife of the Alaska North Slope. I believe the State’s longstanding success shows that it definitively can, and thus should be done,” said Mallott. “The reality is that the survival of our region and the development of our communities today depend on continued exploration and production,” said Glenn. “Without this economic driver, our communities will need access to greater government subsidies and programs in order to be sustained.” “As Iñupiat, we stand to be unarguably the most affected by oil and gas activity in the Arctic. Therefore, we have the greatest stake in seeing that any and all development keeps our land and subsistence resources safe,” said Rexford. “We know it can be done, because it’s being done.” “The official environmental impact statement for ANWR development from the U.S. Department of the Interior, now three decades old, showed that ANWR’s total potential oil reserves could be developed while only affecting about 2,000 acres of the surface of the coastal plain,” said Schutt. “The technology available to oil and gas companies today supports that assessment. Development will not physically touch 99.99 percent of the refuge, and it would leave untouched all of the refuge’s current 7.16 million acres of formal wilderness.” Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. An archived video and testimony from today’s hearing are available on the committee’s website. Click here to view Murkowski’s questions for the first panel of witnesses, and here for the second panel. ###
10.31.2017	10.31.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Chris Apassingok WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor this week in recognition of Chris Apassingok, a young whaler from Gambell, Alaska who is helping to keep the Alaska Native whaling tradition alive. Chris was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” Click here to watch Senator Sullivan’s floor remarks. The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO CHRIS APASSINGOK Mr. President, one of the privileges of being in the Senate is actually being able to preside, as the Presiding Officer is doing right now--to sit at the Chair and listen and watch my colleagues talk about issues that matter to them, and a lot of times issues that matter to their States. In this amazing country of ours we have so many great States, great stories, and great traditions. When I am presiding, some relate to Texas, where the current Presiding Officer is from, celebrating our unique traditions, while still appreciating that at our best we share values as Americans together--opportunity, liberty, justice, and fairness. It really is one of the things that makes the Senate a great body and what makes us strong as a nation. One of the things I like to do is to come to the Senate floor and talk about some of the traditions in my State--some of the things that I think make Alaska the greatest State in the Nation. I know some of my colleagues will not fully agree with that, but we all get to brag about our State. When I do that, I like to talk about an individual whom we recognize as the Alaskan of the Week . Often, it is somebody who is doing something in a remote part of Alaska whom not a lot of people know about. It is very important to share that with my colleagues in the Senate and other colleagues watching on TV. Today, I would like to recognize a young Alaskan from Gambell, AK, named Chris Apassingok, a young whaler who is helping to keep the tradition that we have in Alaska--Native whaling--alive and well. He is our Alaskan of the Week . This year, Chris was a keynote speaker at the Elders and Youth Conference, which is a precursor to the Alaska Federation of Natives conference held each year in one of our cities. It is the largest annual gathering in the United States of any Native peoples, and there is nothing like it in all the country. AFN, as we call it in Alaska, is certainly a highlight of my year. My wife and I and our kids always try to get there. Let me spend a few minutes talking about why Chris's speech about whaling was so important and what happened after he landed a huge bowhead whale in Alaska and why that was so inspiring for so many in my great State and, really, around the country. Gambell, AK, is where Chris calls home, a Yupik village of about 700 people on St. Lawrence Island, on the northwest edge of Alaska. It is 1 of 11 Alaska communities that participate in two whaling seasons, recognized and authorized by the International Whaling Commission. These are subsistence communities. What does that mean? They are subsistence communities because whale meat is actually a necessity in feeding these communities. I should point out that we have no road systems at all in Northern Alaska. Most of Alaska has no roads connected from community to community, and certainly not in Gambell. The Presiding Officer and I have had the opportunity to travel around Alaska. He has seen our great State. He knows that many communities are only accessible by air or seasonal barge. Some areas can only be reached at certain times of the year because of the weather. These communities need food. They need whales. The annual bowhead whale migration provides the largest subsistence resource available in these remote areas of our great State. Even so, when a whale is taken, the sharing does not stop with the residents of the community. Each whale produces between 6 and 25 tons of food, on average. This meat is shared with other subsistence communities in our State and with family members and elders throughout the State. That is a hugely important part of Alaskan Native culture. This is another example of the resourcefulness of the Alaskan Native peoples, which has enabled them to survive in the Arctic--with some of the toughest weather and conditions anywhere in the world for millennia--and which has shaped the culture of Alaska and the character of our State today. Back to Chris, he is an extraordinary hunter, even by the standards of Gambell, a community of extraordinary hunters. He could aim and shoot a rifle at the age of 5. By 11, he had trained himself to strike whales, as one writer put it, ``standing steady in the front of the skiff with the gun, riding Bering Sea swells like a snowboarder.'' This past April, Chris and his father set out on a boat in the Bering Sea to do what their ancestors have been doing for thousands of years. After they got a bearded seal, they spotted a spouting bowhead. Chris took the first shot, it was accurate, and it was a huge whale, 57 feet 11 inches. It took 2 hours to tow it to shore and 4 days for the community to carve it up. As always, when a whale is landed, it is time for celebration in the community, and this time was no different, but shortly after this, things unfortunately went sour for Chris and the community. A radical special interest activist, with a large online following, read the story about Chris and the whale and he began to attack Chris and so did many of his followers, from all across the globe--hundreds of people, most of them adults, cyber bullying and attacking a 16-year-old boy from Gambell, AK, who had, at that point, only left his village once in his life. They were shameful, no respect, no civility, and I mean vicious attacks. I will not repeat them here. It is enough to say they were greatly upset. In the community, Chris, his family, and his mother cried all night. Chris was angry that he and his family were being attacked for partaking in this necessary tradition that his community and his ancestors have been doing for thousands of years--thousands of years. However, this young man, despite the hateful messages from adults, from adults who live a world away, despite the names they were calling him, Chris, now 17, cut through the noise, stood strong, and gave a great speech at AFN, that he will continue to hunt and feed his family and his community the way his ancestors have done for millennia. At his speech last week at AFN, he asked: ``Will you stand with me as I continue my hunting [traditions of my family]?'' The crowd applauded, all of whom rose when he asked this: ``Will you stand with me'' as we continue our subsistence activities that we have undertaken for thousands of years? I hope everyone across the country stands with this extraordinary young man--truly brave and courageous--as he continues his tradition and his right to hunt and feed his community. This afternoon, I will be holding a hearing in the Commerce Committee about whaling in Alaska and how necessary it is for subsistence and the survival of these important cultures. I hope all Americans also stand with so many other proud Alaska whalers, protecting their rights to hunt the way their ancestors have hunted. Thank you, Chris--a young man in Alaska, 17 years old--for standing tall for your people, for all of Alaska. I also want to thank his parents Susan and Daniel for raising such a fine hunter. Congratulations, Chris, for being our Alaskan of the Week. ###
10.26.2017	10.26.17 Sullivan Applauds President for Declaring Opioid Public Health Emergency WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) attended the White House today for President Trump’s announcement that his administration will declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency, and afterward issued the following statement: “I want to thank the President for declaring a public health emergency concerning the opioid epidemic,” said Senator Sullivan. “I applaud the flexibility and authority granted to federal agencies to address the epidemic, though we cannot effectively combat the crisis without additional funding. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate and House to provide more resources to the people on the ground, as well as states and local governments who are closer to the people. This crisis effects everyone, either directly or someone they know and love. We need to work together to fight the scourge of addiction. “I would also like to thank Governor Bill Walker, who was with me today at the White House, for declaring the opioid crisis a public health disaster in Alaska in February and extending in March.” Background: In October of 2015, eight Alaska women who struggle with addiction visited with Senator Sullivan in his Washington, DC office, and served as the inspiration for the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis. In 2016, Senator Sullivan hosted the Summit, which featured the former U.S. Surgeon General and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Deputy Secretary. Over the last two years, Congress with the support of Senator Sullivan, has passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), and the 21st Century Cures Act – which included $1 billion over two years for states to combat the opioid crisis. ###
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Sullivan Supports FY18 Budget Resolution, Lays Foundation for Tax Reform, Unlocking Alaska’s Energy Potential WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement tonight after voting in support the FY18 Budget Resolution, which passed on a vote of 51-49. “Today I was pleased to vote for a fiscally responsible budget that will curb out-of-control spending, protect Social Security, strengthen Medicare and bring robust economic growth to America, all without raising taxes on hardworking Alaskans,” Senator Sullivan said. “Today’s effort will begin the process of allowing hardworking Americans to keep more of their pay check.” Included in the bill are instructions to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to find $1 billion in additional revenues through increased resource development, including the 1002 Area of Alaska's North Slope. “This resolution is another key step that we’ve recently accomplished in a decades long fight to allow Alaskans to produce energy in our state – something that Alaskans, democrats, republicans, independents, overwhelmingly support,” said Senator Sullivan. “More American energy production means more good-paying jobs, increased economic growth, and a stronger national security. More American energy production will also help to generate wealth, decrease our federal deficit, while fostering a more sustainable global environment. Because no one in the world produces energy more responsibly than Alaskans and Americans.” ###
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Sullivan, Murkowski Introduce the Allowing Alaska IVORY Act U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski, this week introduced S. 1965, the Allowing Alaska IVORY Act. The legislation would preempt states from banning walrus ivory or whale bone products that have been legally carved by Alaska Natives under the Marine Mammal Protection Act. Additionally, the bill preempts states from issuing bans on mammoth ivory products. At last year’s Alaska Federation of Natives Convention, Senator Sullivan held a Senate Environment and Public Works field hearing to examine state laws across the country that prohibit ivory sales and harm Alaska Native artisans. Since that hearing, Senator Sullivan has been working with Alaska Native leaders and those negatively impacted by the bans to craft legislation that addresses their concerns. “Alaska Native and rural economies across our state are being negatively impacted by overly broad bans on not just elephant ivory but walrus and mammoth ivory,” said Senator Sullivan. “These products allow not just valuable artistic and cultural expressions, but vital income for many rural Alaskans. Further, the Fish and Wildlife Service and members of the conservation community have recognized that these broad state bans have little benefit to combatting the poaching problem, while creating confusion on the part of buyers of Alaskan ivory. Our bill will cut the confusion, and carry out the true intent of our existing laws to allow Alaskan Natives and Alaskans to responsibly use their resources to access economic opportunity while maintaining centuries old cultural practices.” “A number of states have enacted legislation claimed to be aimed at combating the illicit elephant ivory trade, which is something we all want to fight,” said Senator Murkowski. “However, the legislation being passed by many of these states would prevent Americans from purchasing and possessing traditional Alaska Native handicrafts derived from marine mammal and locally found fossilized Mammoth ivory, thus destroying a legal and culturally rich economic source for many Alaska Natives. Sadly, state ivory bans were enacted without any attempt at consultation with indigenous groups who create this type of cultural art or lawmakers from states where it is part of our history. The Constitution assigns Congress the power to legislate on matters involving our first peoples. We join together today to protect important sources of income for Alaska’s indigenous people, their culture, and an important part of our state’s history by preempting this vastly overreaching state legislation.” In addition to introducing the IVORY Act this week, the Alaska Congressional Delegation wrote the National Governors Association and National Conference of State Legislatures to highlight the “potentially devastating and unintended consequences of broadly crafted state ivory bans that are currently in place or under consideration in nearly half of the United States.” CLICK HERE to read the letter.
10.19.2017	10.19.17 ICYMI: Senators Pledge Support For Turning Senate On Full Time Call for Senate changes to overcome partisan obstruction WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) was joined by David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and James Lankford (R-OK) in sending a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell pledging their full support to turn the Senate on full time, 24/7, for the remainder of the year to combat partisan obstruction and get results for the American people. “The 115th Congress is being disrupted by sustained, partisan obstruction. We believe our conference must be willing to change how the Senate operates both by tradition and by rule,” said the senators in the letter. “We appreciate your acknowledging our concerns and applaud your plan to work nights and weekends when necessary to overcome this gridlock. You have our full support to turn the Senate on full time, 24/7, to advance the president’s agenda, including a meaningful health care solution, bold changes to our tax code, and funding the government by year’s end.” “You have our pledge to be available for voting day and night and we offer our time to preside over the Senate when necessary to keep us on track,” concluded the senators. View the full text of the letter below. Dear Leader McConnell: The 115th Congress is being disrupted by sustained, partisan obstruction. We believe our conference must be willing to change how the Senate operates both by tradition and by rule. We appreciate your acknowledging our concerns and applaud your plan to work nights and weekends when necessary to overcome this gridlock. You have our full support to turn the Senate on full time, 24/7, to advance the president’s agenda, including a meaningful health care solution, bold changes to our tax code, and funding the government by year’s end. As you know, one glaring example of this unprecedented obstruction is the minority party’s perversion of Senate rules to undercut the confirmation process of the administration’s nominees and judicial appointments. When new presidents are elected, they have always been given an opportunity to put their team in place in short order. Historically, this is not just a common courtesy, it is an expectation of Americans to have a seamless transition of power resulting in a functioning federal government. It is abundantly clear that the tactics employed by the minority are designed to imperil the new administration and its agenda. Overcoming this obstruction will require a real commitment on our part. An aggressive work calendar, as you have proposed, which should include nights and weekends, will enable administration and judicial nominees to be confirmed more quickly. You have our pledge to be available for voting day and night and we offer our time to preside over the Senate when necessary to keep us on track. Given the unprecedented obstruction by our colleagues across the aisle, we hope you will also take a renewed look at the rules governing executive branch nominations. Our conference should always remember that we are fighting for hardworking Americans. In their daily lives, when there is work to be done – whether on assembly lines, in the fields of family farms, fishing in our bountiful waters, or standing in harm’s way – everyday Americans do what it takes to get the job done. We owe them the same unrelenting effort in the job they gave us to do. ###
10.16.2017	10.16.17 AK Delegation Congratulates Tara Sweeney on Nomination for Key Role in Administration Alaskan Chosen to be Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young, all R-Alaska, today released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his intent to nominate Tara Sweeney to be Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs within the U.S. Department of the Interior. “I extend my congratulations and full support to Tara on her nomination to serve as Assistant Secretary,” said Murkowski. “Tara has a very strong record of professionalism and accomplishment in Alaska, across the country, and internationally, especially with the indigenous people of the circumpolar north. She has significant experience on Arctic issues and chaired the Arctic Economic Council. She is an expert on energy, infrastructure, broadband, economic development, Native self-determination, and a wide range of policy issues that will come before her. Secretary Zinke could not have chosen a better leader to help him fulfill the federal government’s trust responsibility, and I know Tara has the heart and drive to excel in this position.” “This is a historic appointment for Alaskans and for the country,” said Sullivan. “I’ve worked with Tara Sweeney for years and I have witnessed first-hand her integrity, her strong leadership skills and her devotion to public service. Tara has a deep love for our state and people, and is relentless in her commitment to securing a better future for Alaska and the nation. With her long history of advocating for Alaska Native cultural values, rights, and economic opportunity, I can’t think of anyone better to have as our nation’s next Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.” “This is an absolutely outstanding choice,” said Young. “Tara’s knowledge, experience and leadership will go a long way in straightening out the BIA, allowing it to run more efficiently for the good of all First Americans. She has extensive experience not only in business, but also within Alaska Native groups and organizations. Tara knows first-hand the fight for Native empowerment and self-determination because she’s been on the front lines for years. There’s long been a problem with Native issues not receiving the priority they deserve but with Tara Sweeney at the helm, I have no doubt the Department of Interior will be paying close attention and the voices of our Native communities will be heard. Tara follows in great Alaskan footsteps, those of my dear friend Morris Thompson, and will do a fantastic job working on behalf of American Indians and Alaska Natives across the country.” Tara Sweeney is Iñupiaq and a lifelong Alaskan from Ukpia?vik (Barrow). She currently serves as the executive vice president of external affairs for the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation (ASRC), the largest Alaska-owned and operated business. Tara has served on the Alaska Federation of Natives Board since 2007, previously serving as board co-chairman. She earned her bachelor’s degree in science from Cornell University. The Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs is one of five assistant secretaries at the Department of the Interior, reporting to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary. The Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs supports the Secretary of the Interior in fulfilling the United States’ trust responsibility to the Federally recognized American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and villages and individual Indian trust beneficiaries, as well as in upholding the Federal-Tribal government-to-government relationship. ###
10.16.2017	10.16.17 Alaska Delegation Applauds EPA’s Selection of Chris Hladick as Region 10 Administrator WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young today released the following statement after Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt appointed Alaskan Chris Hladick to serve as regional administrator for Region 10. "‎Chris is exactly what Alaska needs, an experienced Administrator that will implement the law instead of furthering agendas,” said Senator Murkowski. “Chris has years of experience as the Commissioner of the Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic Development and as a city administrator in rural Alaska. He knows the issues our communities face when dealing with the EPA, from fishermen struggling with overburdensome regulations to the need to ensure that Alaskans can reasonably comply with the agency's environmental rules. His knowledge will be an asset as he works to create collaborative relationships between the Region X office and Alaska.” "The Congressional delegation has been relentlessly pushing to have an Alaskan serve as the Administrator for EPA's Region 10 Office,” said Senator Sullivan. “I’m pleased that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt worked closely with our offices to find a well-qualified candidate for this position. Chris Hladick has a long history of working for Alaska. He understands how state and federal agencies intersect, and will be able to navigate the EPA’s rules and regulations in order to serve Alaska and the other region-10 states. He also has the heart of a public servant informed by years of experiences serving in different places across Alaska. He knows the importance and impact EPA programs can positively make to the lives of Alaskans. I look forward to working with him and the agency to help grow our economy, provide good paying jobs for Alaskans, and to keep necessary safeguards in place to keep our environment pristine.” “Extortion has long been the name of the game for the EPA – sue and settle type tactics rather than helping communities or individuals actually address their challenges. Chris Hladick knows first-hand the overbearing nature of the previous administration’s EPA; helping lead a challenge against them while serving as City Manager of Unalaska,” said Congressman Don Young. “Having lived in and managed river and coastal communities across rural Alaska for many years, Chris understands the many challenges our residents face when dealing with government agencies, particularly the EPA. I’m optimistic Chris can begin rebuilding a level of trust and confidence in the EPA that was steadily eroded over the previous eight years.” For the last two years, Mr. Hladick has served as commissioner of Commerce Community and Economic Development for the State of Alaska where he has been responsible for six divisions and seven corporate agencies supervising about 500 employees. He previously worked as city manager for Unalaska, Alaska where he was responsible for administering union contracts and oversaw the operating budgets of the city’s police, fire and emergency response, public works and utilities departments. He also served as city manager of Dillingham and Galena, Alaska. ###
10.13.2017	10.13.17 Sullivan Statement on President Trump’s Decision to Not Certify the Iran Deal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to not certify the Iran nuclear deal: “I applaud the President’s actions today in which he demonstrated the need to address the Obama administration’s deeply flawed Iran nuclear deal,” said Senator Sullivan. “In the coming weeks, I am hopeful that robust Congressional debate will demonstrate that the United States is now serious in addressing Iran’s destabilizing behavior and hegemonic agenda in the Middle East with a comprehensive U.S. strategy to counter Iran – a country that remains the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism.” ###
10.06.2017	10.06.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Pastor Patterson WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor yesterday in recognition of Pastor Alonzo B. Patterson. Pastor Patterson has been the pastor of Anchorage’s Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church for the past 47 years and before that, founded the Corinthian Baptist Church in Fairbanks. In November, Pastor Patterson will be retiring. He has touched thousands of lives and has helped make a more just country, state and community for us all. Pastor Patterson was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO PASTOR ALONZO B. PATTERSON Mr. President, nearly every week I have been coming down to the Senate floor to recognize someone in my State who has made a difference for Alaska and really has made a difference for all Americans. It is my favorite part of the week to actually come down and talk about Alaska to my colleagues in the Senate, to the folks in the Gallery, to the press, and to the American people watching. It is what I refer to as our time to talk about the Alaskan of the Week. Many watching and on the floor and those who have visited our great State know that Alaskans think it is the most beautiful place in the world. There are natural wonders everywhere. We had a beautiful summer. We have resilient, warm-hearted, fiercely independent but accepting people. We have challenges in Alaska just like the rest of the country, but at the heart of our State are kind, generous people full of different cultures and backgrounds that we celebrate. Most people don't know this about Anchorage, AK: My hometown is probably the most culturally and ethnically diverse city in the country. We have places of worship all over the city and the State that reflect that great diversity of Alaska and America. One of the stalwarts of our faith community for the past 47 years has been Pastor Alonzo Patterson of the Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church, and he is our Alaskan of the week. Every Sunday he fills his church with spirit, joy, and gospel music punctuated by ``amens'' that float through the church, down the street, and work their way into our community and into our hearts. That is what he has been doing for 47 years. For decades, those sermons have inspired countless Alaskans to help feed the hungry, provide homes for those without, and strive to create a more just country, State, and society, and a more just community. Let me tell you a little bit about Pastor Patterson. He was born in Wilson, LA, and raised in New Orleans. Like a lot of Alaskans, thousands of Alaskans, he joined the military and made his way up to Fairbanks, AK, in the 1960s, where he founded the Corinthian Baptist Church, and he ministered to the congregation there. Then, in 1970, he was called to Shiloh, one of the few African-American churches in Anchorage. He designed and rebuilt Shiloh at its current location, and under his leadership, Shiloh's membership, its facilities, and its energy took off. He has conducted thousands of marriages and baptisms. He has given thousands of eulogies, celebrated graduations and anniversaries, counseled countless couples, people who are grieving, people who are rejoicing, people who are suffering, and he has helped turn that into action--not just for the African-American community but for all people and all races in our community and in our State. Pastor Patterson told a reporter: “The church was and always has been a sanctuary in the Black community. It is the meeting place, the community center, the focus for support and help, the place you come to be important, the psychologist for your particular problem, the time to shout out your frustrations and the only place to be significant.” He continued: “You could be a Deacon or something in the church where in the rest of the community you were just another Black person. The church was for us a panacea for many of the social ills that existed then and still have relevance.” That is what he talked about. That is his heart and soul, how he saw his church and congregation. Thanks to Pastor Patterson and Shiloh, the city is a more inclusive place for all. He has helped heal those social ills for thousands of our fellow Alaskans. One of his friends, Celeste Hodge Growden, a member of the church, said: He and the church have led the way for a lot of things that have been accomplished here [in Anchorage]. Pastor Patterson always says, ``leaders lead.'' That is the way he has lived his life. He is not in the background. During election time, Pastor Patterson organizes a huge ``get out the vote'' campaign. He was instrumental in getting a Martin Luther King memorial in Anchorage--a 10-year-long endeavor. She also talked about the groups he chaired, founded, and led beyond his congregation, including Bridge Builders of Anchorage, the March of Dimes Foundation, the Martin Luther King Jr. Foundation of Alaska, and the Interdenominational Ministerial Alliance of Anchorage. You know, with leaders like this, the list goes on and on. In addition to Corinthian Baptist Church in Fairbanks and Shiloh in Anchorage, Pastor Patterson also planted Eagle River Missionary Baptist Church and Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church of Palmer. I have been uplifted to the core when my wife Julie and I have gone to Shiloh and listened to Pastor Patterson preach and listened to the beautiful--and I mean beautiful--Shiloh choir sing. It is a spiritual and energizing experience like no other. I love attending services at Shiloh. On November 5, 2017, Pastor Patterson's 80th birthday, he will be giving his last sermon as pastor of Shiloh, and I certainly plan on being there. He is stepping down for Pastor Undra Parker, who will be the new and dynamic leader of Shiloh--another great Alaskan, another veteran--and I know he is going to do a great job. But of course it is a bittersweet time for Shiloh's parishioners because of the foundation Pastor Patterson built. The church, the singing, and the amens will continue on Earth and the church in Anchorage, AK, as it is in Heaven. God bless Pastor Patterson, his wife of 61 years, First Lady Shirley Patterson, and the congregation of Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church for all they have done and continue to do for our community. Congratulations to Pastor Patterson for being our Alaskan of the Week. ###
09.29.2017	09.29.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Rozann Kimpton WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor yesterday in recognition of Rozann Kimpton, of Wasilla, a coordinator with the Volunteers of America Grandfamilies, and the 2017 recipient of the Alaska Angels in Adoption Award. Kimpton was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO ROZANN KIMPTON Mr. President, every week, I have been coming to the floor to talk about my State and what I think makes it the greatest State in the country and in the world. We like to celebrate and recognize somebody in Alaska who is making a difference for their community, for the State, and for the country, and we like to call these extraordinary Alaskan individuals our Alaskan of the Week. Like many of us here in the Senate, I spent a lot of time recently in August traveling throughout my home State, and wherever I went, I met strong, generous, versatile Alaskans, many of whom survive in some of the harshest conditions on the planet but still have time for their communities and their families and their neighbors. But, like in many places around the country, I also saw the scourge of addiction that is tearing apart communities and tearing apart families. We have all heard how addiction is often passed down through generations. There are many in Alaska and many throughout the country who are determined to break this intergenerational cycle of addiction and many who are succeeding. We don't always hear about them, but there are many. So this afternoon I wish to introduce my colleagues to 81-year-old Rozann Kimpton, our Alaskan of the Week, who is doing that and a lot more. Rozann and her husband moved to Alaska from Washington State in 1958, and they immediately settled in. They ran businesses together, including a small retail store, and then they got into construction and contracting. They raised two children. They were a team. About 10 years ago, they moved to a large plot of land in Wasilla, AK--over 50 acres--to spend time in retirement, and they made plans: gardening, traveling around the world. But it didn't take long for Rozann to recognize that something was wrong--very wrong--in her family, particularly with what was happening to two of her great-grandchildren, Luke and Amanda. They were living in a situation that was harmful to them and they needed help. At this point, Rozann's husband was also suffering from his own illness--cancer--but the two of them took Luke and Amanda in and adopted them. “It was the only way to make sure they were safe,'' Rozann said. “And when a kid needs to be taken care of, and when a mommy and daddy can't, you do it,” she said. “I couldn't live with myself knowing that they were in danger and I did nothing.” This is Rozann talking about her two great-grandkids. That was 10 years ago. Rozann, now a widow, lives with Amanda and Luke on that big plot of land in Wasilla. Amanda is a senior in high school, and Luke is an eighth grader. They are great kids. As a matter of fact, I just had the opportunity to visit with them in my office yesterday. Amanda loves geometry. She plays a violin with the Wasilla Youth Orchestra and drums and dances with the Intertribal Drum Group in Anchorage. Luke's big dream is to join the Navy, which I think is great. The three of them volunteer in their community, helping foster kids. Amanda makes blankets for the foster kids. Every Sunday, they drive over 100 miles to attend Emanuel Presbyterian Church in Anchorage, which is like a second home to all of them. In addition to all of this, Rozann is the area volunteer coordinator for Volunteers of America Grandfamilies, a grandparents support group. Once a month, she has a picnic for her fellow grandparents and other parents who have adopted kids. The kids play games, eat hamburgers and hot dogs, and adults sit around the campfire, share stories, and encourage one another in all the work they are doing. She is in constant contact with about 25 families, and whenever she spots someone she thinks might need help with their kids, their grandkids, or their great-grandkids, she gives them her card. “I am not a shy person,” she said. “I will talk to anyone who looks like they are struggling, and I am particularly good at spotting grandparents who are raising kids”--grandparents who are raising kids throughout our great Nation. As the opioid crisis is hitting Alaska, just like it is hitting so many other States, she is seeing more and more grandparents stepping in. “It is a plague,'' she said, “but the most important thing is to help the children as early as possible, and to do what we can to make sure they don't carry on that plague.'' Rozann Kimpton is here right now in Washington, DC. As I mentioned, I had a great meeting with her yesterday. She is here to attend a banquet where her efforts are being recognized. She is the 2017 recipient of the Alaska Angels in Adoption Award and was recognized by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption last night. Rozann, thank you for your warmth and for all your hard work for Alaska. Congratulations on your award, and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. # # #
09.27.2017	09.27.17 Sullivan Presses Dunford on DoD Freedom of Navigation Plan WASHINGTON, DC – General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, yesterday confirmed to U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, that the Trump Administration will more regularly and routinely conduct Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPs) and has delegated the tactical authority back to military leaders. “Can you elaborate a bit on the department's FONOPs policy, and if this differs from the previous administration?” asked Senator Sullivan. “For example, it was reported that Admiral Harris essentially had to get individual FONOPs approved by the [National Security Council] one at a time under the Obama administration. What's the strategy right now under the Trump administration?” General Dunford noted that Secretary of Defense James Mattis had directed a full FONOPs strategy for a “long period of time.” “Admiral Harris developed a long-term plan for Freedom of Navigation operations,” General Dunford added. “And that's what we're implementing right now…a strategic approach to Freedom of Navigation operations that does in fact support our overall strategy in the Pacific, as well as the specific mission, which is to ensure that we fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows. And we continue to validate those claims where we see international airspace for that matter, or the maritime domain.” Senator Sullivan made the following statement after the hearing: “I am pleased that the Department, in conjunction with efforts from Congress and the administration, has established a strategic plan that eliminates unnecessary micromanagement from the National Security Council and also protects Freedom of Navigation throughout the world, especially in the South China Sea where $3.37 trillion worth of trade transits annually.” Senator Sullivan has been a consistent leader on FONOPs during his Senate tenure, including sponsoring an amendment in the FY 2018 Senate-passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which declares official U.S. policy to “fly, sail and operate throughout the oceans, seas, and airspace of the world wherever international law allows,” preferably “with regional partner countries and allies.” # # #
09.26.2017	09.26.17 General Dunford: Missile Defense Increase “Warranted” WASHINGTON, DC – In an exchange today with U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) during a hearing of the Senate Armed Service Committee, General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, voiced his support for the increase in homeland missile defense spearheaded by Senator Sullivan in the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), including the addition of up to 20 new ground-based interceptors to Fort Greely, Alaska. “Over the last seven or eight weeks, we did a very detailed look at increasing ballistic missile defense capability for the North Korean threat…and we do think an increase is warranted,” said General Dunford. General Dunford also said the Department of Defense supports the missile defense provisions in the NDAA, including the increase of 20 additional interceptors. Senator Sullivan pressed General Dunford on the need for further advancements in U.S. missile defense beyond the FY 2018 NDAA authorization. “The administration views a much more robust missile defense as a key part of our strategy with regard to rogue nations that are trying to acquire intercontinental ballistic nuclear missiles,” said Senator Sullivan. “You mentioned the NDAA does a lot, but I think there's more that we should be doing. Does the administration have plans to, at least from a supplemental perspective, beef up our missile defense?” “What you have outlined in the NDAA, combined with the supplemental that the administration has put together, will meet the immediate needs, but we need a long-term strategic approach to missile defense,” General Dunford replied. “I know you’ve received some of the classified briefings on the adaptations of the threat, which means our ballistic missile defense capabilities also need to adapt.” During the hearing, Senator Sullivan also asked about a potential Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) for a pre-emptive ground war. “If one of the [military] options was a pre-emptive ground war on the Korean Peninsula…my view is that it would require an AUMF from the Congress. Would you agree with that?” asked Senator Sullivan. General Dunford responded, “In the scenario you are describing, I would want to have the full-throated support of the American people in the form of Congress…If we’re going to conduct a major war, then having the full support of the American people…is something we need to have.” Earlier this year, Senator Sullivan introduced S.1196, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act. Senator Sullivan’s missile defense amendment to the NDAA – like the AAMD Act – includes an increase of up to 28 ground-based interceptors (GBIs). This is the second largest GBI capacity increase ever, and up to 20 of these GBIs are slated to go to Fort Greely, Alaska. The amendment also includes language to help jump-start silo construction at Fort Greely and calls for a report analyzing the potential for up to 104 GBIs distributed across the U.S. In addition, as a part of $630 million in added funding for the Missile Defense Agency, Senator Sullivan also worked to secure an additional $27.5 million to begin the development of new space-based missile defense sensor technologies. # # #
09.26.2017	09.26.17 Sullivan Statement on Graham-Cassidy Proposal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement about the Graham-Cassidy Senate healthcare reform proposal. “I’m disappointed that we haven’t been able to replace the Affordable Care Act with a system that works for Alaska. The Graham-Cassidy bill would have sent federal healthcare dollars and decision-making back to the states—the laboratories of democracy—to decide how best to meet the needs of their constituents. As Alaskans know, our healthcare challenges are different from other states, and the top-down mandates, which are the foundation of the Affordable Care Act, simply haven’t worked for thousands of Alaskans. “The Graham-Cassidy bill, which I’m convinced would have brought more funds and more flexibility to Alaska, was compelling. Unfortunately, the process was rushed and we ran out of time to fully vet the data. I appreciate the collaborative work that the State of Alaska’s healthcare team put into this, and all of the hard work that Senators Graham and Cassidy undertook to understand and act on our issues. As a result of the delegation’s relentless work to educate our colleagues on Alaska’s challenges, I thoroughly expect that when this bill is reintroduced and reviewed, Alaska’s unique healthcare landscape will again be recognized, as it was in Graham-Cassidy. “Finally, it’s imperative that we continue to work toward a better healthcare system for Alaskans and all Americans. The Affordable Care Act has not worked as promised and continues to collapse across the country. We are now at a crossroads. One-third of my Democratic colleagues have signed onto a bill, introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders, which would force an estimated 155 million Americans off of their private insurance plans and into a healthcare system controlled and run by the federal government that would cost tens of trillions of dollars. The Graham-Cassidy bill would have brought significant federal resources to states, recognizing all of our unique healthcare challenges, and would have brought the decision-making closer to the people.” # # #
09.18.2017	09.18.17 Sullivan Votes for Defense Bill with Critical Arctic, Missile Defense Authorizations WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined 88 of his colleagues in voting for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which provides $700 billion in vital defense spending for Fiscal Year 2018. Senator Sullivan was able to include 28 amendments and provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA. “The overwhelmingly bipartisan passage of the NDAA is a significant – and long overdue – step toward rebuilding America’s military strength,” said Senator Sullivan. “At the same time threats around the globe have grown in number and severity, the defense budget has declined by nearly one-quarter over the past several years. The Senate sent a powerful message to our Armed Forces, our allies, and our adversaries, that we intend to substantially increase military funding. From advancing missile defense and enhancing our Arctic interests to supporting our troops and reassuring our allies, I was proud to include provisions in this year’s bill that will both protect American citizens and help Alaska.” Advancing Homeland Missile Defense: “Despite increased U.S. diplomatic pressure, North Korea continues its highly provocative missile and nuclear testing,” said Senator Sullivan. “Meanwhile, our nation’s top military leaders continue to warn that it’s no longer ‘if’ North Korea will have the capability to strike U.S. cities with a nuclear missile, but ‘when.’ By including the vast majority of the substance of my missile defense bill, the Senate today made a strong and bipartisan statement that we recognize the threat, and we will lead the way in bolstering our nation’s ability to protect the U.S. homeland from an unstable and unpredictable North Korean dictator.” Earlier this year, Senator Sullivan introduced S.1196, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act. Senator Sullivan’s missile defense amendment to the NDAA – like the AAMD Act – includes an increase of up to 28 ground-based interceptors (GBIs). This is the second largest GBI capacity increase ever, and up to 20 of these GBIs are slated to go to Fort Greely, Alaska. The amendment also includes language to help jump-start silo construction at Fort Greely and calls for a report analyzing the potential for up to 104 GBIs distributed across the U.S. In addition, as a part of $630 million in added funding for the Missile Defense Agency, Senator Sullivan also worked to secure an additional $27.5 million to begin the development of new space-based missile defense sensor technologies. Securing our Arctic Interests: “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in the Senate in a bipartisan manner to secure the authorization of up to six new icebreakers, the largest single authorization of icebreakers ever,” Senator Sullivan said. “I am hopeful that this much-needed authorization will begin to dramatically improve America’s Arctic capabilities and access to this region, which many recognize is growing in strategic importance. With rapidly increasing commercial interest in the Arctic and Russia’s continued military build-up, the Senate today showed that America intends to secure its interests in this critical part of the globe.” Senator Sullivan included ten Arctic-related provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA, including the authorization of six new polar-class icebreakers, an examination of ice-hardening Navy vessels, and a Department of Defense review of what forces, capabilities, infrastructure, and deep water ports are needed to protect U.S. security interests in the Arctic region. Furthermore, the FY 2018 NDAA mentions the Arctic 61 times, more than the past two NDAAs combined. Search and Rescue Provisions: “Alaska’s Air National Guard Rescue Squadrons provide year-round life-saving rescue services in Alaska, and overseas when deployed,” Senator Sullivan said. “Alaskans know the importance of our state’s search and rescue capabilities and, as a result, I fought to include language to help drive the modernization of our Air National Guard combat rescue units, encourage Active Duty rescue units to do additional training in Alaska, increase the number of helicopters in Alaska’s rescue squadrons, and secure funding for the innovative Arctic Sustainment Package.” Overall, Senator Sullivan included five combat rescue-related provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA. Rebuilding the Military and Restoring Readiness “For too long, we have under-funded and under-resourced our nation’s military,” said Senator Sullivan. “This year’s NDAA gives a well-deserved pay raise to our nation’s brave men and women in uniform and finally begins the process of rebuilding our country’s military capability.” The NDAA secured critical end strength increases with 5,000 additional active-duty soldiers and 1,000 active-duty marines. Additionally, the NDAA supported an across-the-board 2.1% pay raise for U.S. Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. Alaska-specific Provisions and Funding: Alaska and the KC-46: Given Alaska’s status as the hub of combat airpower – with incoming F-35A squadrons, a large F-22 presence, and other strategically located aviation assets – Senator Sullivan’s amendments express that the Air Force should, in the short-term, study the possibility of increasing the number of tankers at Eielson AFB and, in the long-term, take a hard look at basing the OCONUS KC-46A at a strategically-located installation with abundant training opportunities, like Alaska. Innovative Readiness Training: Senator Sullivan’s amendment supports future local reserve training projects in Alaska, including Operation Arctic Care, which provides roving medical and dental care to Rural Alaska villages. Kodiak Spaceport: Given the importance of assured access to space to U.S. national security, Senator Sullivan’s amendment highlights and encourages expanding the Department of Defense’s and the Missile Defense Agency’s use of FAA-licensed spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak Island, as a vital part of our space and missile-defense test missions. Israeli Arrow-3 Test on Kodiak: Fully authorizes the test of an Israeli missile defense system – the Arrow-3 missile system – set to take place at the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska in 2018. SUSV Replacement: Senator Sullivan’s amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to develop a practicable and executable acquisition strategy for the procurement of the Joint All-Terrain/All-Weather Support Vehicle (JAASV)—a replacement for the nearly 40-year-old Small Unit Support Vehicle (SUSV). Large-scale Exercises in the JPARC: In response to recent large-scale air and land exercises by some of our adversaries, Senator Sullivan’s amendment drives the Department of Defense to begin planning additional large-scale air and land combined exercises, and requires them to analyze ideal locations for these exercises, like Alaska’s Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex (JPARC). Alaska Military Construction at Eielson Air Force Base: The NDAA fully authorizes $168.9 million for military construction at Eielson AFB related to the beddown of two F-35A squadrons in 2020. $6.3 billion for procuring 60 F-35A fighters: The NDAA includes an additional $1.8 billion to fund 14 aircraft more than the administration’s request. These authorized F-35As are likely part of the F-35As which will beddown at Eielson AFB. International Focus: FONOPs Policy: Senator Sullivan’s amendment makes clear that the policy of the U.S. with regard to Freedom of Seas is “to fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows.” It also states that the Secretary of Defense should routinely and regularly conduct freedom of navigation operations (FONOPs) in critical transportation corridors and, where possible, do so with our allies. Importance of Allies: One of the greatest advantages the United States has is that it is an ally rich nation and our potential adversaries are ally poor. Senator Sullivan’s amendment includes language to let both our allies and adversaries know that United States intends to both deepen our existing alliances and foster new ones. U.S.-Japan Relationship: Senator Sullivan’s amendment expresses the Sense of the Senate that the U.S. and Japan are indispensable partners and the security alliance between our two countries plays an essential role in promoting peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region. Counter Russian Activity in Europe and the Arctic: Senator Sullivan’s amendment robustly supports the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) – a fund developed to counter Russia’s provocative activities and authorized at $4.6 billion this year’s NDAA – and notably includes the Arctic as an area where U.S. military forces are needed to counter increased Russian aggression. # # #
09.14.2017	09.14.17 Sullivan Advocates for Vital Missile Defense Funding in NDAA “The threat is now on the doorstep of every American city” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate Floor today about the need to pass the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes an amendment he authored to bolster America’s homeland missile defense system in the wake of growing threats from North Korea. This amendment contains the majority of the senator’s Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act, which has been cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 27 senators. “Over the past several years, the federal government has not taken homeland missile defense seriously enough. From 2006 to 2016, the Missile Defense Agency's budget has declined nearly 25 percent, and funding for homeland missile defense testing has declined by nearly 83 percent,” Senator Sullivan said. “Meanwhile over the course of just five years in North Korea, Kim Jong-un has conducted more missile tests and over twice as many nuclear tests as both his father and grandfather did in their sixty years in power. The threat of North Korea's nuclear intercontinental ballistic missile capability is now on the doorstep of every American city. “We have the capability to defend against this threat through much more enhanced missile defense. This year's NDAA reverses the long-term trend of homeland missile defense neglect by growing the number of ground-based interceptors, modernizing the ‘kill vehicle’ and advancing space-based sensor technologies, dramatically increasing testing, and integrating existing missile defense systems. It’s time for Congress to step up and deliver greater security for the American homeland.” Senator Sullivan’s missile defense amendment – like the AAMD Act – includes an increase of up to 28 ground-based interceptors (GBIs) – 14 of which would be slated for Fort Greely, Alaska. The amendment also includes language to help jump start silo construction at Fort Greely and calls for a report analyzing the potential for up to 100 GBIs distributed across the U.S. In addition, Senator Sullivan also worked to secure an additional $27.5 million to begin the development of new space-based missile defense sensor technologies. # # #
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Sullivan Congratulates Singh on State Department Nomination WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today congratulated Manisha Singh, the senator’s senior policy advisor and chief counsel, on her nomination by President Trump to become Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs. “While I’m sad to see Manisha leave the Senate if confirmed, her departure will be a big gain for the State Department, our country and Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “Having worked with Manisha at the State Department and now in the Senate, I cannot overstate her wealth of knowledge and passion for foreign policy and economic diplomacy. Her service will be invaluable to the department as the Trump Administration works to make our nation more prosperous and secure by creating economic opportunities for American workers. She also has deep knowledge of Alaska’s international economic, trade, and energy opportunities. She’s an excellent candidate for this job and I hope the Senate confirms her promptly.” Prior to her service in Senator Sullivan’s office, Singh served as a senior aide to the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee and as a deputy assistant secretary of state in the Bureau of Economic, Energy, and Business Affairs when Senator Sullivan served as the assistant secretary of this State Department bureau. Singh has also practiced law at multinational law firms and worked in-house at an investment bank. She holds an LL.M. in international legal studies from the American University Washington College of Law, a J.D. from the University of Florida College of Law and a B.A. from the University of Miami. She also studied at the University of Leiden Law School in the Netherlands. Singh speaks fluent Hindi. ###
09.05.2017	09.05.17 Sullivan Statement on Trump Administration’s DACA Announcement WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “The DACA program was enacted without the approval of Congress and very likely exceeded President Obama’s authority under the Constitution. America is a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. I believe we can remain faithful to both of these critically important ideals. “Going forward, in addition to securing our border, it is important to keep in mind that the beneficiaries of the DACA program came to our country as children through no fault of their own. Most are hardworking, law-abiding members of our communities, including hundreds in Alaska. I intend to work with Republicans and Democrats to address these particular immigration cases through legislation both with compassion and a respect for the rule of law.” # # #
08.30.2017	08.30.17 ICYMI: Sullivan Discusses North Korean Threat on CNN ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) was interviewed by CNN’s Kyung Lah regarding the escalating threat from North Korea and Senator Sullivan’s legislation, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act, which seeks to strengthen and improve the reliability, capability, and capacity of U.S. homeland missile defense. The CNN crew also met with members of the Alaska National Guard 49th Missile Defense Battalion, and toured the missile defense assets at Fort Greely, “home to America’s last resort against a launched ICBM.” “Doing nothing in the face of this threat – when we clearly have the capability to make sure we have a very protected homeland – is not an acceptable option, and I think most Americans would agree with me on that,” said Senator Sullivan. Senator Sullivan’s bipartisan AAMD Act, which now has 27 cosponsors in the Senate, would do the following: Authorize the procurement of an additional 28 interceptors, and require our military to look at having up to 100 interceptors distributed across the U.S. Authorize the more rapid development of new and better kill vehicles—the “bullets” that intercept warheads in space—and a layer of space-based radars to track missile threats from launch to intercept, a technological advancement that would improve all missile systems. Push to better integrate our current and future ground-based radars that allow the U.S.—both independently and in concert with space-based capabilities—to have an “unblinking eye” when it comes to picturing an incoming missile with incredible detail and precisely target it for intercept. Increase the pace of missile defense testing to allow U.S. forces to learn from actual launches of our defenses and increase confidence in the effectiveness of the system. # # #
08.25.2017	08.25.17 Sullivan Hosts Coast Guard Commandant in Alaska ANCHORAGE, AK – Earlier this week, at the invitation of U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Admiral Paul Zukunft, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), travelled to Nome, Shishmaref, Cold Bay, King Cove and concluded his tour with a visit to the USCG Cutter Healy, currently underway in the Bering Sea. During his visit, Admiral Zukunft and Senator Sullivan engaged with community leaders and discussed how the U.S. Coast Guard and federal government can best serve Alaska’s coastal communities. “Admiral Zukunft and I have had numerous conversations about Alaska’s unique role in our nation’s security, as well as the challenges and economic opportunities our rural communities face as they see increased vessel traffic through the Bering Strait,” Senator Sullivan said. “We’ve also discussed the critical role Cold Bay plays as a medivac hub for surrounding communities, and the need for a more permanent Coast Guard presence in the area. We’ve also talked about the necessity of building the life-saving road from King Cove to Cold Bay. However, there is no substitute for being on the ground and hearing about these issues from members of the communities impacted. I thank the Admiral for making the trip and I thank the many gracious Alaskans who greeted us. We were both greatly moved by our warm welcome. I also thank the brave men and women of the Coast Guard who execute their mission to keep us safe in some of the most challenging environments on the planet. My goal as Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard is to continue to get more Coast Guard assets and presence to Alaska.” In Nome, Senator Sullivan and Admiral Zukunft met with local leadership, including Nome Mayor Beneville, to discuss the impact of increasing activity in the Arctic. In Shishmaref, Senator Sullivan and Admiral Zukunft participated in a community meeting, where they heard from leaders about the need for greater Coast Guard presence in the region during the summer months as well as their efforts to address coastal erosion. During their visit to Cold Bay, Senator Sullivan and Admiral Zukunft met with Mayor Schaack and City Administrator Angela Simpson and discussed the critical role Cold Bay plays as a medivac hub for surrounding communities, as well the need for a more permanent Coast Guard presence, and the potential that the dock could provide to relieve congestion at Dutch Harbor and Kodiak ports. While visiting King Cove, Admiral Zukunft and Senator Sullivan met with Mayor Henry Mack, where they discussed the need for a life-saving, single lane, 11-mile road that would connect the community of King Cove to an all-weather airport in Cold Bay. They also toured the school in King Cove, and met with students. The last stop on their two-day trip through western Alaska was to the CGC Healy, a medium icebreaker currently underway in the Bering Sea. During their visit, Senator Sullivan and Admiral Zukunft met with the CGC Healy crew, and discussed their oil pollution response capabilities in the Arctic, as well as the need to recapitalize the heavy icebreaker fleet. ###
08.22.2017	08.22.17 Sullivan Statement on Afghanistan Strategy ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today following President Trump’s speech on America’s strategy in Afghanistan and South Asia: “I commend President Trump for his strong speech last night outlining a revised strategy for Afghanistan. I am encouraged that the President – following recommendations from Secretary Mattis and others – outlined clear principles to govern our continued presence there. Ensuring that Afghanistan does not again become a safe haven for global radical Islamic terrorist operations remains a fundamental U.S. national security interest. It is particularly significant that the President indicated U.S. involvement going forward would be based on strategic considerations rather than arbitrary timelines, and that he emphasized increasing pressure on Pakistan to eliminate terror safe havens as well as working with our allies and partners in the region. “In this regard, I was pleased to see the President publicly recognize the strategic importance of India’s economic and development assistance in Afghanistan, something that I have consistently worked to promote. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I look forward to hearing more details from the Department of Defense on the implementation of this strategy in the near future.” # # #
08.21.2017	08.21.17 Sullivan to Host Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao in Alaska Senator to Convene Alaska Transportation Summit in Anchorage ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today announced that on Thursday, August 24th he will convene an Alaska Transportation Summit with U.S. Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao. The summit will bring together transportation leaders from across the state, and will focus on strengthening relationships with the Alaska transportation sector and discussing the impacts and challenges of federal polices and regulations. “I’m pleased to see Secretary Chao honor her commitment to visit Alaska, and I am excited to host her in our great state,” said Senator Sullivan. “The summit will be a prime opportunity for Secretary Chao to hear directly from Alaskans about our state’s unique transportation challenges, opportunities, and critical infrastructure needs.” On January 11, 2017, Senator Sullivan invited Secretary Chao to Alaska during her confirmation hearing before the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.
08.18.2017	08.18.17 Sullivan Welcomes NOAA Marine Debris Director to Alaska ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week welcomed Nancy Wallace, director of the NOAA Marine Debris Program, to Alaska. The Senator and Director Wallace joined a roundtable discussion with Peter Murphy, Alaska regional coordinator of the NOAA Marine Debris Program, Chris Pallister, director of Gulf of Alaska Keeper, and Molly McCammon, director of the Alaska Ocean Observing System, on the topic of marine debris and the Senator’s Save Our Seas (SOS) Act, which passed the Senate in early August. “I appreciate Director Wallace for taking the time to come to Alaska, a state with a massive coastline that is disproportionately impacted by trash entering the ocean,” said Senator Sullivan. “Director Wallace’s visit sends a strong signal that the federal administration has its attention on Alaska, and is engaged with stakeholders and those on the ground working to keep our shores clean. I also appreciate the efforts of Alaskans, like Chris and Molly, who do such amazing work raising public awareness and helping to clean up Alaska’s coastal ecosystems and prevent further debris from reaching our shores. “With regard to the bipartisan Save Our Seas Act, working with Congressman Don Young, our next objective is to move this legislation through the House and get it to the President’s desk,” Senator Sullivan concluded. The Save Our Seas Act will help confront the marine debris crisis by: Allowing the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize funds to assist with cleanup and response. The Governor of the affected state may request the NOAA Administrator make this declaration. Reauthorizing NOAA’s Marine Debris Program through FY 2022. Its mission is to conduct research on the source of marine debris and take action to prevent and clean up marine debris. Encouraging the Executive Branch – led by the U.S. State Department – to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, support research into ocean biodegradable plastics, examine the causes of ocean debris, develop effective prevention and mitigation strategies, and quantify the economic benefits for treaty nations in addressing the crisis. Timeline: May 2016 – Senator Sullivan chaired a hearing of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife on the marine debris crisis. December 2016 – The Senate passed the Marine Debris Act Amendments, introduced by Senators Sullivan and Booker. January 2017 – Senator Sullivan was named chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard. March 2017 – Senators Sullivan, Whitehouse and Booker introduced the Save Our Seas Act, legislation that was cosponsored by 19 of their Senate colleagues. April 2017 – The Save Our Seas Act was advanced from the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. July 27 – Senator Sullivan chaired a hearing of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard regarding the global marine debris crisis. Director Wallace testified at this hearing. August 3 –The Save Our Seas Act unanimously passed the Senate. # # #
08.18.2017	08.18.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Kathy Heindl WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on August 3 on the Senate floor in recognition of Kathy Heindl, of Kenai, an Alaskan devoting her time to cleaning the banks of the Kenai River and protecting the fishery for future generations. Heindl, a recipient of the Kachemak Heritage Land Trust’s King Maker Award, was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO KATHY HEINDL Mr. President, as I mentioned earlier, I come to the floor every week to talk about my great State and to talk about the people of my great State--the people who make it a better place for all of us. We call these people the Alaskan of the Week. It is one of the most fulfilling parts of my job to come here and talk about people who make a difference, people who don't get a lot of press, people who don't get a lot of attention, but people who are doing the right thing for their country and for their community. Right now in Alaska, we have tourists, people coming from all over, and one of the things happening in Alaska is salmon season. The biggest runs in the world--the bounty of our great State--are happening right now, and the fish are running. If you or anyone listening has ever had the opportunity to catch or eat wild Alaskan salmon, of course, it is the memory of a lifetime. There is nothing better; there is no better fish in the world. There is great salmon fishing all across Alaska, but one of the most heavily fished areas in Alaska and the world is on Alaska's Kenai Peninsula, about 45 minutes from Anchorage. Millions of salmon run up the rivers of the Kenai, drawing tens of thousands of Alaska sports, personal use, and commercial fishermen, as well as visitors from all over the country, all over the world to fish the amazing Kenai River. The area can continue to support a lot of traffic, but when you have that many people on the Kenai, sometimes it does cause congestion. So let me talk about someone who works on these issues for Alaska--Kathy Heindl. Kathy is an engineer with Homer Electric Association on the Kenai. Ten years ago, she visited Alaska as a tourist. She saw the Northern Lights dancing in the winter, the snow-covered mountains, and she knew she was home. She loves the Kenai. There is a sense of freedom there and all across Alaska. It is a place where there is room to pave your own path but support others and the community around you, and, of course, there are the salmon. Since Kathy moved to Alaska, she has been working to give back to the community that she loves so much. She is an active member and past president of her local Rotary Club. She is a member of the Kenai Peninsula Borough Community Emergency Response Team. She is also a member of a group that operates ham radios in order to help if there is a disaster and shuts down cell service or other communication devices. During the summer, right now, she spends much of her free time as a Kenai Peninsula Stream Watch volunteer with the Kenai Watershed Forum, helping to make sure that she will have a sustainable fishery--that we will have a sustainable fishery in the Kenai and throughout the State for generations to come. A few times a week, for as many as 6 hours at a time, she roams the fishing spots, picking up trash, helping others, speaking with anglers. She talks to them about how to protect themselves. She carries around safety goggles--you never want a hook in the eye. She talks about what happens when you run into a bear, which happens a lot in our great State, and the best way to avoid them, and importantly, she educates anglers on how to protect the vegetated banks on this great river to maintain the health of the river and the amazing salmon in it. The vast majority of the people in Alaska and from out of State who fish the Kenai are responsible and want to help in any way they can, and they love Kathy's help, but, still, all the activity in the area has created erosion problems, which has the potential to hurt the fish. The Kachemak Heritage Land Trust, a land stewardship and conservation trust based in Homer, recently recognized Kathy's efforts and presented her with the King Maker Award. “It is your selfless actions that help protect the vital habitat needed for salmon to live and thrive,” the land trust wrote to her. “Great role models such as yourself can inspire others in our communities to take action by following your lead'' and your example. Mr. President, I want to congratulate Kathy for all the work she is doing, especially in this busy summer in Alaska, and for being our Alaskan of the Week. # # #
08.11.2017	08.11.17 Senate Commerce Committee to Hold Hearing on Magnuson-Stevens Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chair of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, & Coast Guard, today announced the witnesses who will testify at a full committee hearing on the reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act in Soldotna on August 23. Additional stakeholder hearings are being planned for the fall. Wednesday, August 23, 2017 – 1:00 P.M. AKST Full Committee Hearing: “Reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act: Oversight of Fisheries Management Successes and Challenges” Location: Kenai Peninsula College, 156 College Rd, Soldotna, AK 99669 Panel 1: Dan Hull, Chair, North Pacific Fishery Management Council Sam Cotten, Commissioner, Alaska Department of Fish and Game Reed Morisky, Member, Alaska Board of Fisheries Spud Woodward, Director, Coastal Resources Division, Georgia Dept. of Natural Resources Panel 2: Glenn Reed, President, Pacific Seafood Processors Association Ben Speciale, President, Yamaha Marine Group Linda Behnken, President, Halibut Coalition; Executive Director, Alaska Longline Fishermen's Association Ragnar Alstrom, Executive Director, Yukon Delta Fisheries Development Association Ben Stevens, Director, Hunting & Fishing Task Force, Tanana Chiefs Conference Panel 3: Shannon Carroll, Deputy Director, Alaska Marine Conservation Council Julie Bonney, Executive Director, Alaska Groundfish Data Bank Lori Swanson, Executive Director, Marine Conservation Alliance Duncan Fields, Gulf of Alaska Coastal Communities Coalition Liz Ogilvie, Chief Marketing Officer, American Sportfishing Association # # #
08.07.2017	08.07.17 Senate Passes Sullivan’s Save Our Seas Act WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. Senate last week unanimously passed the Save Our Seas (SOS) Act, legislation introduced by Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Cory Booker (D-NJ) to address the global marine debris crisis. The bill would boost the federal government’s domestic and international response to ocean waste, and allow the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize additional funds to states, like Alaska, for cleanup and response efforts. “Over the course of years and decades, marine debris deposited in the ocean half a world away inevitably finds its way to our coastal communities and ecosystems. Alaska feels the brunt of this crisis with its extensive coastline,” said Senator Sullivan. “I’m heartened that Senators from coastal and landlocked states alike – from both parties – have come together to support the Save Our Seas Act, which is now one step closer to becoming law. I encourage my colleagues in the House to move swiftly, so that we can reauthorize NOAA’s vital Marine Debris Program and enact other measures to clean up Alaska’s waters and protect our marine environment.” “Plastic garbage and other junk crowding our oceans and shores is more than an eyesore. It’s a threat to vital ocean and coastal ecosystems and our economy,” said Senator Whitehouse, a Co-Chair of the Senate Oceans Caucus. “This bill tackles the marine debris crisis along American coasts. It will also push us to work with other countries on limiting the plastics and other harmful materials that find their way to the ocean. That includes working on an international agreement to stop the flow of trash from land into the ocean, and, if trash does get to the ocean, supporting research into new materials that break down in a way that won’t wreak havoc in our seas. Thank you to Senators Sullivan, Booker, and all the bipartisan cosponsors for helping to see this bill through.” Every year, roughly eight million metric tons of mismanaged waste from land enters the oceans. The waste then breaks down into tiny pieces that can enter the marine food web and harm fish and wildlife, and wash ashore on even the most remote beaches. A recent study published by the Marine Pollution Bulletin revealed that cleanup workers in Alaska collected 11 tons of debris on 50 total miles of beaches. The Save Our Seas Act will help confront the marine debris crisis by: Allowing the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize funds to assist with cleanup and response. The Governor of the affected state may request the NOAA Administrator make this declaration. Reauthorizing NOAA’s Marine Debris Program through FY 2022. Its mission is to conduct research on the source of marine debris and take action to prevent and clean up marine debris. Encouraging the Executive Branch – led by the U.S. State Department – to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, support research into ocean biodegradable plastics, examine the causes of ocean debris, develop effective prevention and mitigation strategies, and quantify the economic benefits for treaty nations in addressing the crisis. The SOS Act now goes to the House for consideration, where the House Oceans Caucus Co-Chairs have introduced companion language. Timeline: May 2016 – Senator Sullivan chaired a hearing of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife on the marine debris crisis. December 2016 – The Senate passed the Marine Debris Act Amendments, introduced by Senators Sullivan and Booker. January 2017 – Senator Sullivan was named chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard. March 2017 – Senators Sullivan, Whitehouse and Booker introduced the Save Our Seas Act, legislation that was cosponsored by 19 of their Senate colleagues. April 2017 – The Save Our Seas Act was advanced from the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. July 27 – Senator Sullivan chaired a hearing of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard regarding the global marine debris crisis. # # #
08.04.2017	08.04.17 Senate Unanimously Passes Sullivan-Backed “Forever” GI Bill Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, spoke yesterday at the national Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) headquarters to celebrate the Senate’s unanimous passage of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, legislation co-sponsored by Sullivan, alongside Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA), that would eliminate the 15-year expiration date for veterans to use their G.I. benefits and expand eligibility to more veterans, service members and their dependents. “The G.I. Bill really enabled members of the Greatest Generation to work hard, pursue their dreams, and do amazing things for America after World War II,” said Senator Sullivan. “We now have a new ‘Greatest Generation,’ the post-9-11 men and women in uniform who went overseas to defend our country after the terrorist attacks. I believe this legislation is going to bring out the same can-do spirit in a new generation of veterans and service members, encouraging them to get their education, better themselves, and continue to contribute to the well-being of Alaska and our nation. I’m optimistic we will get this bill to the President’s desk, and I’m excited for what these reforms will mean for so many patriotic Alaskans and their families.” The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017—named in honor of Harry Walter Colmery, an Army Air Service veteran and former national commander of the American Legion who drafted the original G.I. Bill in 1944—makes much-needed updates for reservists, Purple Heart recipients, veterans who face school closures while enrolled, and surviving family members. The legislation also provides increased resources and authority for educational assistance to pursue science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs, computer programming, and career technical training. The bill recognizes the country’s need for an agile and adaptable workforce and that American workers need to be lifelong learners. For that purpose, the legislation eliminates the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their G.I. Bill so they can use their benefits at any time in their professional career. Additionally, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017: Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists mobilized under selected reserve orders for preplanned missions in support of the combatant commands or in response to a major disaster or emergency; Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists undergoing medical care; Provides full G.I. Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients regardless of length of service; Extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients; and Increases G.I. Bill payments by $2,300 per year for veterans with less than 12 months of active service. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. In addition to the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, the Senate also unanimously passed the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017, legislation to improve the efficiency of the veterans’ benefits appeals process, reducing the enormous backlog of cases and ensuring veterans receive timely responses on their appeals. # # #
08.04.2017	08.04.17 Sullivan, Murkowski Help Increase Treatment Options for Terminally Ill Right to Try Act Passes Senate WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. Senate passed bipartisan legislation, co-sponsored by U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski (both R-AK), that gives terminally ill patients an alternative route to treatment, providing such patients options to access investigational agents not yet approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Trickett Wendler Right to Try Act, improves care for patients through providing access to more individualized treatment from medical professionals, without undermining the FDA’s authority of requiring physical certification of treatments. Those suffering from terminal illnesses will now have the opportunity to access investigational treatments to meet their complex needs. “Individuals suffering from a terminal illness and their family members are faced with an anguishing struggle for wellness,” said Senator Sullivan. “In many cases, these patients would like the opportunity to pursue experimental drugs or equipment, even if the odds are long. They should have that right. The Trickett Wendler Right to Try Act removes the threat of federal interference in these incredibly sensitive cases, allowing states to pass laws that fit the needs of their residents. I thank my colleagues, under the leadership of Senator Ron Johnson, for passing this commonsense legislation that may give families in harrowing circumstances a glimmer of hope.” “We must exhaust all options and use every tool in our toolbox when providing support for those fighting terminal illnesses. So many of us have personal connections with those who have lived with ALS, a disease that knows no cure. To offer support to people like Matt Bellina, a U.S. Veteran suffering with ALS is so important,” said Senator Murkowski. “My hope is this bill will provide support to not only the individuals with terminal illness, but also to their families and loved ones seeking answers to their struggle.” ###
08.02.2017	08.02.17 Sullivan, Heitkamp Applaud Senate Passage of POWER Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) today applauded Senate passage of S. 717, the Pro bono Work to Empower and Represent (POWER) Act, to help combat domestic abuse and sexual violence. Senators Shaheen (D-NH), Murkowski (R-AK), Capito (R-WV), Cornyn (R-TX) and Daines (R-MT) also were original co-sponsors of the bill. “Passage of the POWER Act by the Senate is a solid avenue to raising awareness that legal assistance is a critical first step in helping victims of domestic violence become survivors,” said Senator Sullivan. “Pro bono assistance from Alaska’s legal community has been a particularly helpful tool in giving hope to victims of domestic violence. The POWER Act will bring this tool to more communities, encouraging lawyers across the country to get involved and help victims who too often fear or are unfamiliar with the justice system. I call on the House of Representatives to swiftly move to pass this commonsense bill, so we can get the POWER Act onto President Trump’s desk as soon as possible.” “As former state attorneys general, Senator Sullivan and I understand how a legal advocate – or just awareness of services available – can make a difference in the lives of women and men across the country who live under the shadow of domestic abuse and sexual violence,” said Senator Heitkamp. “By encouraging more partnerships in every state to provide pro bono legal services, we can help offer the education, awareness, and legal tools for victims who would otherwise not be able to afford or seek the resources they need to escape, survive, and rebuild their lives. The U.S. Senate stands united behind victims of abuse by unanimously passing our bill. Our bill tells victims across this country, including those in North Dakota, that there is hope, and it’s another step forward in the long-term fight to end the cycle of domestic violence so we make sure everyone is safe in their homes and communities.” The POWER Act directs that each year, the United States Attorney in each judicial district across the country hold at least one event, in partnership with domestic violence service providers or volunteer lawyer projects, which promotes pro bono legal services for survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. Each office is also asked to submit a report detailing the occurrence of the event to the Department of Justice which will then compile the nationwide reports into a single report to be submitted to Congress annually. Providing legal services after the first experience of domestic violence can be a proactive solution to stopping continued domestic violence. Legal representation increases the possibility of successfully obtaining a protective order against an attacker from 32 percent without an attorney to 83 percent with an attorney. Approximately one-in-four women will suffer some form of domestic violence during their lifetime. According to a national survey by the National Network to End Domestic Violence, in one day over 12,000 requests for services, including legal representation, by domestic violence survivors were unmet. Additionally, critically important to both Senators is addressing the high rates of domestic and sexual violence among the Native American and Alaska Native populations in their states. The bill includes a provision requiring many U.S. Attorney’s offices to work with the Native populations in their judicial district in planning and holding an event every few years with a focus on addressing these crimes in Indian Country and among Native populations. Senators Sullivan and Heitkamp, both former attorneys general of their states, understand how the legal system can help break the cycle of abuse. Congressman Joe Kennedy (D-MA), alongside Congressman Don Young (R-AK), Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-IN), and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced companion legislation in the House in March 2017. # # #
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Sullivan Chairs Hearing on Magnuson-Stevens Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today chaired a hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, & Coast Guard regarding the reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSA). Among the witnesses was Chris Oliver, an Alaskan testifying for the first time before the subcommittee in his new role as Assistant Administrator for Fisheries at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Oliver previously served as the Executive Director of the North Pacific Fishery Management Council since 2000. “For so many Alaskans and their families and so many throughout the country, fishing is a way of life. The Magnuson-Stevens Act has played a vital role in protecting Alaska’s abundant fish stocks, ensuring they are strong for future generations,” said Senator Sullivan. “As Congress considers whether or not the MSA is in need of change, it’s important that we not simply rest on previous gains. Since the MSA was last reauthorized, technology has rapidly advanced, yet legislation able to support that technology has not. Better understanding the health of stocks and how technology can assist in that regard, as well as reducing administrative or regulatory burdens on our fishing industry, are topics ripe for discussion and possible elements of a reauthorization. As chairman of the subcommittee, I hope to bring Republicans and Democrats together on a reauthorization that will support a stable food supply, recreational opportunities, and plentiful fishing and processing jobs that provide for vibrant coastal communities.” In his written statement for the record, Mr. Oliver laid out his vision for the reauthorization of the MSA. “I believe there are opportunities to have it both ways – to maximize our domestic harvest potential, without compromising the long-term sustainability of the resources we manage,” said Mr. Oliver. “We are committed to working with Congress throughout the Magnuson-Stevens reauthorization process with regards to annual catch limits, accountability measures, stock rebuilding, or other aspects of our management construct, while still protecting the overall, long-term conservation and sustainability of the nation’s fishery resources.” The full hearing can be viewed at: https://sen.gov/1NL. # # #
07.28.2017	07.28.17 Sullivan Statement on Latest North Korea ICBM Test WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the Pentagon confirmed today that North Korea has conducted yet another ballistic missile test. “Today’s North Korean test shows that Kim Jong-un will not stop until he has an ICBM that can strike American cities like New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles with a nuclear weapon,” said Senator Sullivan. “While I am hopeful that a diplomatic solution will ultimately prevail, the United States cannot and will not allow an irrational dictator to have a capability that threatens millions of American lives. Period. “This latest test further reinforces the need for a more robust and integrated ballistic missile defense system to protect not only Alaska and the rest of the nation, but also our deployed service members and our allies – which is what my provision in this year’s defense authorization bill begins to do.” Senator Sullivan is an outspoken advocate for bolstering the nation’s missile defense. To counter the threat from North Korea, Senator Sullivan introduced the bipartisan S. 1196 Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act to advance the U.S. missile defense program. The legislation has 27 Senate cosponsors. The bipartisan AAMD Act, much of which is included in the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, would do the following: Authorize the procurement of an additional 28 interceptors, and require our military to look at having up to 100 interceptors distributed across the U.S. Authorize the more rapid development of new and better kill vehicles—the “bullets” that intercept warheads in space—and a layer of space-based radars to track missile threats from launch to intercept, a technological advancement that would improve all missile systems. Push to better integrate our current and future ground-based radars that allow the U.S.—both independently and in concert with space-based capabilities—to “picture” an incoming missile with incredible detail and precisely target it for intercept. Increase the pace of missile defense testing to allow U.S. forces to learn from actual launches of our defenses and increase confidence in the effectiveness of the system. # # #
07.28.2017	07.28.17 Sullivan Statement on ObamaCare Repeal Vote WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement tonight after voting for H.R. 1628, the Health Care Freedom Act: “Three years ago, as I crisscrossed the state, I heard story after story of families and small businesses who were experiencing fewer healthcare choices and paying skyrocketing costs for health insurance,” Senator Sullivan said. “After hearing those stories, I pledged to help those Alaskans who were hurting. Since coming to the Senate, the situation in Alaska and across the country has only gotten worse, and I’ve continued to hear even more heartbreaking stories. My staff and I have worked relentlessly to honor my pledge. Tonight, my heart aches for these hard-working Alaskans and their families, but they should know that I’m not done fighting.” ###
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Sullivan Chairs Hearing on Marine Debris Crisis WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) on Tuesday chaired a hearing of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard regarding the global marine debris crisis affecting many coastal communities and ecosystems, including in Alaska. Among the witnesses testifying at the hearing were David Balton, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Fisheries, and Nancy Wallace, Director of the Marine Debris Program for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). During the second panel, the subcommittee heard from Dr. Melissa Duhaime, an assistant professor at the University of Michigan, and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). “The majority of marine debris in the world's oceans comes from five countries in Asia: China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam,” said Senator Sullivan. “A number of leaders from different countries have expressed interest in cooperating with the U.S. on the issue of marine debris. I’m optimistic that with America leading and engaging, we have the opportunity to achieve meaningful agreements to clean up our oceans. The U.S. State Department has an important role to play, not only in helping other countries bolster their waste management infrastructure, but helping to facilitate cultural change. I appreciate Ambassador Balton and Director Wallace for their attention to this important international challenge.” In March, Senator Sullivan introduced the Save Our Seas (SOS) Act, legislation that would address the global marine debris crisis, with Senators Whitehouse (D-RI) and Booker (D-NJ). Among other measures, the Act would direct the Executive Branch – led by the U.S. State Department – to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, examining the causes of ocean debris, effective prevention and mitigation strategies, and the economic benefits for treaty nations in addressing the crisis. The bill passed unanimously out of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee in April. # # #
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Sullivan Applauds Additional Sanctions on Iran, Russia, and North Korea WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today after voting in support of H.R. 3364, the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, which passed the U.S. Senate by a vote of 98-2. “With passage of this legislation, the United States Congress today sent a clear message to Iran, Russia and North Korea that we will not tolerate aggressive behavior around the world,” said Senator Sullivan. “Whether it’s provocations from North Korea, election meddling by Russia, or maleficence by the Iranian regime, Republicans and Democrats alike agree that they must be held accountable.” ###
07.25.2017	07.25.17 Sullivan Keeps Promise, Votes to Debate ObamaCare Fix WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting to proceed to consideration of healthcare reform legislation. “I’m heartened that my colleagues in the Senate kept their promises to their constituents to begin the process to repeal and repair the Affordable Care Act. Now, the Senate will start an open amendment process that will begin to consider various solutions to address the harm being done by this act. “Since December, I have met with and heard from thousands of Alaskans and I’ve taken their concerns into account throughout this process. While many Alaskans received coverage under Obamacare, more than 23,000 declined to buy outrageously expensive plans they can’t even use, many of them opting instead to pay a fine to the federal government. This is unacceptable. “As the Senate considers legislation and amendments, I will continue to focus on repealing Obamacare’s taxes and mandates, and work to increase support for rural states, like Alaska, with extremely high insurance costs. I will also continue to work to put Medicaid on a sustainable and equitable path, with maximum flexibility given to states to tailor systems that meet their residents’ needs. Lastly, I will continue to fight for significant resources to combat the opioid epidemic taking place in Alaska and across the country. “As we go forward, I will continue to relentlessly advocate for Alaska’s interests and will not vote for a bill that makes things worse for Alaskans.” # # #
07.21.2017	07.21.17 Sullivan Introduces Comprehensive G.I. Bill Reforms Bipartisan measure will make necessary improvements to post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits for student veterans WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, this week co-introduced the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 with Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Jon Tester (D-MT), the chairman and ranking member of the committee. The legislation would enhance the post-9/11 G.I. Bill and improve veterans’ benefits, most notably eliminating the 15-year expiration date for veterans to use their G.I. benefits. “The G.I. Bill has long been a meaningful incentive for enlistees who want to pursue their education and career dreams during or after their military service,” said Senator Sullivan. “At the same time, working with veterans and veterans service organizations, members of the committee have identified commonsense reforms and technical fixes that will enhance this vital benefit for veterans and service members. By creating a ‘Forever’ G.I. Bill, veterans will be able to utilize their earned benefits at the point in their lives that they determine is best for them. It is imperative that we continue to invest in those who serve and bravely sacrifice to keep us safe.” “We have worked closely with our partners in the veterans community and with our colleagues in the U.S. House to ensure this legislation makes the necessary changes to improve the G.I. Bill and helps veterans succeed in their desired career field,” said Senator Isakson. “I am proud to introduce this important legislation with Senator Tester after the House introduced its companion legislation last week. We urge our Senate colleagues to join us in supporting these improvements to the G.I. Bill to help further our investment in the futures of our veterans.” “The G.I. Bill has provided generations of veterans with access to higher education after they have bravely served our country,” said Senator Tester. “It’s been a pleasure working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well as veterans and advocates, to craft bipartisan legislation that will break down barriers to and strengthen education benefits for servicemembers, Guardsmen and Reservists. I look forward to working with Senator Isakson and our colleagues on the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee to ensure veterans have every shot at success.” The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017—named in honor of Harry Walter Colmery, an Army Air Service veteran and former national commander of the American Legion who drafted the original G.I. Bill in 1944—makes much-needed updates for reservists, Purple Heart recipients, veterans who face school closures while enrolled, and surviving family members. The legislation also provides increased resources and authority for educational assistance to pursue science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs, computer programming, and career technical training. The bill recognizes the country’s need for an agile and adaptable workforce and that American workers need to be lifelong learners. For that purpose, the legislation eliminates the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their G.I. Bill so they can use their benefits at any time in their professional career. Additionally, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017: Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists mobilized under selected reserve orders for preplanned missions in support of the combatant commands or in response to a major disaster or emergency; Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists undergoing medical care; Provides full G.I. Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients regardless of length of service; Extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients; and Increases G.I. Bill payments by $2,300 per year for veterans with less than 12 months of active service. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. The Act has garnered broad bipartisan support in the Senate. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Reps. Phil Roe (R-TN), and Tim Walz (D-MN), chairman and ranking member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on July 13. # # #
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Murkowski, Sullivan Commend House Passage of King Cove Legislation Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, both R-Alaska, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 218, legislation to authorize a land exchange needed to construct a short road between the isolated communities of King Cove and Cold Bay, Alaska. H.R. 218 was introduced and championed by Rep. Don Young, R-Alaska, and passed the House with bipartisan support from 248 members. “I commend Congressman Young for his leadership and for bringing a life-saving road for the people of King Cove one step closer to reality,” Murkowski said. “After years of needless suffering, including 63 medevacs since December 2013 alone, I am grateful to have bipartisan support in Congress and – finally - an administration that understands why a road is the best and only option to truly protect the health and safety of local residents.” "The federal government has for years been telling the people of King Cove that protecting birds is more important than their health and safety,” Sullivan said. “This is unconscionable. I thank Congressman Don Young for his fierce determination to get this bill passed in the House, and will work with Senator Lisa Murkowski to pass it in the Senate. The residents of King Cove deserve nothing less.” H.R. 218 is identical to S. 101, Murkowski and Sullivan’s King Cove Road Land Exchange Act. The bills facilitate an equal value land exchange between the State of Alaska and the federal government for a 206-acre land road corridor. The corridor would account for just 0.06 percent of the 315,000-acre Izembek National Wildlife Refuge and is needed to facilitate an 11-mile, gravel, one-lane road segment that will connect two existing roads within and outside of the refuge. Once constructed, the road will link King Cove to the all-weather airport in nearby Cold Bay and will provide local residents with reliable access to emergency medical transportation. Without the road, local residents have endured 63 medevacs, including 17 by the U.S. Coast Guard, just since former Interior Secretary Sally Jewell callously rejected the life-saving road. King Cove is located between two volcanic mountains near the end of the Alaska Peninsula, about 625 miles southwest of Anchorage. The small gravel airstrip in King Cove is typically closed by bad weather for more than 100 days each year. Nearly 40 percent of the flights not canceled are impacted or delayed by wind, turbulence, fog, rain, or snow squalls. By comparison, the all-weather airport in Cold Bay, which is less than 30 miles away from King Cove, is home to the fifth-longest runway in the state and closed an average of 10 days per year. ###
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Sullivan Congratulates Balash on Interior Nomination WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today congratulated Joe Balash, the senator’s chief of staff, on his nomination by President Trump to become Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Land and Mineral Management. “While I’m sad to see Joe leave the Senate, his departure is a big gain for Secretary Zinke, the Department of Interior, the United States and Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “His wealth of knowledge and passion for Alaska – and more broadly, federal land issues – cannot be overstated. His advice and counsel on natural resource matters will be invaluable as Secretary Zinke and the Trump administration chart a new path toward American energy dominance. Alaska can and should be a critical element of this important national objective.” Prior to his service in the Senate, Balash has served as commissioner of the Alaska Department of Natural Resources, an advisor to two Alaska governors, and in several positions in the Alaska Legislature. Balash’s nomination will first be considered by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, chaired by Senator Lisa Murkowski. ###
07.14.2017	07.14.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Gene Zerkel WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor in recognition of Gene Zerkel, of Anchorage, a legend of Alaska’s aviation industry who sadly passed away last week. Zerkel was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO GENE ZERKEL Mr. President, as you know, for months now, I have been coming to the floor to recognize a special Alaskan, somebody who makes my great State a better place for all of us to live, someone we call the Alaskan of the Week, usually an unsung hero who has done great things but doesn't want anyone to tell you about it because they are humble people. Some of these people have been very well known throughout the State, and others, as I mentioned, are doing their jobs in different communities throughout the State, but they are all considered our Alaskans of the Week. Unsung, well known--they all share a love for Alaska for good reason: There is so much to love about our great State. I know most of the people in this room and watching on TV and in the gallery think of Alaska as a majestic place, majestic landscape. It is true. It is majestic, but it is truly the people of Alaska who make it such a special place, kind and generous people, patriots and pioneers who pave the way for the rest of us and leave a very indelible and important mark on my State and, in many cases, our country. Today, I would like to recognize one of these very special Alaskans, a trailblazer, someone whose work has touched nearly every corner of the State, someone whom we recently lost, unfortunately, just last week, but his memory will last forever. I am talking about Gene Zerkel, who was a member of the "greatest generation" and an aviation legend in the great State of Alaska. I don't have to remind you, but many others throughout our country don't know just how important aviation is to Alaska. In my State, our skies are the highways and the roads. We have about 8,000 general aviation pilots in Alaska, which is more than any other State per capita by far, and with good reason: There are no roads and ferry services to over 100 communities in Alaska, including regional centers like Bethel, Nome, Barrow, and Kotzebue. That means everything from mail services to baby diapers has to be flown in by plane, and if someone gets sick and needs to go to a hospital, the only way they get to see a doctor is by a plane. Our pilots and our airline industry are essential to serving the people of Alaska, and Gene Zerkel has been a part of that service, a legendary part of Alaska aviation, for decades. Let me tell you a little bit about Gene. He lived life on his own terms and defined it through love of God, family, country, and aviation. The latter--his passion for aviation--took hold when he was just 3 years old, then living in Indiana when he took his first airplane ride with a barnstormer. He was so taken with it, when he grew up, he continued to do some of those kinds of flights, traveling in airshows. Like so many in the “greatest generation” in our nation, he enlisted in the Army Air Corps during World War II and later joined the U.S. Air Force. He continued his passion for aviation after he left the military. Some of his favorite adventures were flying during the construction of the DEWLine throughout Alaska and Canada in the 1950s. In 1973, he fulfilled a lifelong dream so many people in America have, which was to come to Alaska and start a family. He started to fly in the great skies above Alaska. We are a better State and a safer State for it. In Alaska, he owned and operated Great Northern Airlines and became senior VP of operations and maintenance for the legendary Mark Air. He also started Alaska Aircraft Sales and Maintenance, which still operates to this day on Lake Hood in Anchorage, AK. He was an innovator. He transformed the de Havilland DHC-2 Beaver into what was known as the “Alaska Magnum Beaver,” and he was known for always putting safety first. In 2007, Gene was awarded the Wright Brothers Master Pilot Award from the U.S. Department of Transportation and the FAA in recognition of his more than 50 years--half a century--of promoting aviation safety within the aviation industry, particularly in Alaska. Gene lived for 90 years. He saw so much and did so much for many of us. His name is written above the skies of Alaska. But most importantly, he was a devoted husband of 48 years to his wife Joyce and the faithful father of ten children. I had the good fortune of calling Gene a friend and was able to visit with him a few weeks ago. At 90 years old, he was still full of life and spark and energy and passion and optimism. I have also been in touch recently with one of his sons, a young Alaskan hero, Keenan, who has his father's passion for serving our country, with many deployments to Afghanistan as part of the 210th Rescue Squadron of the Alaska Air National Guard. He is literally a true hero in my State. Keenan carries on his father's passion for aviation, Alaska, and serving in the military. Gene's love of country, family, and aviation will always be with us. My wife Julie and I pray for his family and his friends during this time. Mr. President, I yield the floor. # # #
07.12.2017	07.12.17 Sullivan Lauds Committee Passage of BUILD Act Includes Amendment Limiting Alaska Native Liability for Clean-up of Contaminated Lands Conveyed Under ANCSA WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, thanked his colleagues for passing S. 822, the Brownfields Utilization, Investment, and Local Development (BUILD) Act of 2017, out of committee today. The BUILD Act includes an amendment, co-sponsored by Senator Sullivan, that would protect Alaska Native Villages and Corporations from liability for the clean-up of contaminated lands conveyed to them under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA). “In the decades since the signing of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, some Alaska Native tribes and organizations have been left potentially on the hook for the clean-up of lands they received that were polluted or contaminated by the federal government. That’s not fair, and it’s not right,” said Senator Sullivan. “We’ve been fortunate to have several of these affected Alaskans make the long trip to Washington in recent months to deliver compelling testimony. With the passage of the BUILD Act and my amendment out of committee, we are one step closer – as Ranking Member Tom Carper described it – to ‘righting a wrong.’ I thank my colleagues for acting on a challenge that may not directly affect their own constituents, but which no less is the responsibility of Congress to fix.” The Build Act now goes to the Senate floor for consideration. # # #
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Sullivan Applauds State Innovation Waiver for Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today commended the Trump Administration – including Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Seema Verma – for working with the State of Alaska to grant a State Innovation Waiver under Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act. The state applied for the waiver following legislation signed by Governor Bill Walker last year which appropriated $55 million to the Alaska Reinsurance Program in order to reduce spiraling health insurance costs. The waiver will provide Alaskans and the state temporary relief while Congress continues to debate a longer-term solution. The federal government will reimburse the state roughly $48 million next year. For the following four years, that number is expected to increase based on enrollment in the individual market. “I appreciate Secretary Price and Administrator Verma for working with the state – unlike the previous Administration – to address the high cost of health insurance in Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “I also want to applaud the Director of the Division of Insurance Lori Wing-Heier for all of her hard work as well as the Alaska Legislature for passing the reinsurance bill that paved the way for this waiver. “While the expected decrease in premiums for Alaskans following the waiver will be welcome news, we still have much work to do to provide affordable health care for all Alaskans. As I’ve told my Senate colleagues and the Trump Administration repeatedly, Alaskans are paying the highest costs for healthcare and health insurance in the country – costs that have increased 203 percent since 2013. Providing maximum flexibility to the states, instead of the one-size-fits-all model of the Affordable Care Act, must be a critical element of any healthcare bill we pass in Congress.” # # #
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Sullivan Leads Effort to Postpone August Recess “It is time to get results for the American people” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement regarding Majority Leader McConnell’s decision today to cancel the first two weeks of the Senate’s scheduled August state work period. “We are glad leadership took our concerns into consideration. It is time to get results for the American people.” On June 30, the Senators sent a letter sent to Leader McConnell outlining their request to work through the August recess period. They will continue working to make progress on fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. # # #
07.11.2017	07.11.17 Sullivan Lauds Successful THAAD Missile Defense Test on Kodiak WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today commended the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), the Ballistic Missile Defense Operational Test Agency, and U.S. Army soldiers of the 11th Air Defense Artillery Brigade from Fort Bliss on the successful test of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system at the Pacific Spaceport Complex Alaska (PSCA) on Kodiak Island. “Last night’s successful THAAD test provided further confirmation that we have the capability to defend our bases, our troops, and our allies in places like Japan, South Korea, and Guam against rogue nations like North Korea,” said Senator Sullivan. “It was also an important demonstration of how the THAAD system has evolved, now with the proven capability of intercepting an Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile. “I would like to commend the U.S. Army soldiers from Fort Bliss who conducted the test and all of the other individuals and organizations that assisted in its success. I would also like to thank former MDA Director Admiral Jim Syring for his leadership and vision in selecting Kodiak for this important test – and future tests – and General Sam Greaves for seeing that vision through. Now more than ever, Alaska is the cornerstone of U.S. missile defense.” According to the Missile Defense Agency, last night a ballistic missile target was air-launched by a U.S. Air Force C-17 over the Pacific Ocean north of Hawaii. A THAAD weapon system located at PSCA in Kodiak, Alaska, detected, tracked and intercepted the target. Preliminary indications are that planned flight test objectives were achieved and the threat-representative, intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM) target was successfully intercepted by the THAAD weapon system. Senator Sullivan included an amendment to this year’s defense authorization bill highlighting the importance of the PSCA, and encouraging the Department of Defense (DOD) to consider expanding the use of this facility to meet mission requirements. Senator Sullivan has included a similar provision in the last two defense authorization bills that directed DOD’s attention to the launch facility on Kodiak. # # #
07.07.2017	07.07.17 Sullivan Supports FAA Reauthorization Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, last week joined his colleagues in advancing the reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) out of committee. The legislation, which reauthorizes the FAA through 2021, contains several key provisions secured by Senator Sullivan that are important to Alaska. “Alaska is an aviation state, home to more than 250 communities exclusively accessed by air, and home to more pilots per capita than any other state,” said Senator Sullivan. “Among its provisions, this FAA Reauthorization better protects the rights of airline travelers, improves the efficiency of America’s air traffic control system with new technologies, and makes significant investments in aviation infrastructure. I’m glad to see members from both sides of the aisle coming together to craft a strong bill that invests in the future and makes air travel safer and more reliable than ever before.” Some of the major provisions in the FAA Reauthorization include: Investment in Aviation Infrastructure: The bill supports investment and enhanced safety with an increase in infrastructure spending by authorizing funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) at $3.35 billion in FY 2018. For Fiscal Years 2019-2021, investment would rise to $3.75 billion, a $400 million (or 12 percent) increase. Maintaining the Air Traffic Control System: The Senate bill maintains the current air traffic control system and does not transfer air traffic control services to a private corporation. Aircraft Certification Reform The bill requires the FAA to establish a risk-based framework to accelerate the installation of safety equipment enhancements for small general aviation airplanes. The bill also streamlines the burdensome and slow certification processes by establishing an Advisory Committee to put forth improvements to ensure uniformity and reliability of the process. More importantly, it requires the FAA to better use its existing delegation authorities, and includes certain deadlines to meet milestones. Small Airport Regulation Relief: The bill directs the FAA to apportion AIP entitlement funds to certain airports based on its 2012 enplanement numbers. This protects Manokotak and Haines airports from cuts in AIP funding. Cold Weather Construction: The bill continues the FAA requirement to schedule its review of construction projects so that projects in cold weather states are reviewed as early as possible in order to maximize construction time during the construction season. Infrastructure Regulatory Reform: The bill includes an amendment, championed by Senator Sullivan, limiting the regulation of non-federally sponsored property. Airport owners are currently required to receive FAA approval to make any improvements or changes to any airport facilities, including those that are not related to airfield or aeronautical areas. This amendment limits the FAA’s role to establishing standards, such as height limits or shielding radio signals, ensuring aircraft operations or avionics are not interfered with. As long as the airport owner or operator meets those standards, they could develop non-airfield parcels as they see fit. The amendment was supported by the Airports Council International – North America. Provisions of importance to Alaska include: An authorization of $175 million per year for the Essential Air Service Program, an increase of $25 million beyond the existing appropriation amount, in order to support small community air service. An amendment authored by Senator Sullivan to address pilots’ need to access more weather data, directing the FAA to make available weather observation data provided by the National Weather Service Modular Automated Weather Station (MAWS) through the FAA National Airspace Data Interchange Network. This amendment was supported by the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. A provision authored by Senator Sullivan adding Little Diomede into the Essential Air Service in order to provide regular air service to the community. Language authored by Senator Sullivan to ensure that national requirements for weather forecasting and weather reporting are appropriate for the unique operating environment in Alaska. Language authored by Senator Sullivan to ensure rural residents are able to access replacement batteries for medical devices via safe transport by aircraft. Language supporting and protecting the Federal Contract Tower Program. Language directing the FAA not to discontinue the Contract Weather Observer program at any airport. The legislation now heads to the full Senate for consideration. # # #
07.07.2017	07.07.17 Sullivan, Tester Introduce Serving Our Rural Veterans Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Jon Tester (D-MT), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, recently introduced the Serving Our Rural Veterans Act of 2017, legislation that would authorize a new Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) pilot program to have medical students conduct their residencies with the VA at tribal healthcare facilities in rural communities. “Veterans living in rural communities, far from population centers, face unique challenges accessing the care they have earned and deserve,” said Senator Sullivan. “This VA pilot program builds upon preexisting partnerships and the strong network of tribal healthcare facilities in Alaska and other states by expanding the reach of the VA so that veterans don’t have to travel hundreds to thousands of miles for care they could readily access in their community. An added benefit of the program is enabling medical residents to experience states like Alaska, where many will undoubtedly choose to make a living, a huge plus for a state short on providers. With this proposal, we have the opportunity to expand the VA’s presence, bring more providers to rural states, and – most importantly – better serve our veterans. I’m eager to see this win-win-win proposal supported by my fellow committee members and brought to the Senate floor.” “Thousands of Montana and Native American veterans live in rural areas and face additional challenges when they need to access VA care,” said Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Encouraging medical students to serve their residencies in rural areas will help keep more doctors in Montana communities. Payment by the VA for time spent by residents at non-VA facilities will give these young doctors a unique perspective into treating patients in a different setting. I look forward to steering this bill through the Veterans’ Affairs Committee and on to the Senate floor.” The Senators’ bipartisan legislation would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot program to establish or affiliate with residency programs at facilities operated by Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and the Indian Health Service, and would authorize payment by the VA for the costs associated with training and supervision of medical residents and interns at certain non-Department facilities. Recently, the Serving Our Rural Veterans Act received support from senior VA officials and veterans advocates during a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing. # # #
06.30.2017	06.30.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Solomon Atkinson WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor in recognition of Solomon “Sol” Atkinson, of Metlakatla, an extraordinary Alaskan who served as one of the first ever U.S. Navy SEALs. Atkinson was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO SOLOMON ATKINSON Mr. President, every week I have been coming down to the floor of the Senate to talk about a special Alaskan, someone in my State who, through their hard work and community service, whether to their neighbors or to their country, makes Alaska a better place for all of us. We call these people the Alaskans of the Week. Learning about these individuals and sharing their stories with my Senate colleagues, Alaskans, and Americans who watch what we do here or who are in the gallery, is probably one of the best parts of my week every week. Like most of my colleagues, I will soon be going home for the Fourth of July. We will celebrate this very special holiday with our families and our communities. Some of us will go to barbecues or march in parades or attend other community gatherings. Some of us will gather in spots across our State and watch fireworks. Personally, I will be with my family catching king salmon at my family's ancestral fish camp up on the Yukon River, one of my favorite places in the entire world. Regardless of where we are, all of us will certainly feel a swell of pride for our country. We will remember the hard-fought battles that brought us independence, and we will remember those who have served and sacrificed to keep our country the land of the free and the home of the brave. They are the heroes among us, and Alaska is chock-full of these heroes. Today I want to recognize one of them, a very special hero who is our Alaskan of the Week--Solomon Atkinson, who spent nearly his entire adult life serving our country with honor and dignity and now serves his community in Alaska tirelessly. Let me tell you a little bit about Sol and his illustrious career in the military. Sol was born in 1930 to Harris and Elizabeth Atkinson in Metlakatla, AK. Metlakatla is on Annette Island on the Inside Passage, where so many Americans take cruises to see the glaciers and the whales. It is home to the only federally recognized Indian reservation in our State. Sol could have continued to live in Metlakatla, where he was a commercial fisherman as a young man, but, like so many patriotic Alaskans, he chose to leave his home and join the military. Sol joined the U.S. Navy, and for 22 years--from 1951 to 1973--he had by anybody's standards a remarkable patriotic military career. In 1953, Sol volunteered for the Navy's legendary Underwater Demolition Team and was deployed to the Pacific, including Korea. Some history buffs will know and recall that the Underwater Demolition Team, the UDT, was the precursor to the present-day Navy SEALS--frogmen, as they liked to call themselves. In fact, Sol was on the very first Navy SEAL team created by President Kennedy in 1962, and I have a copy of the SEAL Team One plank owners certificate, commissioned on January 1, 1962, with Sol's name proudly displayed. So Sol became a Navy SEAL--the first Navy SEAL, literally. He became a SEAL team training instructor, training new Navy SEAL recruits. He was affectionately referred to as “the Mean Machine” by the Navy SEALs. He also had the honor of training 48 astronauts, including Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Jim Lovell, just to name a few, in underwater weightlessness simulations. His prized possession is a framed plaque bearing the signature of all those astronauts, all those American heroes whom he trained. Sol completed three combat tours in Vietnam. By the time he retired from the military, he had earned numerous awards and medals for personal valor, including the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. But what is truly remarkable about Sol is that after he retired from the Navy, he moved back home to Metlakatla and continued to serve his country and serve his community. He served on the Indian Community Council, on the school board, and as mayor of Metlakatla. He has also been very involved in veterans affairs and was the president of the first veterans organization on the island and was instrumental in starting that organization. He has spent years reaching out to his fellow veterans to make sure they receive the benefits, honor, and dignity they earned. Jeff Moran, the superintendent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in Metlakatla, said this about Sol: “I could go on and on regarding the wonderful things that Sol has done for his community. We would not be here today without his leadership and knowledge [and commitment].” I, too, can go on about Sol. Many Alaskans can go on about Sol and all the things he has done. But I also want to mention, particularly on the eve of the Fourth of July, that he is part of a long tradition in my State of Alaskan Natives who have served in the military, who have served our country even during darker times in our history when many Alaskan Natives were discriminated against and denied basic rights. On the eve of the Fourth of July, we celebrate America's independence but also in particular those who have fought for that independence over the last 200 years. As I mentioned, one proud element of my great State is that we have more veterans per capita than any State in the country, and Alaska Native veterans serve at higher rates in the U.S. military than any other ethnic group in the country--something I like to refer to as a special kind of patriotism because they have been doing this for decades, like Sol--even at times, as I mentioned, when the country hasn't always treated that group of patriotic Americans with the respect and dignity they deserve. Sol personifies this special patriotism. The SEALs who served with him wrote this about him in a tribute. Sol's story will continue to be told by the men he trained, by the officers who relied on him, by the Frogmen who all respect him. An officer, a gentleman, an athlete, a friend, Sol Atkinson is all of these, but of all of these traits, he is first a Frogman. We can see the pride the Navy SEALs have for Sol, a plank owner for the entire organization. In conclusion, I will add that he is a patriotic Alaskan through and through, and I thank him for all he has done for Alaska, for our veterans, and for America. Sol, congratulations on being our Alaskan of the Week. Happy Fourth of July to you, to Alaska, and to all the men and women in our military and the citizens of our great Nation. # # #
06.30.2017	06.30.17 Murkowski and Sullivan Introduce Package of Bills to Improve the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, both R-Alaska, this week introduced a total of 15 bills to improve the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) and ensure that it continues to serve Alaska Native residents, tribes, and corporations. “ANCSA was intended to be a living measure that would change as the needs of Alaska Natives changed,” Murkowski said. “Over the years, Congress has amended the Act more than 40 times, and this package contains the latest series of common-sense solutions to real issues that have arisen with it. The bills we introduced will help ensure the federal government lives up to its promises to Alaska Natives, and I am eager to work with Sen. Sullivan and the rest of my colleagues to advance it.” “Since the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act’s passage in 1971, it has been amended many times,” Sullivan said. “This comprehensive legislation, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Improvement Act—would be the latest iteration, and is needed to assist in the resolution of issues specific to many communities in Alaska. This bill is a combination of many small efforts and aims to resolve many local issues, some of which have been around since the initial passage of ANCSA. This collection of provisions doesn’t represent monumental issues for Congress, but is life changing for the citizens across our great state that are affected by this bill. I look forward to working with Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young to address them.” Murkowski and Sullivan introduced 14 discrete bills and the conglomerated ANCSA Improvement Act of 2017 to address issues associated with the 46-year-old law and other federal statutes affecting Alaska Native communities. The bills in the package correct oversights in the original Act and respond to challenges ranging from erosion to incomplete land selections. Introducing both individual measures and one comprehensive bill will give Murkowski and Sullivan greater flexibility to move them through the Senate. The ANCSA Improvement Act would: S. 1486, allows the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation (UIC) to obtain gravel for construction in Ukpeagvik (formerly Barrow) from underneath its surface estate holdings inside a local gas field, as intended by legislation enacted in 1984. S. 1482, grants Shishmaref an easement for a road to provide access to a rock source needed to protect the village against coastal erosion. S. 1483, ensures the Shee Atika Corporation can maximize shareholder compensation for land sales it has already initiated with the federal government. S. 1484, creates a mechanism for Sealaska to exchange its subsurface estate at Cube Cove, located within the Admiralty Island National Monument, to the Forest Service in exchange for other lands. S. 1485, provides Cook Inlet Region Inc. (CIRI) with options from which to select land owed to it under ANCSA. S. 1487 and S. 1490, allows Kaktovik to select its remaining lands, Canyon Village to select lands at its original northeast location, and Nagamut to select lands closer to its residents’ traditional hunting sites or settle their land claims. S. 1491, authorizes urban corporations for five Southeast communities—Ketchikan, Wrangell, Petersburg, Tenakee and Haines—and more than 4,500 Alaska Natives who were unjustly left out of representation under the terms of the original Act. S. 785, improves the selection process so that Alaska Natives who served during the Vietnam War are eligible to select land allotments to help make good on the 1998 federal commitment to provide land to those who served our country in war. S. 1492, allows the Secretary of the Interior to convene a meeting of the shareholders of the 13th Regional Corporation for the purpose of electing a board of directors, thereby providing a process for the Alaska Natives who gave up their aboriginal land claims and moved to the Lower 48 to reconstitute the corporation. S. 1493, directs a study of the effects that federal land acquisitions have had on Chugach Alaska Corporation’s ability to develop its subsurface estate in Prince William Sound, as well as options for a possible land exchange where the corporation could trade those holdings to the federal government in exchange for other lands or bid credits. S. 1494, increases the amount that Alaska Natives can earn in dividends from regional, village, and urban corporations that is exempt from income limitations for federal “needs based” programs. This would be the first such increase in nearly 30 years and is necessary to account for inflation. S. 1495, makes a technical change to allow corporations to simplify their bookkeeping by converting fractional shares of ANCSA stock to full shares, which is important when computing dividends for shareholders. S. 1496, clarifies the definition of a corporation under ANCSA to enable those that have lost legal status to reincorporate, allowing their shareholders to benefit from original ANCSA provisions. All of the bills listed above were introduced this week with the exception of the veterans’ allotment provision, which Sullivan and Murkowski introduced on a stand-alone basis in late March. Murkowski is chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. More information on the ANCSA Improvement Act and its component bills is available on the committee’swebsite. ###
06.30.2017	06.30.17 Group Of Senators Call For Cancellation Of August Recess “We are united in our belief that we must work with a sense of urgency to deliver conservative solutions for pressing legislative issues on behalf of the American people.” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan was joined by Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL) and Thom Tillis (R-NC), in asking Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to cancel the Senate’s scheduled August state work period if meaningful progress has not been made on the following five priorities: fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on Friday, June 30, which included a countdown of the remaining scheduled work days until the end of the fiscal year, September 30. “Our current Senate calendar shows only 33 potential working days remaining before the end of the fiscal year,” said the senators in the letter. “This does not appear to give us enough time to adequately address the issues that demand immediate attention. Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider truncating, if not completely foregoing, the scheduled August state work period, allowing us more time to complete our work.” “Delivering meaningful results was never assumed to be easy, but the millions of Americans who placed their confidence in our leadership expect our full and best effort,” concluded the senators. View the full text of the letter here and below. Dear Leader McConnell: We are united in our belief that we must work with a sense of urgency to deliver conservative solutions for pressing legislative issues on behalf of the American people. Our current Senate calendar shows only 33 potential working days remaining before the end of the fiscal year. This does not appear to give us enough time to adequately address the issues that demand immediate attention. Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider truncating, if not completely foregoing, the scheduled August state work period, allowing us more time to complete our work. There are five imperatives which must be accomplished this year. We must complete the first phase of Obamacare repeal and replace. Next, we have to pass a budget that serves as a reconciliation vehicle for reforming our outdated tax code. Before September 30th, we must agree on an appropriation that responsibly funds the government. Also, we must deal with our debt limit before that approximate date. If we successfully navigate those priorities, we can finally get to our once in a generation opportunity on tax reform. Growing the economy, repairing our infrastructure, and rebuilding our military are all dependent on accomplishing the tasks before us. Each of these issues is challenging in its own right. For example, the passage of a budget and all twelve appropriations bills before September 30th is a rarity, occurring only 4 times in the last 43 years. However, the stakes are much higher this year. We simply cannot afford to lose any additional time in resolving these issues when tax reform is hanging in the balance. Robust change to our tax code is our single most important economic growth tool, and there is already growing anticipation for us to act. Failure to deliver could have devastating economic consequences. We appreciate your leadership, both in advancing our agenda and by moving a package of bills this year to roll back regulations. This effort has already helped deliver much needed relief and advance economic growth. Further, we have been encouraged by your work to date to help us stay on track. However, there is much to be done. Please be assured that our request is fully backed by our commitment to thoughtfully and diligently work through these issues. We simply recognize that making America great again requires a certain time commitment. Delivering meaningful results was never assumed to be easy, but the millions of Americans who placed their confidence in our leadership expect our full and best effort. ###
06.30.2017	06.30.17 Sullivan, Van Hollen Convene Senate Foreign Service Caucus WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) this week were joined by Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Thomas Shannon for the inaugural meeting of the Senate Foreign Service Caucus. Other members attending the meeting included Senators Hatch (R-UT), Murphy (D-CT), Risch (R-ID), and Cortez-Masto (D-NV). “Having worked with many foreign service officers over the years, I know they are every bit as patriotic and service-oriented as members of our military, often facing similar challenges in dangerous corners of the globe,” said Senator Sullivan. “Each of the five branches of the military today have congressional caucuses giving service leaders the opportunity to build relationships with senators and share candidly about their servicemembers’ needs. No such caucus has existed for the foreign service – until now. Senator Van Hollen and I are excited to initiate this new forum that will help the State Department work in tandem with Congress and better support the mission of our brave foreign service officers. I want to thank Under Secretary Shannon for making the launch of this new caucus a success.” “As the son of a Foreign Service Officer, I know firsthand the immense impact our diplomats have on furthering American security, interests, and values abroad,” said Senator Van Hollen. “This bipartisan caucus is the first of its kind to support our Foreign Service and bolster dialogue between the State Department and Congress. We are committed to helping the State Department promote our country’s core interests and values abroad – democracy, human rights, liberty, and security. Thanks to my co-chair Senator Sullivan, our Senate colleagues, and Under Secretary Shannon for joining us and making our first meeting such a success.” Senators Sullivan and Van Hollen announced the formation of the caucus in May as a bipartisan forum for members to discuss the challenges facing those who serve in the U.S. Foreign Service around the world, and collaborate and develop policy recommendations on how they can best support them and the U.S. diplomatic mission abroad. # # #
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Sullivan’s Missile Defense, Alaska Priorities Included in FY18 Defense Bill WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the Senate Armed Services Committee, with U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan’s (R-AK) support, unanimously passed out of committee legislation to authorize $640 billion in critical defense spending for Fiscal Year 2018. “In an increasingly dangerous world, this year’s NDAA begins the important process of rebuilding our military so that our service members have the tools and resources they need to protect America and our interests around the globe,” said Senator Sullivan. “From advancing missile defense and securing the Arctic to reaffirming alliances and freedom of navigation in the South China Sea, my amendments to the NDAA help to restore American power abroad and protect American citizens domestically. Closer to home, we were able to include well over a dozen provisions that directly impact Alaska, including support for Alaska’s 4-25, and encouraging the expanded use of Kodiak’s Spaceport.” Advancing Homeland Missile Defense: Overall, Senator Sullivan was able to include 24 amendments and provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA, which included the majority of S.1196, Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act. Senator Sullivan’s missile defense amendment – like the AAMD Act – includes an increase of up to 28 Ground-based Interceptors – 14 of which would be slated for Alaska. The amendment also includes language to help jump start silo construction at Fort Greely and calls for a report analyzing the potential for up to 100 GBIs distributed across the U.S. In addition, Senator Sullivan also worked to secure an additional $27.5 million to begin the development of new missile defense sensor technologies in space. “I’ve been saying for months that it’s no longer ‘if’ but ‘when’ Kim Jong-un will get the ability to strike U.S. cities with a nuclear missile,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today members of the committee are making a strong and bipartisan statement that we are going to bolster our nation’s missile defense and continue to protect America from an unstable North Korea. I was pleased to work with my colleagues on an issue that is critical to the security our country, its citizens, and our way of life.” Securing our Arctic Interests: Senator Sullivan included 10 Arctic-related provisions in the FY 2018 NDAA, including the authorization of six new polar-class icebreakers, an examination of ice-hardening Navy vessels, and a Department of Defense review of what forces, capabilities, infrastructure, and deep water ports are needed to protect U.S. security interests in the Arctic region. “As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I have focused on educating my colleagues about the importance of the Arctic,” said Senator Sullivan. “From the authorization of six new icebreakers to directing the U.S. Navy to start thinking about ice-hardening its vessels, I am proud to see the major components of my legislation, the Securing our Arctic Interest Act, included in the NDAA. The Arctic continues to grow in importance and prominence, and I will not stop fighting for this strategically critical region.” Combat Search and Rescue Provisions: Provisions secured by Senator Sullivan require the Air Force to look at speeding the fielding of the Air Force’s new Combat Rescue Helicopter to National Guard rescue units, and examine whether the Alaska National Guard has the number of helicopters it needs to fully meet its unique alert mission requirements. Finally, another provision encourages Air Force rescue unit associations – which would allow Active Duty units to come to Alaska to train and operate with our National Guard rescue squadrons on a regular basis. “Alaskans know well that our National Guard Rescue Squadrons provide year-round rescue response to save lives, whether in Alaska or deployed overseas,” said Senator Sullivan. “This year, I fought to include four important provisions that will help modernize National Guard combat rescue units, encourage Active Duty rescue units to come to Alaska to train, and look at increasing the number of helicopters in Alaska’s rescue squadrons.” Alaska-specific Items: $168.9 million for Alaska Military Construction at Eielson Air Force Base: Fully authorizes $168.9 million for military construction at Eielson related to the beddown of two F-35A squadrons in 2020. This amount is in addition to the $295.6 million authorized and appropriated in Fiscal Year 2017. Israeli Arrow-3 Test on Kodiak: Fully authorizes the test of an Israeli missile defense system – the Arrow-3 missile system – set to take place at the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska in 2018. Alaska and the KC-46: Given Alaska’s status as the hub of combat airpower – with incoming F-35A squadrons, a large F-22 presence, and other strategically located aviation assets – these amendments express that the Air Force should, in the short-term, study the possibility of increasing the number of tankers at Eielson AFB and, in the long-term, take a hard look at basing the OCONUS KC-46A at a strategically-located installation with abundant training opportunities – like Alaska. Innovative Readiness Training: This amendment supports funding future local reserve training projects in Alaska, including Operation Arctic Care, which provides roving medical and dental care to Rural Alaska villages. Kodiak Spaceport: Given the importance of assured access to space to U.S. national security, this amendment highlights and encourages expanding the Department of Defense’s and the Missile Defense Agency’s use of FAA-licensed spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak Island, as a vital part of our space and missile-defense test missions. Arctic Search and Rescue: The Alaska National Guard independently developed an Arctic search and rescue package that allows them to respond to potential large-scale mass-casualty events in the Arctic. This amendment brings attention to that effort and encourages the DOD to provide additional resources to field and expand Arctic search and rescue capabilities. SUSV Replacement: This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to develop a practicable and executable acquisition strategy for the procurement of the JAASV—a replacement for the nearly 40-year-old SUSV. Large-scale Exercises in the JPARC: In response to recent large-scale air and land exercises by some of our adversaries, this amendment drives the Department of Defense to begin planning additional large-scale, air and land combined exercises, and requires them to analyze ideal locations for these exercises, like Alaska’s Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex (JPARC). International Focus: FONOPs Policy: This amendment makes clear that the policy of the U.S., with regard to Freedom of Seas, is “to fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows.” It also states that the Secretary of Defense should routinely and regularly conduct freedom of navigation operations (FONOPs) in critical transportation corridors, and where possible, do so with our allies. Importance of Allies: One of the greatest advantages the United States has is that it is an ally rich nation and our potential adversaries are ally poor. This amendment includes language to let both our allies and adversaries know that United States intends to both deepen our existing alliances and foster new ones. Encourage Increased Role for India in Afghanistan: This provision encourages the Department of Defense to identify ways that India can play a larger role in providing increased and coordinated defense-related support to Afghanistan, a critical part of overcoming the current “stalemate” in the fight against the Taliban. U.S.-Japan Relationship: This amendment expresses the Sense of the Senate that the U.S. and Japan are indispensable partners and the security alliance between our two countries plays an essential role in promoting peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region. Counter Russian Activity in Europe and the Arctic: This amendment robustly supports the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) – a fund developed to counter Russia’s provocative activities and authorized at $4.6 billion this year’s NDAA – and, notably includes the Arctic as an area where U.S. military forces are needed to counter increased Russian aggression. ###
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Sullivan Secures Authorization of Six New Polar Icebreakers in Defense Bill WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the Senate Armed Services Committee unanimously passed out of committee the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes a provision authored by U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) to authorize the procurement of up to six U.S. Coast Guard polar-class icebreakers. “The United States continues to be late to the game in the Arctic, as evidenced most clearly by our meager existing fleet of Coast Guard icebreakers capable of operating in this important region,” said Senator Sullivan. “My colleagues on the Armed Services Committee recognize this shortfall, and worked with me – in a bipartisan fashion – to incorporate this critical and long overdue authorization for six new icebreakers into this year’s NDAA. With rapidly increasing commercial activity and sea traffic in the Arctic and Russia’s alarming military build-up, America can no long afford to neglect this area of the globe. I am hopeful that my provision and the larger NDAA will be considered by the full Senate in the near future.” Offered as an amendment to the FY 2018 NDAA – and cosponsored by Sens. Angus King (I-ME) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) – Senator Sullivan’s provision would authorize up to six polar-class icebreakers for the Coast Guard, including both medium and heavy icebreakers. Additionally, Sullivan’s amendment requires a report from the Government Accountability Office to study how best to quickly procure icebreakers at the best value for the U.S. taxpayer. BACKGROUND: The United States currently has only two operational polar icebreakers, the heavy icebreaker Polar Star – which was commissioned in 1976 – and the medium-duty Healy – which was designed for scientific research. Russia has 41 governmental and privately owned conventional and nuclear icebreakers, with 11 additional icebreakers in development or planning, including three new nuclear-powered icebreakers to be completed by 2020. # # #
06.28.2017	06.28.17 VA Appeals Modernization Bill Advances to Senate Floor WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, applauded the unanimous passage of S. 1024, the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017, out of committee today. “One of the most serious failings of the VA system in recent years has been the unconscionable backlog of disability claims,” said Senator Sullivan. “Each of those unanswered appeals is a veteran awaiting a decision the VA owes them. With more than 470,000 veterans waiting for rulings, the reforms put forward in this bipartisan legislation cannot be implemented soon enough. The legislation eliminates duplicative and unnecessary steps in the appeals process, provides greater accountability for officials making these decisions, and gives veterans new avenues to resolve their claims expeditiously. I’m also glad to see the Fully Developed Appeals proposal, something I’ve put forward since 2015, incorporated into this reform package. Our men and women in uniform who have given so much to our country deserve to be served in a timely manner and treated with dignity and respect. This appeals bill is another long overdue step toward restoring that standard.” The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act would create three separate paths for veterans to choose from when seeking redress from a decision by the Veterans Benefits Administration on their claims for VA benefits. The legislation would allow certain veterans already going through the appeals process to opt in to the new system and give the VA secretary the authority to test facets of the new system prior to full implementation. The bill would also require the VA to provide a comprehensive plan for both implementing the new system and processing existing appeals. Under the new process, veterans dissatisfied with the initial decisions on their claims will be able to: Seek a higher-level review by a regional office on the same evidence presented to the original claims processors; File a supplemental claim with a regional office that would include the opportunity to submit additional evidence; or Appeal directly to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals, resulting in a possible hearing and/or the opportunity to submit additional evidence. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. Following today’s committee passage, the bill heads to the full Senate for a vote. # # #
06.27.2017	06.27.17 Sullivan Chairs Oversight Hearing on NOAA Marine Sanctuaries WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today chaired a hearing of the Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard overseeing the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Marine Sanctuaries program. “While the concept of National Marine Sanctuaries is well-intentioned, many of these protected areas have caused challenges for coastal communities that are dependent upon accessing America’s water resources,” said Senator Sullivan. “National Marine Sanctuaries establish duplicative regulations that can limit sustainable and economically beneficial commercial and recreational fishing, usurping the authority of existing management entities such as the Regional Fisheries Management Councils. When this happens, the protection of America’s precious marine resources is taken out of the hands of the very institutions and experts who have done so successfully for generations.” The hearing featured the testimony of several stakeholders and witnesses who have dealt directly with National Marine Sanctuaries, including Ernie Weiss, Natural Resources Director for the Aleutians East Borough. “The process to nominate National Marine Sanctuaries is a public process that necessarily includes local stakeholders, and that's a good thing,” said Mr. Weiss. “However, the process would be strengthened by requiring initial involvement in proposal submission by local community groups that would be most impacted. Regional Fisheries Management Councils must be consulted prior to designation, but in the North Pacific, the council is already the right management authority doing the work supported by communities, protecting the marine environment while providing research and educational opportunities.” The full hearing can be viewed at:https://www.commerce.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/hearings?ID=212AF2A6-2FAA-4AF3-87F5-438E094FC34B # # #
06.27.2017	06.27.17 Sullivan Statement on WOTUS Withdrawal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan released the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) efforts to withdraw and rewrite the overreaching Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. “I have long advocated for repealing the lawless WOTUS Rule, which gave the EPA vast new authority over lands across the country, particularly in Alaska, which is home to more jurisdictional waters than any other state. I applaud the EPA for taking steps to rescind the rule and implement the Clean Water Act based on the principle of cooperative federalism, working in partnership with the states and the people who know best how to regulate their waters. “Going forward, I will work with the Administration, my colleagues in the Senate, and the people of Alaska to make sure that any rule under the Clean Water Act does not needlessly hinder development, farming, or property use, while protecting our waters.” ###
06.27.2017	
06.23.2017	06.23.17 Sullivan-Backed VA Accountability Bill Signed into Law WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, thanked President Trump for signing S. 1094, the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, legislation cosponsored by Senator Sullivan. “I want to thank President Trump for signing this important piece of legislation into law, the product of bipartisan work and cooperation in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee,” said Senator Sullivan. “The VA Accountability Act is an important step toward restoring the trust and confidence of veterans in the VA. Secretary Shulkin now has the tools and flexibility needed to change the culture within the VA by firing employees who are ill-serving our veterans. As such, I expect to see swift action to ensure veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve.” The legislation: Increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. Includes safeguards for whistleblowers against retaliation, as well as greater training for VA supervisors on effective management and the rights of whistleblowers. Requires the VA to report to Congress on employee morale, and update members on the effectiveness of the new accountability measures granted to the VA. In addition to support from Secretary Shulkin, S. 1094 has been endorsed by a number of veteran service organizations, including the American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Reserve Officers Association, AMVETS, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, and Concerned Veterans for America. # # #
06.22.2017	06.22.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Lee Jordan WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke Monday on the Senate floor in recognition of Lee Jordan, of Eagle River, an instrumental supporter of the Alaska Baseball League. Jordan was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO LEE JORDAN Madam President, for the last few months, I have been coming down to the floor to recognize someone in my State who, through acts both small and large, has made the State better for all of us. I call this person our Alaskan of the Week. What I am going to do is I am going to talk a little bit about baseball as part of the Alaskan of the Week. We saw how important baseball is with regard to a sport that can bring Americans together. Just last week, I think people all across the country--certainly in DC and certainly here in the Senate--saw how important that is. We had that great game--Democrats and Republicans last week coming together. I am a little biased here about the Republican team, with Senator Flake and Senator Paul. We didn't win, but it was a good game. I know we are all still praying for those injured last week, Congressman Scalise and others, but it is important to see how that great American pastime brings us together as a Nation. There are many great things about my wonderful State. But in Alaska, baseball also brings us together. So I would like to recognize today one of the many people throughout the State who keeps the special institution of baseball alive in Alaska. This gentleman's name is Lee Jordan. He is from Eagle River. Now, I would venture to guess that most people, when they think of Alaska, think about our spectacular mountains and glaciers. They might think about fishing, our delicious salmon, thousands of miles of State and Federal parks, and our vast wilderness. But baseball probably isn't the first thing that comes to many people's mind when they think about Alaska. Actually, those who follow baseball understand how important Alaska summers are to taking young college students with raw talent and growing them under the midnight Sun into seasoned, professional baseball players. This is the Alaska Baseball League, and it is one of the premier baseball leagues in the summer in the United States. Let me give you a few names of those who have come up through the Alaska Baseball League. It has produced some of the most important Major League stars, including Mark McGwire, Barry Bonds, Tom Seaver, Dave Winfield, and Randy Johnson, just to name a few. Alaska's six-team league includes two teams in Anchorage, one in Fairbanks, one in Palmer, one in Kenai, and--thanks to the unrelenting enthusiasm of Lee Jordan--one in Chugiak-Eagle River, AK, a picturesque area about 20 minutes from Anchorage, nestled in the Chugach Mountains. It is part of Anchorage, but it is also very much its own place, with a sense of pride and people who live there like Lee. Let me tell you a little bit about Lee Jordan. He was originally from Alabama, where football, not baseball, was king. When he enlisted in the Army in 1947, his choice of overseas assignments was, according to him, “anything but Alaska”—“anyplace but Alaska.'' But he got Alaska, and he stayed and he loved it, and he settled in Chugiak-Eagle River. Before long, he owned the local newspaper, the Alaska Star--now the Chugiak-Eagle River Star--and he was coaching his son's Little League baseball team. When they got too old for Little League, he began to form new leagues for them to play in, which his boys did. Eventually, his sons got too old for all the leagues, but Lee kept up the love of the game. Then he and former State Senator Bill Stoltze, a good friend of mine and another huge booster of baseball in Alaska, hatched a plan to get a team to their area as part of the Alaska Baseball League. So the first Chugiak-Eagle River-Chinook game was in 2011, and it is now called the Lee Jordan Field and the Loretta French Sports Complex, and they have been going strong ever since. This is such a beautiful place. Right now in Alaska every year, we have a midnight Sun baseball game in Fairbanks played on June 21, the summer solstice, the longest day of the year. That game begins at 10:30 p.m. and goes until the wee hours of the morning under a never-setting midnight Sun. But there are few more beautiful places in the world than Chugiak-Eagle River. Lee Jordan thinks the ballpark is the most beautiful ballpark anywhere, and I can't disagree. As I have mentioned many times on the floor, it is all about communities. It is all about communities coming together, and Lee has made that happen for Alaskans and baseball lovers, not only in our great State but throughout the country. For that reason, he is our Alaskan of the Week. # # #
06.20.2017	06.20.17 Sullivan Congratulates Alaskan Chris Oliver on Appointment to Lead National Marine Fisheries Service WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, congratulated Chris Oliver, an Alaskan who has served as the Executive Director of the North Pacific Fishery Management Council since 2000, on his appointment to serve as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Assistant Administrator for Fisheries. “I can’t think of a more qualified or capable individual to manage America’s fisheries than Chris Oliver – the first Alaskan ever to permanently hold this important role,” said Senator Sullivan. “Chris garnered the resounding support of dozens of fishing organizations across America, including many in our state, based on his extensive experience overseeing the largest and the best-managed fisheries in the country. For so many Alaskans and their families, fishing is a way of life. They can rest assured that Alaska’s interests will be well-represented and the concerns and perspectives of commercial, charter, and recreational fishermen alike will be valued at NMFS as we work to protect Alaska’s marine ecosystems and sustainably manage our fisheries for abundance.” # # #
06.16.2017	06.16.17 Sullivan, Warren Introduce Bipartisan Protecting Servicemembers Online Act Bill to Close "Revenge Porn" Loophole in UCMJ, Protect Servicemembers From Harassment WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, have introduced the Protecting Servicemembers Online Act of 2017 to help protect servicemembers from “revenge pornography.” The legislation would amend the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) to prohibit the nonconsensual distribution of pornographic photographs, prohibit harassing communication, and strengthen the tools available to military prosecutors when these instances arise, while also protecting individuals' rights. "The United States Military must continue to provide the toughest training in the world - with the highest standards," said Senator Sullivan. "But this culture should never entail sexual assault and related degrading abuses. This legislation will give military prosecutors the tools they need to put an end to such abuses." "Our military personnel risk their lives for this country, and they deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. This bipartisan legislation is a common sense proposal to help protect servicemembers from degrading behavior that undermines our values and damages unit cohesion," Senator Warren said. "I'm glad to be working with my Armed Services colleague Dan Sullivan to improve the UCMJ and to help put an end to these incidents." There have been multiple documented cases of “revenge porn” in the military, and while senior military officers have condemned the behavior and taken steps to prevent it, the Pentagon has not had the tools to work to shut down the practice. The UCMJ currently has a provision to prohibit taking a photo of another person's “private area,” but does not include a provision to prohibit the nonconsensual sharing of these photos, whether the photo was originally taken with or without consent. A complete fact sheet of the Protecting Servicemembers Online Act of 2017 is available here. ###
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Sullivan Thanks Rep. Young for Companion Missile Defense Bill Sec. of Defense Mattis Affirms Need to Grow Missile Defense Capability WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), today thanked Congressman Don Young (R-AK) for introducing House companion legislation to S. 1196, the Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act. Also, in a SASC hearing this week, Secretary of Defense James Mattis signaled his support for the continued improvement of the U.S. missile defense system, and the need to expand its capabilities as a result of anticipated future threats to the American homeland. “Thanks to Congressman Young’s long-standing advocacy for missile defense and his leadership in introducing House companion legislation, the America’s Missile Defense Act continues to gain traction as we work to bolster our ability to counter the evolving threat from North Korea,” said Senator Sullivan. “Missile defense is a matter of great importance not just to Alaskans, but to all Americans. The prospect of Kim Jong-un developing a nuclear intercontinental ballistic missile endangers communities large and small, from the heartland to the coasts. I want to thank each of my 18 Senate colleagues who’ve already cosponsored this bill for recognizing the urgency of this important national security issue.” Below is a transcript of Senator Sullivan’s exchange with Secretary Mattis: SULLIVAN: Is the nuclear ICBM-armed North Korea the most significant threat we face right now as a nation? MATTIS: It's certainly the one that's in the hands of a potential rogue state that we have to consider. SULLIVAN: And, is it increasing? Increasing that threat. Is it increasing? MATTIS: No doubt. Every test, we assume they’re learning from it. SULLIVAN: We need more missile defense capabilities for our nation? MATTIS: Right now, I believe we can protect the nation. But as we look to the future, absolutely. # # #
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Sullivan Votes for Tougher Sanctions on Iran & Russia WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined with 97 of his colleagues in support of S. 722, the Countering Iran's Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017. The bill imposes tougher sanctions against Iran for its support of terrorism, ballistic missile tests and prohibited arms transfers, as well as sanctions against Russia for its aggression toward its neighbors and cyberattack on the U.S. election system. “I was glad to co-sponsor this important piece of legislation. Following President Obama’s Iran Nuclear Deal, we were assured that Iran would moderate its behavior and that it would become part of the ‘community of nations’ again,” said Senator Sullivan. “This legislation is necessary because the opposite has happened. Iran remains the number one state sponsor of terrorism globally while continuing to violate international restrictions barring ballistic missile testing and illicit arms transfers. Iran must face further consequences for its hostile behavior that threatens U.S. national security and global stability. While this legislation provides important tools to counter Iranian aggression, I’ll continue to work to increase restrictions on Iran’s ability to access U.S. financial institutions.” The legislation also strengthens and expands current U.S. sanctions against Russia in response to its violation of the territorial integrity of the Ukraine and Crimea, its interference in U.S. elections, and its continued aggression in Syria. “We need to send a message to Russia that we will not tolerate its aggressive behavior around the world, and it will face consequences for interfering with our elections here at home,” said Senator Sullivan. # # #
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Sullivan Lauds Army Force Structure Decision WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the Force Structure Decision released today by the U.S. Army: “Today's Army Force Structure decision reaffirms what we already know – that the 4-25 IBT (ABCT) at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson is there to stay. As a strong and consistent supporter of increasing the size of our Army, I am pleased to see this decision confirmed once again. I remain hopeful that we can restore all of the other Obama-era force cuts so that we have a military force that has everything it needs to defend our strategic interests in an increasingly dangerous threat environment.” # # #
06.13.2017	06.13.17 What They Are Saying: Senator Sullivan’s Save Our Seas Act WASHINGTON, DC – In conjunction with Capitol Hill Oceans Week (CHOW), U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced the strong support of a number of key stakeholders and advocacy organizations for the Save Our Seas (SOS) Act, legislation addressing the global marine debris crisis, introduced by Sullivan and Senators Whitehouse (D-RI) and Booker (D-NJ). The National Marine Sanctuary Foundation hosts CHOW, an annual conference “examining current marine, coastal and Great Lakes policy issues.” Below are stakeholder reactions to Senator Sullivan’s Save Our Seas Act: “In today’s political climate, this legislation, supported by both Republicans and Democrats, shows that there is nothing political about better understanding the impacts of marine debris, and doing everything we can to solve this problem.” – Nicholas Mallos, director of Ocean Conservancy’s Trash Free Seas Program. “We strongly support several features in this much needed bill, including the reauthorization of the Marine Debris Act, provisions to further study land-based waste management solutions and causes of marine debris, and increased investment and technical assistance to help expand waste management systems in rapidly industrializing nations.” – Cal Dooley, president of the American Chemistry Council. “This forward-thinking legislation will help the federal government streamline its investments, research, and prevention and response efforts to tackle this growing global problem.” – Todd Shelton, vice president of U.S. government relations for the World Wildlife Foundation. “Alaska's shoreline receives foreign-sourced marine debris…The debris is a threat to wildlife, both in and out of the ocean. It is a scar on beaches, and a huge undertaking to remove. But removal isn't necessary, if it doesn't end up in the ocean to begin with. This bill should be useful from that stance.” – Ketchikan Daily News. “...the fact that this has a rare amount of bipartisan support among unlikely allies, as well as the plastics industry, and asks other countries to take more responsibility for how their actions affect the U.S. may give it a chance.” – WasteDive.com. “Marine debris is not only unsightly, it’s dangerous, as it can harm and even kill marine life including whales, sea turtles and birds. Oceana commends Senators Dan Sullivan and Sheldon Whitehouse for their leadership on the Save Our Seas Act, which will improve our nation’s response to the plastics problem, and encourage international cooperation.” – Jacqueline Savitz, senior vice president for Oceana. “Alaskans for Litter Prevention and Recycling and our business supporters wholeheartedly endorse Senate Bill 756, the Save Our Seas Act. Save our Seas will help us move forward to address the marine debris problem affecting America’s shorelines. Marine debris is a global problem and Alaska is especially hard hit by debris from the Pacific Rim that is moved by the North Pacific Gyre onto our beaches and wetlands. The cost is substantial particularly in Alaska where shorelines are extensive, extremely high energy (wave, current and wind) and remote. We must act together to protect and clean up this growing problem.” – Mary Fisher, executive director of Alaskans for Litter Prevention and Recycling Board of Directors. “Unfortunately, every year, between five and 14 million tons of trash enter our oceans. Some studies have estimated that by the year 2025 our oceans will be so polluted that they will consist of one pound of plastic for every three pounds of fish. Thankfully a bipartisan group of senators has introduced a bill, “The Save our Seas Act” (S-756) that will help address the marine debris crisis. As America’s anglers we need to show our support for this bill that will help to keep fishing environments clean.” – The National Professional Anglers Association. “NMMA supports the bill, recognizing the importance of protecting the nation’s waterways for future generations of marine habitats, boaters and businesses.” – National Marine Manufacturers Association. “Keeping America’s oceans and waterways clean is very important to boaters and anglers, and we encourage the entire industry to send letters in support of this bill to their Congressmen…” – Martin Peters, senior manager of government relations for Yamaha Marine Group. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) have also signed on as co-sponsors of the legislation. # # #
06.09.2017	06.09.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Marty Shroyer WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor in recognition of Marty Shroyer, of Kotzebue, an Alaskan who helped initiate an effort to feed the hungry in his community. Shroyer was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO MARTY SHROYER Madam President, every week for some months now, I have been coming to the Senate floor and I have been using the opportunity to talk about someone in my State, the great State of Alaska, who has made a difference. We call that person the Alaskan of the Week. These are individuals who are unsung in many ways and who are doing something for their community, for their State, and in many ways are inspiring everybody. I am a little biased, but I believe I live in the most beautiful State in the country, probably the most beautiful place in the world, full of wonderful people and beautiful landscapes, and we certainly encourage everybody here in the Senate or those who are watching on TV to come to Alaska and experience it themselves, and they will have the trip of a lifetime, guaranteed. We are also blessed to live in a land that provides so much for our physical and spiritual needs. It is a very spiritual place. Alaskans are hardy people; however, like anyplace in the country, people have tough times. Some people are more fortunate than others. But thankfully we have people all across our State--like we have people all across America--who give of themselves so that those in difficult situations can receive the care they need. Today I want to take you to Kotzebue, AK, or what we often just refer to as Kotz. Kotz is about 550 miles northwest of Anchorage, 26 miles north of the Arctic Circle in Alaska's Northwest Arctic Borough. About 3,000 people live in Kotzebue. It is one of our bigger villages, and it is a hub for dozens of smaller villages that dot this enormous, beautiful region. Like most of Alaska, it is cold in the winter, and it is beautiful now under a never-setting Sun. The midnight Sun in Kotz is high in the sky. There are wonderful people there. Like most places in Alaska, particularly in smaller villages in rural Alaska, community is everything. People take care of each other. People band together to help each other overcome challenges that can exist in the extreme environments we have in Alaska. Let me tell my colleagues today about Marty Shroyer, who is one of the very generous residents of Kotzebue and who is our Alaskan of the Week. Born in Kotzebue, Marty is the general manager of Kotzebue Electric Association, where he has worked for more than 24 years. He has been married to his wife Lucy since 1977. They have six children and seven grandchildren. In his free time, he fishes--very common--plays hoops, and loves to cook for his family. He is also involved in the Boys and Girls Club and his Tribal government. But here is why I want to talk about Marty and why he has been such an inspiration not only in Kotzebue but throughout the State. On Thanksgiving 2015, Marty got sick, and over the next several weeks, he had to go to the hospital repeatedly. While he was there, he noticed a group of people who would gather around the free coffee that was served at the hospital. He approached one of them, a woman named Jo-Ann, and asked a very simple question: “Why do you guys hang around here? What are you doing?” She told him: “Well, we don't really have another place to go right now.'' This disturbed Marty greatly. At that time of year in Kotzebue, it can get down to 20 and 30 below zero--a difficult place. “You guys must be hungry,” he said to Jo-Ann, and she said that they were. So the next day and the day after that--5 days a week--Marty and Lucy together used their own money and their own lunch hour during the workweek to make sandwiches--a simple act--30 to 40 sandwiches for that group at the hospital. Every day, every person who needs one gets a sandwich, sometimes turkey and cheese, sometimes caribou or sheefish spread. Marty is anxious for the salmon season to start so he can make salmon spread sandwiches. They also get a juice box and dessert. Simple but generous. Recently, another generous Kotzebue resident, Sophie Foster, began making sandwiches as well, and before you know it, we have a whole community that is doing this, taking this simple example and getting involved. So now some people drop off cinnamon roles or fruit. Others bring back bulk items when they travel to Anchorage. Dozens of people in Kotzebue, AK, are now helping in this effort because of Marty's simple act. People like Marty and his wife Lucy make my State truly unique and a wonderful place. His generosity--doing something seemingly so simple: making a sandwich for someone who is hungry--has now had a big impact not only in Kotzebue but in Alaska. Marty didn't know the impact he would have when he began making sandwiches. “I was just trying to help a few people that day, make them happier.” Marty's actions have initiated a growing conversation in Kotzebue about how best to take care of people who need help. It has drawn attention to homelessness and hunger--very important issues not only in Alaska but throughout the country. Marty spurred this important conversation in Kotzebue and in our State through his simple actions, and that has inspired all of us. Congratulations, Marty, for what you are doing, for your simple acts of inspiration, and for being our Alaskan of the Week. # # #
06.09.2017	06.09.17 Senators Introduce Young Fishermen’s Development Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) yesterday introduced the Young Fishermen’s Development Act, legislation to mitigate the challenges facing new entrants into the fishing industry and bolster recruiting by coordinating existing regional training opportunities and implementing a new apprenticeship program. “Fishing employs more in Alaska than any other industry, but high barriers and costs remain for newer generations attempting to fill the ranks of this vital sector of our economy,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “This legislation will coalesce regional efforts to lower these barriers through new grants, training opportunities and an apprenticeship program that will help harness the experience of seasoned fishermen. Replenishing the stocks of qualified stewards of our fisheries will help ensure Alaska remains the superpower of seafood.” “For centuries, fishing has been at the heart of coastal communities in Massachusetts but it is an increasingly challenging one for new fishermen to join,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “This legislation will help make sure that our fishing industry continues to attract future generations of fishermen. These training programs will help young men and women be able to push off the dock into new careers and make vital economic contributions to their communities.” “This legislation is an important step in addressing some of the barriers facing young people trying to join the commercial fishing fleet,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “Through support of training, education, and workplace development, it is my hope that we can pass down the values and lifestyles that fishing creates. Fishermen are woven into the fabric of our communities in Alaska, so we must ensure that we nurture the incoming generations. I am proud to support our young fishermen.” “Good fisheries management and investments like stock assessments and new vessels are all crucial to the economic success of our fishing industry —but we also need to make investments in the next generation of fishermen,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “This bill would support training and resources for young fishermen looking to access the fishing industry, develop sustainable fishing careers, and support their families. Ensuring generations of fishermen can keep fishing is critical to strengthening our coastal economies.” "As one of those dependent on the long-term success of our working waterfronts, I'm very grateful to Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski for supporting legislation that recognizes the challenges today's fishermen face," said Hannah Heimbuch, an Alaska commercial fisherman and staff for the Alaska Marine Conservation Council. "By supporting independent fishermen with this action, we now have an opportunity to bolster American food security and the health of coastal communities." “The growing bipartisan momentum behind this bill is very encouraging and shows that leaders in both parties understand that fishermen in today’s world need to know a lot more than simply how to fish,” said John Pappalardo, CEO of the Cape Cod Commercial Fishermen’s Alliance. “We appreciate Senator Markey’s leadership in getting this program off the ground because it will give the next generation of fishermen training in fisheries management, business planning and market development tools they’ll need to make a good living bringing sustainable seafood to Americans.” The Young Fishermen’s Development Program would include: Competitive grants program for collaborative state, tribal, local, or regionally based networks or partnerships. A mentorship/apprenticeship program to connect retiring fishermen and vessel owners with new and beginning fishermen. Provide financial support for local and regional training and education in sustainable and accountable fishing practices and marine stewardship, business practices, and technical initiatives that address the needs of beginning fishermen. $2 million annual authorization for 6 years for program implementation. # # #
06.07.2017	06.07.17 Sullivan Presses Shulkin on Future of Veteran Community Care WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today questioned Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin about the Veterans’ Choice Program and the future of community care. “Whether it’s scheduling challenges or veterans being hounded by collection agencies, the problems that need to be addressed are clear,” said Senator Sullivan. “As we consider a path forward for veteran community care, we cannot – and more importantly, veterans cannot – have a repeat of what happened in Alaska when Choice was initially implemented in 2014.” In addition, Senator Sullivan, also a member of Senate Armed Services Committee, applauded the VA’s recent announcement that it will be adopting the Department of Defense’s Electronic Health Record System, allowing for a continuity of records for military service members from active duty into veteran life. “Congressional leaders and experts have recommended integrating the active duty and veterans’ health records systems for decades, and Secretary Shulkin this week is making this important, commonsense modernization a reality,” Senator Sullivan added. # # #
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Major VA Accountability Bill Passes the Senate WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, thanked his Senate colleagues for voting unanimously to pass S. 1094, the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, legislation which Senator Sullivan cosponsored. “Today’s passage of the VA Accountability Act is good news for veterans in Alaska and all across the United States,” said Senator Sullivan. “We are finally giving the authority for officials at the VA to fire bad actors. The vast majority of VA workers do a great job for our veterans. But too many have lost confidence in the VA, and we need to restore that trust. This legislation is an important step in doing just that.” The legislation: Increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. Includes safeguards for whistleblowers against retaliation, as well as greater training for VA supervisors on effective management and the rights of whistleblowers. Requires the VA to report to Congress on employee morale, and update members on the effectiveness of the new accountability measures granted to the VA. In addition to support from Secretary Shulkin, S. 1094 has been endorsed by a number of veteran service organizations, including the American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Reserve Officers Association, AMVETS, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, and Concerned Veterans for America. The legislation now heads to the House for consideration. # # #
05.31.2017	05.31.17 Sullivan, Hirono Fight Proposed Cuts to Essential Air Service; Introduce Legislation to Extend Expiring Funding Program Ensures Air Service to Rural Alaska and Hawaii Communities U.S. SENATE – After the release of President Trump’s budget request, Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI) introduced the Keeping Our Commitment to Essential Air Service (EAS) Act to prevent proposed budget cuts to air service for more than 170 small community airports nationwide by reauthorizing program funding through 2022. “Aviation is absolutely essential to reaching the many remote communities across Alaska’s vast, geographically diverse territory,” said Senator Sullivan. “Essential Air Service provides the only means of transportation for residents in more than 60 Alaska communities—more than one-third of the communities served nationwide. There are no roads or highways connecting these Americans to the rest of the country—just an airstrip. We must work to maintain this strong and safe aviation network which supports jobs and economic opportunities for Americans living in rural areas.” “Serving approximately 20,000 people in Hawaii last year alone, EAS provides reliable and affordable air transportation that is vital to the communities like Kalaupapa and Waimea. President Trump’s deep cuts to EAS would critically impact individuals in these communities who depend on air travel to get the health care they need and support local commerce and jobs,” said Senator Hirono. “This is why I introduced this bill with Senator Sullivan-- helping to ensure our rural residents and their families continue to have access to air service which is their lifeline.” Congress established EAS to ensure that small communities that were served by air carriers before deregulation of the industry in the 1970s would continue to receive scheduled passenger service, with subsidies if necessary. However, President Trump’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 budget proposal would eliminate this funding for the program which could force rural airports to suspend service. The EAS Act was introduced with the following original cosponsors: Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska). “As an island state, air travel is critical to our economy and our daily lives,” said Senator Schatz. “Our bill protects funding that will help maintain air travel servicing Kalaupapa and Waimea.” “Essential Air Service is a lifeline for many communities in rural Alaska. Bringing vital air service to small communities, this program is critical for the health, welfare, and safety of a state like Alaska with such a limited road system. I will never stop fighting to protect this program – truly an essential part of many Alaskans’ everyday life,” said Senator Murkowski. Under President Trump’s budget, EAS would lose $175 million of funding currently appropriated by Congress in addition to amounts funded through overflight fees. This cut represent over half of EAS total funding. The EAS Act reauthorizes the Congressional appropriation of $175 million annually through FY 2022. EAS funding is currently set to expire on September 30, 2017. # # #
05.31.2017	05.31.17 Delegation Commends Secretary Zinke’s Alaska Order Secretarial Order Will Boost Access, Production, and Economy Anchorage, AK – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today expressed their strong support for a new Secretarial Order signed by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke at the Alaska Oil and Gas Association’s annual conference. The order will help evaluate the vast resources within the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A) and the non-wilderness 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, while also restoring access and ultimately increasing production needed to refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. “This Secretarial Order is exactly the type of announcement that so many Alaskans have been asking for: a smart, timely step to restore access to our lands, throughput to our Trans-Alaska Pipeline, and growth to our economy under reasonable regulations that do not sacrifice environmental protections,” Murkowski said. “I thank Secretary Zinke for traveling to Alaska this week, for meeting with stakeholders to understand the unique needs and opportunities of our state, and for moving quickly to ensure we are finally allowed to realize more of our tremendous resource potential.” “I applaud Secretary Zinke’s order to responsibly evaluate how best to realize the development potential of Alaska’s vast energy resources in the NPR-A and 1002 Area,” Sullivan said. “With this order, the Administration will allow the country to finally deliver on the promised energy security and abundance we had in mind when Congress set these lands aside for future exploration and development. To grow our economy and maintain U.S. leadership in the world, America must remain an energy superpower. Robust Alaskan energy development will make this a reality.” “Secretary Zinke’s order, coupled with a very clear commitment to serve as Alaska’s partner, represents exactly what our state and people have demanded from the Department of Interior for years,” Young said. “The message couldn’t be clearer, this administration understands the importance of responsible resource development in Alaska and the Arctic and is focused on addressing the many bureaucratic roadblocks that have stood in our way for far too long. As we work to refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System and unleash Alaska’s full energy potential, I can think of no better time to double our efforts to strengthen opportunities within the NPR-A, to create a stable and reliable regulatory environment, and move forward on accessing and developing our nation’s rich deposits of oil and gas, particularly in the 1002 Area of ANWR. Under Secretary Zinke’s leadership, I believe Alaska no longer has an adversary in the Department of Interior, but a willing partner.” Secretarial Order 3352 calls for a review of the current Integrated Activity Plan for NPR-A, which put half of the reserve’s surface acreage off-limits to development in 2013. Secretary Zinke pledged to work in consultation with the Inupiat and other stakeholders in the Alaska Native community to develop a revised plan to ensure the most productive areas within NPR-A are open for responsible energy development. The Secretarial Order also requires the development of a plan to update federal resource assessments for both NPR-A and the 1002 Area. In 2011, the U.S. Geological Survey revised its assessment for NPR-A downward, drawing criticism from state officials who believed its oil and gas estimates were reduced too far. Murkowski is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. More information about the new Secretarial Order is available here. ###
05.30.2017	05.30.17 Sullivan, Secretary Zinke Meet with Alaska Native Veterans ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke met with Alaska Native veterans in Anchorage this morning to discuss Sullivan’s Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act. The legislation would allow approximately 2,800 Alaska Natives to apply for their government-promised Native allotments of land that they may have missed due to service in the U.S. military during the Vietnam War era. “It was an honor to be able to convene this historic meeting between Secretary Zinke and Alaska Native veterans from across the state to hear their concerns, particularly the need to address the allotment some of them missed due to prior military service,” said Senator Sullivan. “Secretary Zinke, a decorated Navy SEAL, got to witness the special patriotism exhibited by Alaska Natives – how Alaska Natives, generation after generation, have served our country in the military at a higher rate than any other ethnic group. The stories Secretary Zinke heard today were ones I know he will carry with him as he looks to create more opportunity for Alaska Natives and others across the state. I thank Secretary Zinke for coming to our great state and meeting with these great Alaskans.” "I appreciate the Senator hosting today's meeting and was honored to have the opportunity to share the morning with so many Alaska Native warriors," said Secretary Zinke. "Like my home state of Montana, Alaska has a strong veteran heritage, and the Native communities hear the call to serve at greater rates than all others. Their warrior ethos and commitment to our nation should be honored by fulfilling the promises that were made to them. As the legislative process moves forward, I look forward to working with Senator Sullivan and his colleagues in Congress bring this critical issue to conclusion." Veterans attending the event included George Bennet, Benno Cleveland, Eben Olrun, Jerry Ward, Emil Notti, Bill Thomas, Chester Ballott, Lawrence Armour, Nick Jackson, and Nelson Angapak, Sr. Senator Lisa Murkowski has cosponsored the legislation, and Rep. Don Young has introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. # # #
05.30.2017	05.30.17 Sullivan Applauds Successful Missile Defense Test WASILLA, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the U.S. Missile Defense Agency’s (MDA) latest intercept test – Flight Test Ground-based Interceptor (FTG)-15 – of an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile-class (ICBM-class) target. “This test clearly demonstrates to our adversaries that our homeland missile defense system remains on track to defend our country,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today is an important day for our nation’s missile defenders, our scientists and engineers, and the American people. This successful intercept test of an ICBM-like target sends a clear message to the unstable dictator in North Korea that the U.S. Ballistic Missile Defense System can and will shoot down any ballistic missile threat that endangers the American people. “While I am thankful this test was a success and I look forward to the emplacement of the remaining GBIs at Fort Greely, we need to do more to ensure that our missile defense system continues to advance ahead of the rapidly increasing North Korean threat. The strong bipartisan bill I introduced last week in the U.S. Senate will do just that.” Senator Sullivan is an outspoken advocate for bolstering the nation’s missile defense. To counter the threat of North Korea, Senator Sullivan last week introduced the bipartisan S. 1196 Advancing America’s Missile Defense (AAMD) Act to advance the U.S. missile defense program. The bipartisan AAMD Act would do the following: Authorize the procurement of an additional 28 interceptors, and require our military to look at having up to 100 interceptors distributed across the U.S. Authorize the more rapid development of new and better kill vehicles—the “bullets” that intercept warheads in space—and a layer of space-based radars to track missile threats from launch to intercept, a technological advancement that would improve all missile systems. Push to better integrate our current and future ground-based radars that allow the U.S.—both independently and in concert with space-based capabilities—to “picture” an incoming missile with incredible detail and precisely target it for intercept. Increase the pace of missile defense testing to allow U.S. forces to learn from actual launches of our defenses and increase confidence in the effectiveness of the system. # # #
05.26.2017	05.26.17 Congressional Delegation Ready to Welcome Secretary Zinke To Alaska Interior Secretary to Visit Alaska During Memorial Day Work Period Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today announced that Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke will travel to Alaska during the Memorial Day state work period. The trip will be Zinke’s first to the state since his bipartisan confirmation by the Senate in early March. “We’re excited to announce that Secretary Zinke will visit Alaska next week,” the delegation said in a joint statement. “We look forward to showing him the beauty and potential of our state, the impact that his Department’s decisions have on our daily lives, and the opportunity to forge an even closer working relationship that helps put Alaska on a strong footing for years to come.” Zinke is a fifth-generation Montanan. He served as a Navy SEAL officer for more than 20 years, attaining the rank of Commander, and during that time traveled to Alaska for training missions. Zinke has also served as a member of the Montana Senate and as a U.S. Congressman for Montana. On March 1, 2017, the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly confirmed him to be our nation’s 52nd Secretary of the Interior. Zinke will arrive in Alaska with Murkowski and several other senators on Saturday, May 27. He plans to visit Anchorage, Fairbanks, Prudhoe Bay, and other destinations in the state, where he will meet with Department staff and local stakeholders. Sen. Sullivan and Congressman Young will also join Secretary Zinke on select portions of his travels in Alaska. Additional details about Zinke’s schedule are now available from the Department of the Interior. ###
05.26.2017	05.26.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskans of the Week: Alaska’s Missile Defenders WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor in recognition of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance’s 2017 Missile and Base Defenders of the Year: SSgt. Jonathan Rivera-Calderon, SSgt. Stanislav Barilov, Capt. Erik Haugen, TSgt. Mark Lockwood, Sgt. Nathan Williams, Sgt. Travis Hall, Maj. Michael Long, Capt. Anthony Montoya, 1st Lt. Rachel Simmons, SSgt. Caroline Domenech, and Sgt. Jose Aponte. The members of the Alaska Army and Air National Guard were recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO MISSILE AND BASE DEFENDERS OF THE YEAR Mr. President, every week I have been coming down to the Senate floor to honor an individual who is serving in my great State of Alaska, who is helping to make our State, his or her local community, or even our country a better place. We call these individuals our Alaskan of the Week. Alaska carries a mystique. We all know that. I am a little biased, but it does, rightfully so. It is a beautiful State. We all think it is the most beautiful State in the world. I encourage everybody who is watching from the Gallery or on TV to make sure they take at least one trip to Alaska sometime in their life. You will love it. It will be the trip of a lifetime. But Alaska is much more than just a beautiful State. It is actually a State that is critically important to America--critically important to our country. We have abundant natural resources: fish, metals, minerals, and oil and gas. They are resources that help feed our country, help build our country, and help power our country. Further, given today's threats, we are also the most strategically located State in the country. In fact, General Billy Mitchell, father of the Air Force, said in testimony to the Congress in the 1930s that Alaska was ``the most important strategic place in the world,'' which could control Asia, North America, and Europe. He said that whoever controls Alaska controls the world. In Alaska, we are the hub of combat airpower for the Asia-Pacific and the rest of the world. We are also a vital expeditionary platform, with some of the Army's best trained troops, who can deploy anywhere in the world on a moment's notice. Importantly, we are the cornerstone of our country's missile defense system. What makes this military triad truly exceptional is the Arctic-tough women and men in uniform supporting each of these pillars of America's military might in Alaska, who work day and night to ensure that our country is safe. Following Armed Forces Day a few days ago, where we honor all of those who currently serve in the military--and we are all going to be celebrating in a few days Memorial Day to honor those who gave their lives serving our country--I recognize a group of proud Alaskans who help protect our country. These individuals were recently awarded the 2017 Alaska Missile Defender of the Year award from the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance. Today, they are our Alaskans of the Week. These are National Guard service members from the Alaska Army and Air National Guard who have demonstrated leadership, excellence, and selfless commitment in their operation of the U.S. Ground-based Midcourse Defense system, at Fort Greely, and the Early Warning Radar system at Clear Air Force Station in Alaska, over the past year. Essentially, these are the men and women who keep our country safe with America's most sophisticated missile defense system. So I would like to read their names on the Senate floor. Base defenders of the year from the 213th Space Warning Squadron at Clear Air Force Station: SSgt Jonathan Rivera-Calderon and SSgt Stanislav Barilov. Missile defenders of the year from the 213th Space Warning Squadron at Clear Air Force Station: Capt. Erik Haugen and TSgt Mark Lockwood. Base defenders of the year from Fort Greely: SGT Nathan Williams and SGT Travis Hall. Best crew winners from the 49th Missile Defense Battalion, Delta Crew: MAJ Michael Long, CPT Anthony Montoya, 1LT Rachel Simmons, SSG Caroline Domenech, and SGT Jose Aponte. These Alaskan missile defenders continue to stand ready and excel as they protect our country and our citizens from an increasingly diverse set of national security threats. They are just a few of the 300 men and women missile defenders in interior Alaska who, every day, protect the entire United States. They like to call themselves the ``300 protecting the 300 million.'' I think of them as modern-day Spartans, the 300 Spartans who fought alongside King Leonidas to protect Greece in 480 BC. That is who they are, modern-day Spartans. The mission of these men and women is to protect the entire country from a rogue missile threat--whether from North Korea, Iran, or another country--that could hit any city in America. This is what they do 365 days a year, 24/7. They are on call on Christmas, New Year's, and Super Bowl Sunday. They are tough, well-trained, and they are committed patriots of America. We face a dizzying array of threats across the globe. But the one that keeps not only me but many Members of the Senate and our military up at night right now is the threat from North Korea. There is no doubt that North Korea and the leader of that country are intent on obtaining and nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile that can range our entire country. Recent unclassified briefings on this issue have said it is no longer a matter of if but when North Korea is going to have this capability. To protect us from this impending threat, this advancing threat, a number of us introduced a bill this past week to enhance our missile defense system across the country. While Alaska's missile defenders currently keep us safe, like many in our military they need more training and better technology so these brave men and women can do their job and continue to keep America safe in the future. Leading up to Memorial Day, I want to make sure to thank all who have served and continue to serve our Nation in uniform. I especially honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice, and, of course, their families. I also want to make sure I recognize Alaska's missile defenders. While millions of Americans will be outside this weekend, having a barbecue and celebrating Memorial Day, every American in this country can rest assured that these brave missile defenders in Alaska, men and women like the Spartans of old, stand watch to defend our freedoms. They are doing it today and they will do it on Memorial Day, just like they do every day of the year. That is why all of them, in my view, merit the award of Alaskans of the Week. # # #
05.26.2017	05.26.17 Sullivan Applauds Recent U.S. Navy FONOP in the South China Sea WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding the U.S. Navy’s recent freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) in the South China Sea – near Mischief Reef. "I applaud Secretary of Defense Mattis, PACOM Commander Admiral Harris and the men and women of the USS Dewey for their recent freedom of navigation operation in the South China Sea near Mischief Reef,” said Senator Sullivan. “We should continue to conduct such FONOPs in this critically important area of the world on a regular basis with our allies – and fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows. China has no recognized international legal claim to this reef – or numerous others it has militarized – in the South China Sea." Senator Sullivan has been a vocal critic of China’s militarization of the South China Sea. In July 2016, Senator Sullivan delivered the keynote address at the Center for Strategic and International Study’s 6th Annual South China Sea Conference, where he highlighted the need for the U.S. to strengthen economic ties and military partnerships with its regional partners and to regularly navigate the disputed areas of the South China Sea to preserve the freedom of navigation in international waters – including areas like Mischief Reef. ###
05.25.2017	05.25.17 General Milley Warns: War in Korea Would be “Tragic on an Unbelievable Scale” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, pressed Chief of Staff of the Army General Mark Milley in a hearing today on the details of the United States’ policy toward North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs and the potentially severe consequences of North Korea gaining a nuclear intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the continental United States. Answering a question from Senator Sullivan about U.S. policy, General Milley stated, “…the current United States government’s policy is to prevent North Korea from fielding an ICBM with a nuclear weapon to strike the continental United States.” Answering an additional question from Senator Sullivan about the capability of U.S. forces to “dominate the battlefield” against North Korea if the U.S. was forced to militarily enforce this policy, General Milley agreed, saying, “Absolutely yes. [U.S. military forces and Republican of Korea forces] would dominate the battlefield. North Korea would not succeed and North Korea would lose.” Senator Sullivan and General Milley went on to discuss what a conflict might look like on the Korean Peninsula. Below is a transcript of this exchange during the hearing. Senator Sullivan: “Can you describe what a war with North Korea would look like. Would it be similar to what we’ve seen over the past 15 years in Iraq and Afghanistan?” General Milley: “No, it would not look anything like the war in Iraq and Afghanistan.” Senator Sullivan: “What would [a war with North Korea] look like?” General Milley: “…If there was a full-blown war on the Korean Peninsula—just as Secretary of Defense Mattis said the other day—it would be tragic on an unbelievable scale. The levels of violence would be immense, the likes of which the world hasn’t seen since the Second World War. It would be huge, and there would be huge amounts of casualties on both sides. It would be horrific.” Earlier this week, Senator Sullivan introduced the Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act, which would bolster the nation’s missile defense system, increase testing, acquire more interceptors, and accelerate the development of new technologies needed to keep U.S. defenses ahead of the North Korean threat. Improving U.S homeland missile defense capability will provide American leaders with additional time and decision space during any potential conflict with North Korea, and protect American citizens from this looming threat. # # #
05.24.2017	05.24.17 Sullivan Helps Move VA Accountability Bill Out of Committee WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, thanked his colleagues for voting to advance S. 1094, the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, legislation which he cosponsored, out of committee. “Two of my primary goals on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee have been ensuring veterans receive the care they have earned, and working to restore their trust in the VA. In my numerous conversations with Secretary Shulkin, we have agreed that requiring greater accountability from VA employees is absolutely essential to achieving these goals,” said Senator Sullivan. “This legislation sets a more reasonable bar for the dismissal or demotion of VA employees that are failing our veterans, and gives the Secretary the tools and flexibility needed to effectively carry out changes that will improve the care our veterans receive. This legislation is long overdue and necessary to begin transforming the culture at the VA. We can’t restore veterans’ trust in the VA overnight, but this bill is a big step in the right direction.” The legislation: Increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. Includes safeguards for whistleblowers against retaliation, as well as greater training for VA supervisors on effective management and the rights of whistleblowers. Requires the VA to report to Congress on employee morale, and update members on the effectiveness of the new accountability measures granted to the VA. In addition to support from Secretary Shulkin, S. 1094 has been endorsed by a number of veterans service organizations, including the American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Reserve Officers Association, AMVETS, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, and Concerned Veterans for America. The legislation now heads to the Senate floor for consideration. # # #
05.24.2017	05.24.17 Sullivan, Heitkamp, Harris Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Boost Federal Employment Opportunities for Vets Legislation Would Strengthen Advocacy for Veterans across 24 Federal Agencies, including USDA and HHS, Where Only 12% and 7% of Workers Are Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) today introduced the bipartisan Empowering Federal Employment for Veterans Act to make sure federal agencies do everything they can to connect veterans with jobs that fit their skillsets in the federal government. When veterans transition to civilian life, they have a variety of skills and talents from serving in the armed forces—and those skills are major assets in civilian jobs as well. The Empowering Federal Employment for Veterans Act would require large federal agencies to have full-time advocates for veterans’ employment, and would promote career development for veterans within agencies. Although veterans made up 31 percent of the federal workforce overall in 2015, only 12 percent of workers at the U.S. Department of Agriculture and 7 percent of workers at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services were veterans, according to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Those statistics reinforce that more progress can be made at a variety of federal agencies with the help of this legislation. “Veterans and members of our military pick up many incredible skill sets during their service in the Armed Forces,” said Sullivan. “Unfortunately, upon returning home and transitioning back into civilian life, their valuable skills sometimes go untapped or unrecognized by prospective employers. As a Senate co-chair of the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus, I remain committed to working with veteran service organizations, federal agencies and private sector employers to help our veterans secure jobs and succeed at them. I am pleased to have worked with Senator Heitkamp on this bipartisan legislation which aims to do just that.” “By connecting veterans with federal jobs that match their skills, our bipartisan bill can improve the long-term wellbeing of veterans—while also making the federal government work better,” said Heitkamp. “When veterans take off the uniform, they bring with them leadership skills, a strong work ethic, and a host of specialized skills and knowledge. Those skills can be put to great use in any number of jobs—and roles at federal agencies should be no exception. Our bill would make sure we’re doing everything we can to connect veterans with jobs that match their unique abilities and career goals.” “California’s veterans and their families have made immeasurable contributions to America’s national security and sacrifices for our country,” said Harris. “It is our duty to ensure they can build and maintain a sustainable future when transitioning out of military service. This legislation would strengthen the federal government’s role to advocate for veterans’ employment and provide opportunities for them in federal agencies. I am proud to work with my colleagues to enhance employment opportunities for veterans.” The legislation would strengthen the level of advocacy for veterans’ employment at federal agencies by requiring Veterans Employment Program Offices with full-time staff and budgets at 24 of the largest federal departments and agencies. It would also make permanent the interagency Council on Veterans Employment—co-chaired by the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with the OPM Director as vice chair—to promote coordination among veterans employment offices across agencies. It would also require OPM to facilitate resource and information sharing among various agencies’ Veterans Employment Program Offices. To promote career development for veterans, the legislation would expand veterans counseling and training programs to agencies beyond the U.S. Departments of Defense, Labor, Veterans Affairs, and Homeland Security. It would also expand the Defense Department’s SkillsBridge program, which provides internships for transitioning servicemembers during their last six months of service, to include opportunities to intern at agencies across the federal government. Click here to read a summary of the bill. ###
05.23.2017	05.23.17 Sullivan Responds to White House Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today on the White House’s proposed fiscal year 2018 budget request: “As I have said before, it’s important to remember that Congress holds the power of the purse, and will ultimately fund the federal government. “From my initial review, I see some positive elements in today’s budget request from the Trump administration, such as opening the non-wilderness 1002 area for responsible resource development, and a continued increase in funding for combatting our nation’s opioid and heroin epidemic – something that I’ve strongly advocated for. “With regard to defense spending, while the President’s budget proposal is an improvement and an increase over the severely-depressed Obama-era defense budgets, and includes $170 million of military construction for Alaska, I remain concerned that – in an increasingly dangerous world – this budget proposal does not provide enough resources to really begin rebuilding our military. “I am strongly opposed to specific reductions in this budget that disproportionately target rural economies across our country, including in Alaska – cutting funds for Essential Air Service, water and wastewater infrastructure, low-income heating assistance, and critical education programs. “In the months ahead, I’ll be working with the other members of the Alaska Delegation to fight for programs and funding that are vital for Alaska and will help grow our economy.” ###
05.22.2017	05.22.17 Senators Introduce Bill to Bolster Homeland Missile Defense WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Gary Peters (D-MI), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) in introducing the Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act of 2017. The bill – a direct response to continued aggression from North Korea – seeks to strengthen and improve the reliability, capability, and capacity of U.S. homeland missile defense. “Our nation’s missile defense is a critical insurance policy that protects Americans and our allies from a nuclear catastrophe,” said Senator Sullivan. “Top military leaders have been sounding the alarm, saying it is only a matter of ‘when, not if,’ Kim Jong-un will get the capability to range cities in the continental United States with a nuclear inter-continental ballistic missile (ICBM). The Advancing America’s Missile Defense Act of 2017 heeds that warning and seeks to advance our nation’s ability to outpace the current threats. I thank my colleagues on both sides of aisle for coming together to address this critical national security issue.” “This bill will help improve our ability to defend Hawai‘i, Alaska, and the U.S. mainland against a North Korean ballistic missile threat,” said Senator Schatz. “While we take this extra step to strengthen our defense capacities, we must continue to explore every diplomatic avenue to hold North Korea to its international commitments and stop its unlawful pursuit of a nuclear-capable ballistic missile.” “The success of our modern ground- and sea-based missile defenses underscore the moral clarity and prescient outlook Ronald Reagan exhibited in the 1980’s in his mission to protect our citizens from ballistic missile threats,” Senator Cruz said. “While our adversaries are increasingly focused on ballistic missile capabilities, we must ensure our missile defense architecture outpaces their developing threats. This bill is a statement of rededication to Reagan’s vision, particularly its attention to space-based sensors, and I hope all my colleagues will come together to invest in the security of the American people.” “The United States faces an evolving number of security threats - from North Korea's provocative missile tests designed to inflame global tensions, to Iran’s ballistic missile tests in defiance of a UN Security Council resolution,” said Senator Peters. “It is critical that America take proactive steps to bolster our missile defense systems so we are prepared in the event of a missile attack directed at our homeland.” "If we can’t make Kim Jong-un listen to reason, then we should make his arsenal obsolete,” said Senator Cotton. “In this increasingly dangerous world, America needs a missile-defense system that’s second to none, and this legislation will keep our country ahead of the pack." “I am proud to co-sponsor this bill because America’s strength and security are dependent on us staying one step ahead of those who wish us harm, said Senator Manchin. “In a bipartisan way, the Senate is heeding the call of our military leaders by giving them the technology and weapons that they need to keep America and her allies safe from a ballistic missile threat.” “The North Korean regime continues to be a clear and present danger to America and the world with its unwavering development of nuclear capable intercontinental ballistic missiles,” said Senator Rubio. “It is our duty to do everything we can to ensure we are prepared in the event of a nuclear threat. That is why I am proud to support the Advancing America's Missile Defense Act of 2017, legislation that would advance our defense system to keep our homeland safe.” “Keeping Americans safe is absolutely essential, and the Advancing American Missile Defense Act will help us do exactly that,” Senator Capito said. “When it comes to North Korea, the time for smart, responsible action is now, and this legislation takes necessary steps to develop and advance our missile defense infrastructure and technology. This bill will help us properly prepare and equip professionals with the tools they need to counter the very real threat North Korea poses. I am proud to join my colleagues to support this measure that will help make America a safer place.” BACKGROUND: Integrated Missile Defense: Promotes an integrated, layered ballistic missile defense system incorporating Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD), Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, Aegis Ashore, and Patriot Air and Missile Defense Systems. Authorizes Additional Interceptors: Authorizes an additional 28 Ground-Based Interceptors (GBIs). Speeds Tech Development: Accelerates the development and deployment of advanced interceptor technologies (Redesigned Kill Vehicle; Multi-object Kill Vehicle MOKV; New, More Flexible and Capable Booster). Space-based Sensors: Accelerates the development and deployment of a space-based sensor layer. East Coast/Midwest Site: Accelerates the completion of the EIS for an interceptor site on the East Coast and in the Midwest of the U.S. Increases Testing: Authorizes additional missile defense testing and expresses the need to change current test culture at the Missile Defense Agency. Requires DoD Report: Mandates report for up to 100 GBIs distributed across the U.S. and asks for specifics on their optimal locations and the possibility of transportable GBIs. # # #
05.19.2017	05.19.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Michael Carson WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor in recognition of Michael Carson, of Palmer, an avid community volunteer and the co-founder of MYHouse, a resource center for homeless youth in the Mat-Su Valley. Carson was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO MICHAEL CARSON Mr. President, every week I have been coming to the Senate floor to talk about someone in my great State of Alaska who makes Alaska a better place for all of us--for the community, for everybody living there. I call this person our Alaskan of the Week. To be honest, it is one of the most fulfilling things I get to do as a Senator, recognizing back home and across the country special people in my State. There is no doubt that many here in the Chamber and the people who are watching from home have seen pictures and television shows about Alaska. We are a little biased--I know one of our pages is an Alaskan--that we have the most beautiful State, not only in the country but in the world. So we want to encourage everybody watching to come visit Alaska. It will be the trip of a lifetime, absolutely guaranteed. It is truly the people of Alaska who make our State so special, people with big hearts who band together to solve challenges. Like all places, we have challenges. This week I would like to recognize Michael Carson for his work to help people in Alaska who are struggling with addiction. We know this is a problem that is impacting every single State in our great Nation. Michael lives in Palmer, AK, a picturesque town about 45 miles from Anchorage in Alaska's vast Matanuska-Susitna Valley--what we just call the Valley or the Mat-Su. It is about the size of West Virginia, so don't get me going on the size of Alaska. It will embarrass most of my--actually all of my colleagues here, unfortunately for them. Palmer is flanked by the rolling Talkeetna Mountains to the north and the saw-toothed Chugach Mountains to the south. It is a close-knit community where most people know each other. Many people in Palmer and the Mat-Su across the State know Michael Carson's name. Like many Alaskans, Michael's story is one full of adventure. Originally from California, he received his undergraduate in early childhood development from the University of Texas. After hitchhiking through Africa and spending a summer in Mexico, he took a job teaching in Nome, AK, in 1974. A few years later, he moved to the Mat-Su to teach and taught our students for many years. He retired from teaching, but his yearning to help people, particularly our youth, did not leave him. He got a job at Covenant House in Anchorage, which is a homeless youth shelter. It is a wonderful place, by the way. I am a little biased on this one; my wife Julie happens to work at Covenant House. Michael's shift started at 8 p.m. and ended at 8 a.m. That is what he was doing at Covenant House. He spent those hours walking through the city, reaching out to kids on the streets, sharing his own story, and inspiring our youth because his story also involves recovery. It is a privilege to say here on the Senate floor that Mike has been sober for 29 years. Eventually realizing that kids in the Mat-Su Valley also needed a place to go when they were in trouble and needed help, Michael and another incredible constituent of mine, Michelle Overstreet, founded MYHouse in Palmer, a place that provides services like job assistance, access to healthcare, clothing, food, and showers for homeless youth. Michael still sits on the board, still remains a champion for all youth, particularly those in recovery and the homeless or disadvantaged. He leads recovery groups on-site weekly, as well as meetings with clients who are struggling. He has also volunteered to host recovery groups at the Mat-Su youth detention facility for the past 13 years. Michael has helped many young people get sober and stay sober. In Michelle Overstreet's words, it is not uncommon for youth to come into the drop-in center, homeless and just out of juvenile detention, and ask specifically for Michael, to come in and say that he helped them somewhere along their journey through life to sobriety, just to come in and say: Thank you, Michael. Most of us know that our country is in the midst of an opioid crisis, one that has become an epidemic in many places across the country. In 2015, more people in America died from overdoses--over 52,000, and most were linked to opioids and heroin--than car crashes or gun violence. On Wednesday morning, Alaskans awoke to a disturbing headline in the Alaska Dispatch News: “Anchorage is seeing a dramatic surge in heroin overdoses.” Anchorage is the largest city in Alaska. It is my hometown. The article said that since May 1, there have been more than 2 overdoses a day in Anchorage--34 overdoses in just a little more than 2 weeks. Like almost every State in this great Nation of ours, Alaska is being hit hard by the opioid crisis, and we are trying to focus as much attention as we can in a bipartisan fashion on addressing this crisis, whether in Alaska, Kentucky, New Hampshire, Indiana, or Vermont. We need people like Michael. Every State does. He started the Mat-Su grassroots opioid task force and continues to chair that effort to this day. He knows too well how the abuse of opioids, other drugs, and alcohol robs our citizens--but particularly our youth--of their lives, promise, and future. He also understands how very important it is to have resources for those who need the support and recovery. Those resources come in many forms. We have been trying in the Congress in the last year, year and a half, to bring significant resources to our State and local communities. We are doing that. State support is also important across the country. Perhaps most important is the community support and having people like Michael on the frontlines who understand that addiction is not a moral failure and that people who are suffering need help. They need help, not moral judgments from us. Because of Michael's involvement and the involvement of so many others in Alaska and particularly in the Mat-Su, there are places for people who are suffering to call and get help. There are places to go and heal and places where our youth can have leaders who listen to them, like Michael. Michael says it is vital for his own recovery to continue to help people who are suffering from addiction. He calls it “survivor obligation.” I call it the work of angels. Michael, thanks for all you do, and congratulations on being our Alaskan of the week. # # #
05.19.2017	05.19.17 Sullivan, Van Hollen Launch Senate Foreign Service Caucus WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) today announced the formation of the Senate Foreign Service Caucus. The caucus will provide a bipartisan forum for members to discuss the challenges facing those who serve in the U.S. Foreign Service around the world, and collaborate and develop policy recommendations on how they can best support them and the U.S. diplomatic mission abroad. “When I first came to the Senate, I saw working groups and caucuses representing every branch of our Armed Services – but no such organized support for the men and women who serve our country abroad in the Foreign Service,” said Senator Sullivan. “They are posted to more than 270 embassies, consulates and other missions around the globe in often difficult and dangerous environments, and their contributions to the advancement of democracy, the rule of law and American security should be bolstered here in the Senate. I look forward to working with Senator Van Hollen on ways we can support this outstanding group of Americans abroad.” “As the son of a Foreign Service Officer, I know firsthand the immense impact our diplomats have on furthering U.S. interests and values abroad,” said Senator Van Hollen. “They serve as beacons of hope around the world, and play a vital role in keeping Americans safe from the many threats we face. The work of the Foreign Service is also critical in promoting our country’s core values – of democracy, human rights, liberty, opportunity, and equality. I’m pleased to partner with Senator Sullivan to work in a bipartisan way to support the patriotic Americans who serve our nation in the Foreign Service.” In remarks recently given at the State Department’s Foreign Affairs Day Memorial Plaque Ceremony on May 5, Secretary of State Tillerson lauded the Senate Foreign Service Caucus effort, stating: “It’s a fantastic initiative on [their] part, and one that I think will serve us well, it will serve all of you well, and gives us yet another voice on the Hill.” ###
05.18.2017	05.18.17 Commerce Committee Advances Coast Guard Authorization WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, today thanked his colleagues on the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee for advancing the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2017, legislation introduced by Senator Sullivan. “The men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard do an outstanding job protecting the homeland and responding to crises on a moment’s notice,” said Senator Sullivan. “I am honored to have the opportunity to lead this year’s Coast Guard Authorization, giving our Coast Guard the resources and training they need to complete the many diverse missions they are tasked with. The legislation also includes a number of provisions addressing the priorities and concerns of Alaskans, including relieving unnecessary burdens on fishermen and boat operators, exploring better ways to monitor illegal and unreported fishing, and advancing the Coast Guard’s ability to operate in the Arctic.” Specifically, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2017: Protects and provides for vital assets: Authorizing the Coast Guard to use multi-year contracts to procure three additional National Security Cutters. Expressing that the Coast Guard must position assets to ensure it is positioned to respond to any incidents given the national security and economic significance of the Arctic, and requires the Coast Guard, in consultation with the Department of Defense, to report to Congress on progress being made in implementing the service’s Arctic Strategy, and provide an assessment on the placement of assets and cutters in light of these strategic objectives. Ensuring regions continue to have Coast Guard coverage as vessels or aircraft are recapitalized. Including an amendment sponsored by Senator Cantwell (D-WA) and Senator Sullivan requiring the Coast Guard to deliver a plan on extending the life of the Polar Star, and authorizing funding to execute the plan. Requiring the examination of the feasibility of a Coast Guard ROTC program. Provides regulatory relief: Lessening the logbook requirements on charter fishing vessels, ferries, and certain passenger vessels by allowing the use of a wider variety of logbooks, including electronic records. Requiring a delay of the compliance deadline for the Alternative Safety Compliance Program by three years, should the Coast Guard change course and issue final rules. Reducing burdens on the cost of building new fishing vessels, and lessening regulatory burdens on fishermen and boaters. Enhancing the role of the Commercial Fishing Safety Advisory Committee, which provides relevant stakeholders with increased influence in regulatory matters affecting them. Permanently exempting fishing vessels from incidental discharge regulations. Protects Alaskan resources and stimulates the economy: Directing the Coast Guard to conduct persistent aircraft-based surveillance in monitoring illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Requiring the Coast Guard to have tested the capability of oil spill vessel response plans in Alaskan waters and report to Congress on these capabilities. Authorizing a land exchange to provide for permanent protection of a bird rookery, while providing potential economic development opportunities on Kodiak Island. Giving the Coast Guard more flexibility in choosing which shipyards it uses to conduct vessel alterations and repairs, in an effort to allow more work to stay in Alaska. The legislation also includes Senator Sullivan’s S. 171, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Amendments and Hydrographic Services Improvement Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2017, which reauthorizes funding to update and maintain the nation’s nautical charts with an emphasis on the Arctic and facilitates the construction of a viable homeport for the NOAA research vessel Fairweather in Ketchikan. The legislation, which now heads to the full Senate, authorizes increased funding to support the mission and needs of the U.S. Coast Guard through 2019. # # #
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Senate Commerce Committee Holds Hearing on Opioid Crisis WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today attended a hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee on the health and safety of athletes, including issues of opioid abuse by athletes. Among the witnesses was Dr. Jay Butler, Alaska’s chief medical officer, current president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, and a leader in the effort to combat Alaska’s opioid epidemic. “With front-page news today of a massive spike in heroin overdoses in the Anchorage area, Alaskans are rightly concerned about the progress being made against this persistent crisis affecting many of our communities and families,” said Senator Sullivan. “I want to thank Chairman Thune for agreeing to convene the full Commerce Committee on this major public health concern, Dr. Butler for bringing his expertise and Alaska’s experiences before the committee, and to the other panelists for sharing their perspectives and insights. Raising awareness and educating students, parents, coaches, and health care providers about the risks of prescription opioid abuse is one of the many fronts on which we need to combat this crisis.” In the hearing, Dr. Butler emphasized the need for an all-hands-on-deck approach, saying, “The effective response to this epidemic will be a team sport. It will involve coaches, parents, trainers, and the athletes themselves, as well as organizations, including professional, scholastic and amateur sports leagues, public health agencies, health care providers, third party payers, the criminal justice system, educators, businesses and lawmakers.” Witnesses and senators alike emphasized the importance of education and awareness, as many people – athletes and non-athletes – do not understand the risks associated with prescription opioids. “Talking to people in recovery I frequently hear, ‘No one told me and if I had had any idea how dangerous these drugs were, I never would have taken them,’” Dr. Butler said. Senator Sullivan concluded, “I’ll continue to work in the Senate to help states, local organizations and law enforcement get the resources they need to educate the public, effectively respond to overdoses, and prevent individuals from falling into the trap of addiction.” # # #
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Sullivan Commemorates Police Week at National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) visited the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial on Tuesday evening in honor of National Police Week. The name of fallen Fairbanks Police Sergeant Allen Brandt was added to the memorial this week, along with the names of 163 other officers killed in the line of duty in the past year. “I'm here tonight in Washington D.C. at the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. It’s a beautiful tribute to the men and women who serve in law enforcement and have given their lives for others throughout our country. It's an important day – a somber day. Sergeant Allen Brandt of the Fairbanks Police Department's name was added to the wall here. Many of his colleagues and importantly his wife, Natasha, and their children are all here in D.C. for this solemn ceremony. It's a powerful memorial. One element I like is this statue of a lion. Quoting Proverbs, it says here: ‘The wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are bold as a lion.’ It is always important to remember that our brave law enforcement first responders are on the front lines protecting us back home in Alaska twenty-four-seven. Let's make sure we keep all of them and their families in our prayers.” # # #
05.15.2017	05.15.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Sherry Bess WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke last week on the Senate floor in recognition of Sherry Bess, of Homer, who has spent nearly three decades caring for the community’s homeless and abandoned animals as manager of the Homer Animal Shelter. Bess was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO SHERRY BESS Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, every week I have been coming to the floor to recognize someone in my State who has made a difference, someone who has devoted time and energy to making my State a better place to live for others. We call these individuals our Alaskan of the Week. As I have said repeatedly, I believe my State is the most beautiful State in the country. We have visitors. We want to welcome more and more visitors. Come on up. I guarantee it will be the trip of a lifetime. When you go to Alaska, one town that nobody should miss is Homer, AK. It is surrounded by the glistening waters of Kachemak Bay, jagged mountains, glaciers, and snowcapped volcanoes. Some people call it the Halibut Fishing Capital of the World. Others call it the Cosmic Hamlet by the Sea. Some, like me, call it a slice of Heaven. I was there a few weeks ago holding a community meeting. I thanked them then, and I want to thank them all today for the very warm welcome I received. I also wish to thank Homer for the very warm welcome they gave to Navy destroyer USS Hopper, which spent a few days in Homer before participating in a joint naval exercise with the Army in the Gulf of Alaska. The 300-member crew of the USS Hopper was greeted by hundreds of cheering, flag-waving Homer residents. The commander of the Hopper, J.D. Gainey, wrote that in his 24 years of naval service, “I have never seen as much patriotism as we enjoyed in Homer.” Thank you, Homer, from all of us. Alaskans love Homer. They see it for the landscape but also for the people. It is a tight-knit community. They might not always agree with one another, particularly with regard to politics, but they look out for each other. Like any community with a heart, they look out for their animals. This week I want to recognize a special person as our Alaskan of the week, Sherry Bess, who spent nearly 30 years--three decades--taking care of Homer's animals as the manager of the Homer Animal Shelter. In 1989, when Sherry began to volunteer at the pet shelter in Homer, there was one building, no phone, and only four cages to hold cats. “It was basically a shack,” she said. The snow would come in through the dog door. The drains in the water bowls would freeze. Sherry's hands and feet were always cold, and it was infested with mice. There was no bathroom. Oftentimes, when the shelter was too busy and when the animals needed extra care, Sherry would take them to her home, where she would care for them. Sherry and a handful of residents cared for over 1,200 animals each year in that little shelter. Along the way, she gathered both happy stories and heartbreaking stories about the animals she found that were abused and the ones she found homes for. In fact, one of the members of my team in Alaska took a puppy that had been abandoned in a crate in the woods near Homer, took him home, fed him, and Mick Fleagle on my staff now has a dog. His dog Sookie, 8 years old, has the full reign of the house. He is loved. Thanks to Sherry, stories like that abound throughout Homer. For 26 years, she has worked night and day, 7 days a week, for the pets in that community. She recently stepped down from that job. She is taking care of her own pets, lots of them--her family she calls them--but she will always be known to so many people in Homer for what she has done for their pets and their animals. “Over the years, those animals that came to me,” she said, “...unwanted and sad and depressed, and then you help them and you love them and they go to a home and they're loved. That's the most rewarding thing about what I did.” Sherry said over the years she has noticed that the residents of Homer and throughout the country have been kinder to their pets. Part of that is the result of what Sherry and others like her across the country do to educate the public on taking care of animals through vaccinations, neutering. Some of it is more and more because people like Sherry are considering pets as their families. So I want to thank Sherry, as our Alaskan of the Week, for all she has done and for all she has done for pets in our great State. Great job. # # #
05.10.2017	05.10.17 Sullivan, Murkowski to Attend Arctic Council Ministerial Meeting in Fairbanks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski released the following statement in advance of traveling to Fairbanks to attend the 10th Arctic Council Ministerial Meeting, attended by foreign ministers of the eight Arctic nations, to celebrate the success of the U.S. Chairmanship of the Arctic Council and transfer the chairmanship to Finland. “All eyes will be on Fairbanks this week as it hosts dignitaries from not only the eight Arctic nations, but from around the world for the 10th Arctic Council Ministerial,” said Senator Sullivan. “I want to thank Secretary of State Rex Tillerson for making it clear that the Arctic is a priority for him and the new administration by traveling to Alaska to Chair this important meeting. This week will serve as a great opportunity to showcase the Golden Heart City of Fairbanks. It will also bring the world’s attention to the strong and generous people who live in the Arctic, whose culture and way of life is a priority in any discussion on the future of the Arctic.” “The week will be an opportunity to speak with leaders from within Alaska and from around the globe about the importance of the Arctic. I look forward to discussing a variety of topics such as broadband, economic development, science and research, and community resilience. This is a significant opportunity for Alaskans and people of the Arctic to showcase our ways of life, priorities, and perspectives to people from all over the world,” said Senator Murkowski. “I thank the community of Fairbanks for its advance planning and hospitality this week, truly living up to the name of Golden Heart City.” Background: Senator Murkowski called for an Alaskan community to host the 2017 Arctic Council Ministerial Meeting and secured report language in the December 2015 omnibus bill directing the Secretary of State to ensure that such meeting is held as close to the United States Arctic region as possible and to consult with Congress on the selection of an appropriate location. # # #
05.10.2017	05.10.17 Sullivan Responds to Firing of FBI Director Comey WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement regarding the firing of FBI Director James Comey. “President Trump has the authority to choose the director of the FBI whom he believes will best lead the agency. The timing of the president’s firing of Director Comey raises questions that will need to be answered by the administration. I am hopeful that the administration will put forward an independent and strong leader of the FBI. Once the Senate receives the nomination, I look forward to a rigorous, fair and timely confirmation process. “During this transition phase, we need to continue the comprehensive investigations being conducted by both the FBI and the Senate Intelligence Committee into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election, and the possible illegal unmasking of private citizens by federal officials. These investigations need to be free of political interference. “The rule of law is the foundation of our Democracy. It should apply equally to all, including the White House, the FBI, the IRS and the Justice Department. Unfortunately, it has been eroded over the past several years. We, both Democrats and Republicans, need to work on reestablishing and safeguarding this critically important American ideal.” # # #
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Sullivan Cosponsors Bipartisan Legislation to Prevent Overmedication Among Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has signed on as a co-sponsor of the Veterans Overmedication Prevention Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) that would direct the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to conduct an independent expert study on the deaths of all veterans being treated at the VA who died by suicide or from a drug overdose in the last five years. “As an officer in the Marine Corps Reserve, I have personally witnessed the struggles – at times tragic – that some of our servicemen and women undergo as they search for care,” said Senator Sullivan. “It is our obligation to pursue all of the causes and factors that contribute to veteran suicide, and bring it to an end. We need to ensure that the VA is armed with the necessary information to prevent these tragedies.” “The tragedy of 20 veterans a day dying from suicide is a national scandal,” said Senator McCain. “Combatting this epidemic will require the best research and understanding about the key causes of veteran suicide, including whether overmedication of drugs, such as opioid painkillers, is a contributing factor in suicide-related deaths. This legislation would authorize an independent review of veterans who died of suicide or a drug overdose over the last five years to ensure doctors develop safe and effective treatment plans for their veteran patients. We have a long way to go to eradicate veteran suicide, but this legislation builds on important efforts to end the tragedy that continues to claim far too many lives far too soon.” “I have worked across party lines to hold the VA accountable because too often our veterans are getting hooked on drugs instead of the care they need. I'm proud to continue that work by joining this bipartisan effort led by Senator McCain to confront the overmedication of veterans and prevent suicide deaths,” said Senator Baldwin. “Our veterans and their families deserve solutions to the challenges they face and this bipartisan legislation can help improve and save the lives of those that have served and sacrificed for our country.” The legislation is also co-sponsored by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA), and is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Vietnam Veterans of America, AMVETS, and the National Board for Certified Counselors. Background This review would ensure that the VA has accurate information about the relationship between veteran suicides and prescription medication. Additionally, this legislation would direct the VA to perform a more comprehensive review of its behavioral health workforce with a focus on mental health counselors in an effort to address workforce shortages. These professionals will increase access to services and help reduce the incidence of suicide. An average of 20 veterans a day die from suicide, accounting for nearly a quarter of all deaths from suicide among U.S. adults. Since 2001, the rate of veteran suicide has increased by 32 percent. After controlling for age and gender, this makes the risk of suicide 21 percent higher for veterans than the average U.S. adult. Since 2001, there has been a 259 percent increase in narcotics prescriptions. In the largest veteran populations, veterans die from accidental narcotic overdose at a 33 percent higher rate than the rest of the population. Veterans can “double dip” on prescription drugs by filling at the VA and in the community. Although the VA has established State Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs, there is no real enforcement. The legislation would require a National Academies of Science study to review: The total number of veterans who died by suicide in the last five years; The total number of veterans who were involved in a violent, suicidal or accidental death; The prevalence of medications or illegal substances in the system of each veteran who died; The number of instances in which the veteran was concurrently on multiple medications prescribed by VA physicians or non-VA physicians; The percentage of veterans who are receiving non-medication first-line treatment (such as cognitive behavioral therapy) as treatment and its effectiveness compared with other treatments; An analysis, by state, of programs of the VA that collaborate with state Medicaid agencies, including an analysis of the sharing of prescription and behavioral health data for veterans; and Other aspects of care and recommendations to improve the safety and well-being of veterans. ###
05.08.2017	05.08.17 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Heather Wilson as Secretary of the Air Force WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm President Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Air Force, Dr. Heather Wilson. “As evidenced by the recent Russian long-range aviation flights, the U.S. Air Force is a vital component of the military in Alaska. With that in mind, I met both publicly and privately with Dr. Wilson during her nomination process. We discussed several issues that are important to Alaska, and during the course of our conversations, I received several commitments from Secretary Wilson that the U.S. Air Force would keep the current beddown timeline at Eielson, would give Alaska a hard look for the future KC-46 basing, and would continue to modernize Alaska’s Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex. “I look forward to welcoming Secretary Wilson to Alaska so she can see Alaska’s strategic location, its world-class training, and all of the amazing missions that Alaskan airmen – active duty, Guard, and Reserve – do each and every day.” ###
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Sullivan Reacts to Latest U.S. Air Force Intercept of Russian Aircraft WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the Wednesday evening intercept of Russian bombers and fighter aircraft by U.S. Air Force F-22 stealth fighters within the Alaskan Air Defense Identification Zone. “The airmen of the U.S. Air Force’s 3rd Wing and the Alaska National Guard continue to demonstrate their professionalism in response to the most recent Russian incursion into the U.S. Air Defense Zone near Chariot, Alaska. As Russia continues to fly bombers – and for the first time, Su-35 fighter aircraft – off the coast of Alaska, I am proud to know that U.S. Air Force F-22s, AWACS, KC-135 tankers, and many Alaska Guardsmen stand ready to immediately defend the great State of Alaska and America's sovereignty.” # # #
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Sullivan Votes for Government Funding Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after voting in support of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017, which funds the government through September 30, 2017. “While I continue to believe that the process by which we fund the government is fundamentally flawed, the bill we passed today will provide the necessary funding to keep the government open through the end of the fiscal year – which gives agencies greater fiscal certainty. After years of cuts to our military – which I have repeatedly fought against – we voted to significantly increase spending on our men and women in the U.S. military to address the growing national security threats throughout the world, while not having to simultaneously increase funding for domestic agencies like the EPA or the IRS. “The bill also funds many agencies and programs vital to our state, including NOAA, the Coast Guard’s Arctic priorities, the Essential Air Service program, infrastructure investments across the state, and community health centers – all of which I’ve been pressing for during my tenure in the U.S. Senate. “I’m also pleased that the bill provides more than a billion dollars to address the opioid and heroin epidemic facing our nation – which is an issue I have been very focused on. This is a good start, but we need to do much more to turn the tide. “Finally, I want to thank Senator Lisa Murkowski, Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, for her hard work to ensure that the Alaska Mental Health Trust Land Exchange Act was included in the bill, in addition to funding for other Alaska priorities.” ###
04.28.2017	04.28.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskans of the Week: Madison Englund and Jennifer Troutman WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke this week on the Senate floor in recognition of Madison Englund, of Fairbanks, and Jennifer Troutman, of Anchorage, two Alaskan athletes who won medals at the 2017 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Austria. Englund and Troutman were recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO MADISON ENGLUND AND JENNIFER TROUTMAN Mr. President, every week I have been coming down to the floor for months now to recognize someone in my State who has made a difference, someone who has devoted time and energy to making Alaska a better place to live for the community and for others. We call these individuals our Alaskan of the week. It covers Alaskans from all over the State. As I have said repeatedly in every one of my “Alaskan of the Week” speeches, I believe Alaska is the most beautiful State in the country--I would argue, in the world. I urge everybody in the room--the pages, the Presiding Officer, and the folks watching on TV--to come see for yourself. It will be a trip of a lifetime, I guarantee it. But it is the people who truly make Alaska unique, people who are helping each other, people who face tough odds and conquer them, strong-willed, warm-hearted, tenacious people who have carved generous lives and sometimes in very extreme conditions. Today, our Alaskan of the week is going to be a twofer. We are going to do two today. So I would like to recognize two Alaskans, Madison Englund of Fairbanks and Jennifer Troutman of Anchorage, as our Alaskans of the week. These are two special athletes who have made all of us in Alaska very proud. Last month, Madison and Jennifer returned to Alaska with a slew of medals from the 2017 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Austria. First, these young women did everything in their power, including training their hearts out, to qualify for these world Olympic games, and when they got there, they excelled. Madison won a Gold Medal in the advanced super-G snowboard race and added a Silver Medal in the advanced giant slalom. Jennifer claimed a Silver Medal in Monday's advanced super-G ski race, as well. Jennifer has been an athlete with Special Olympics for 11 years. During her freshman year of high school, she participated in bowling, track and field, and floor hockey through the Partners Club. During her junior year, she found a passion for skiing and has been excelling on the slopes ever since, as you can see from these incredible medals from the Special Olympics. She also works at Petco during her free time. Madison has been part of Special Olympics for 7 years. Aside from sports, she enjoys other hobbies, to include playing the cello, camping, fishing, and caring for animals. She is proud of her dogs, and she has three of them. She also loves to make jewelry. She said it is her favorite hobby. In addition to all this, she has also won the Good Citizens Award from the Daughters of the American Revolution. Since its founding nearly 50 years ago and subsequent growth to all corners of the globe, the Special Olympics has brought hope and joy and self-esteem to countless children and adults with intellectual disabilities and, of course, to their families and friends and their supporters like me. Special Olympics has shown what can happen when a group of people get together and sweat it out and work hard in the name of fair competition, camaraderie, and perseverance. These Special Olympians--all Special Olympians, really--make us in Alaska proud. I want to thank Jim Balamaci, who has been the Special Olympics Alaska head for many years, and his whole team for giving so many Alaskans the opportunity to get out to the field or the slopes and experience the fulfillment of sports for all. In Alaska, we love our Special Olympics athletes. They are an inspiration to all of us, whether it is when they are competing or even participating in the Polar Plunge in the icy waters of Alaska every winter to raise money for Special Olympics. Congratulations again to Jennifer and Madison on your hard work and incredible achievements and representing Alaska so well. Congratulations. You have earned it, being our Alaskans of the week. # # #
04.28.2017	04.28.17 Alaska Delegation Commends Executive Order on Offshore Energy Development Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today joined President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke for the signing ceremony of an Executive Order to implement an America-First Offshore Energy Strategy. The order lifts leasing withdrawals imposed on Alaska’s Arctic, directs the Department of the Interior to conduct a review of the areas available for leasing, and directs a review of certain regulations governing offshore development. “When President Trump took office, he promised to listen to the people and to return power to them, and today he and Secretary Zinke delivered for Alaskans,” Murkowski said. “After the last administration spent eight years systematically closing off access to the Arctic, this executive order puts us back on track to explore and ultimately produce the prolific resources in that region. Alaskans broadly support offshore development in the Arctic. And I strongly believe that over time, today’s order will provide substantial benefits by putting our state on a better path to create jobs, generate new revenues, refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, and strengthen our leadership in the Arctic.” “Last December, Alaskans were outraged when President Obama unilaterally placed nearly the entire Arctic Ocean off-limits to energy development,” Sullivan said. “Today, President Trump undertook the first steps to right this wrong for Alaskans and for our country. Production is increasing in Alaska, and there are new oil finds throughout the state. Alaska is on the brink of leading our country into a new energy renaissance. With a White House working with Congress—and acting as a partner with Alaska—responsible production of our energy resources will strengthen our national security, provide good jobs for thousands of Alaskans, and help grow the economies of our state and our country.” “Today is an important moment for Alaska’s future,” Young said. “It represents a significant reversal of the previous administration’s failed domestic energy policy; one that focused on locking away our resources, limiting new opportunities and creating insurmountable roadblocks at every turn. Along with our united congressional delegation, I’ve fought back to ensure Alaska’s energy potential remains on the table. As a resources oriented state, this is critical. I commend President Trump for recognizing the importance of development in the Arctic OCS and look forward to building a regulatory climate that truly gives exploration a chance to succeed.” Among the highlights of today’s Executive Order are the following benefits for Alaska: Erases Arctic 12(a) Withdrawals. Nullifies President Obama’s indefinite withdrawal of nearly all of the Beaufort and Chukchi OCS leasing areas. Potential for Leasing. Calls for a review of the existing schedule of offshore lease sales and directs the Secretary of the Interior to consider whether new sales should be added for the Beaufort, Chukchi, and Cook Inlet leasing areas. More Reasonable Regulation. Requires the reconsideration and potential revision of the Arctic rule, the Well Control Rule, and other regulations imposed by the previous administration. Alaska’s offshore areas contain prolific energy resources. According to Interior’s own technical analysts, the Beaufort and Chukchi seas form one of the most prospective basins in the world. Together, these areas are projected to hold 23.6 billion barrels of oil and 104.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. For perspective, that is enough to meet all of California’s demands for oil and natural gas for 37.5 years and 43.5 years, respectively. According to a 2011 analysis by the firm Northern Economics, development of the resources in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas would create an annual average of 55,000 jobs over a 50-year period. Those jobs would create a total payroll of $145 billion over that span. Development is also projected to generate a total of $193 billion for local, state and federal treasuries. According to a 2014 poll, 73 percent of Alaskans support Arctic OCS development. The Alaska delegation has repeatedly asserted the importance of responsible energy development in the Arctic, and made every effort to preserve Arctic lease sales in the Five-Year OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022. ###
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Senator Sullivan Statement on FCC’s Roll-Back of Internet Regulation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, released the following statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) announcement today that it will roll back the burdensome and harmful public utility style regulations the Obama administration placed on broadband services. “I applaud Chairman Pai’s pledge to roll back the heavy-handed regulatory framework that was imposed on internet service providers during the Obama administration and, in my view, exceeded the FCC’s statutory authority,” said Senator Sullivan. “For decades, the internet has thrived, operating in a less burdensome regulatory environment and we must continue to encourage its development. Today’s action by the FCC allows Congress to work together on a legislative solution that allows for continued innovation, encourages competition, helps spur economic growth, and preserves and protects the open internet.” # # #
04.25.2017	04.25.17 Sullivan Attends White House Meeting to Address Opioid Epidemic WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined a bipartisan group of leaders at the White House for a meeting with the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, chaired by Governor Chris Christie (R-NJ). The commission, created in March 2017, will study ways to combat and treat the opioid crisis, which was responsible for more than 50,000 deaths in 2015 and has caused families and communities across America to endure significant loss and suffering. “I was pleased to attend today’s meeting at the White House where we had a frank and detailed discussion about how to best address the opioid crisis that is impacting so many across Alaska and our country,” said Senator Sullivan. "And while I applaud last week’s announcement of $2 million dollars in grant funding to the State of Alaska by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services – which was made possible because of the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016, passed by Congress last December – we must do more. Going forward, I will continue to work with Governor Christie and the Trump administration on this critical issue, especially as it relates to increased funding for treatment centers, as well as the Institutions of Mental Diseases (IMD) Exclusion, which are two of the biggest issues raised during last fall’s Alaska Wellness Summit.” BACKGROUND: Through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) the State of Alaska was awarded a $2 million State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grant. The grant is the first of two rounds provided for in the 21st Century Cures Act for the whole country to combat this crisis. The Medicaid Institutions of Mental Diseases (IMD) Exclusion limits qualifying institutions to having 16 beds. These institutions can also only provide services in one location; it’s not a limitation on beds per location, but rather beds per provider. With the limited number of providers in Alaska, this not only limits who provides services, it also limits where they provide services. # # #
04.18.2017	04.18.17 AK Delegation Celebrates Quintillion Ribbon-Cutting in Deadhorse DEADHORSE, AK — The Alaska Congressional Delegation attended the ribbon-cutting yesterday for the launch of Phase 1 of the Quintillion fiber system in Deadhorse, Alaska, slated to be the first intercontinental cable system. “Being connected is everything in the new economy, and it’s inspiring to see how Alaskan companies have invested in the future of our state,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “By delivering high-speed internet, companies like Quintillion are not just increasing access; they are providing the means to improve the basic health, educational and economic opportunities available to Alaskans in their communities.” "This project is a great example of private investment partnering with local Alaskan companies to fill a need for greater connectivity and access to information," said Senator Dan Sullivan. "Alaskans understand that reliable high-speed broadband is the highway to the future, and this project helps move us one step closer." "The launch of Quintillion's Phase 1 is an important milestone in Alaska's broadband infrastructure," said Congressman Don Young. "Many said it could not be done; yet through hard work, collaboration and private innovation this project is now a reality. I commend all those that worked to bring this project online and look forward to the many opportunities high-speed broadband and connectivity will bring our many rural communities." Background: The 10,000-mile intercontinental subsea fiber system will eventually connect Europe and Japan by way of Alaska and the Canadian Arctic. Phase 1 of the project will connect the Alaska communities of Nome, Kotzebue, Point Hope, Wainwright, Barrow, and Prudhoe Bay. ###
04.18.2017	04.18.17 Sullivan Statement on U.S. Air Force Intercept of Russian Bombers BARROW, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in reaction to news that U.S. Air Force F-22’s intercepted Russian bombers approximately 100 miles southwest of Kodiak, Alaska. "I want to commend the airmen of the U.S. Air Forces' 3rd Wing and the Alaska National Guard for professionally and effectively responding to the Russian bombers last night. Alaska is America's hub of air combat power for the Arctic and Asia-Pacific. This includes airmen manning F-22s and Alaska Guardsman tracking threats 24/7, 365 days a year to respond to these types of incursions of American airspace. I doubt this will be the last time they are called on to defend America's sovereignty." # # #
04.12.2017	04.12.17 Alaska Delegation Reintroduces Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation is continuing its efforts to provide equitable treatment to Alaska Native Vietnam Veterans by reintroducing the Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act. The legislation would amend the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to allow approximately 2,800 Alaska Natives who served during the Vietnam era, and missed an earlier opportunity because of that service, to apply for their government-promised Native allotment. “This has always been an issue of equity and fairness; about rectifying a wrong for our Alaska Native Vietnam Veterans who so proudly served this nation,” said Congressman Don Young. “This legislation would finally bring this issue to a close and give Alaska Native Vietnam veterans the opportunity to obtain lands promised to them under federal law. It’s a downright travesty that decades later, these honorable men and women are still waiting to receive what was promised to them. As I’ve said before, I will not rest until this longstanding inequity is resolved. I am both hopeful and optimistic – with a new administration and Secretary of Interior – this will be done in the 115th Congress.” “We as a nation should honor our prior promises to our Alaska Native veterans, who showed a special kind of patriotism and service during the Vietnam era,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “This bill seeks to cure a longstanding injustice for the Alaska Native men and women who left everything behind to serve when their nation called. With a new administration in the White House, and support from Secretary of Interior Zinke, I am hopeful that we can once and for all address this important issue.” “We owe much to our Alaska Native veterans who risked their lives in service to our country during the Vietnam War,” Senator Lisa Murkowski said. “I am pleased to cosponsor this legislation with Sen. Sullivan and Rep. Young, which helps Congress fulfill its decades-old promise to provide these veterans with the land allotments they earned and rightfully deserve. Rest assured, I will not let our Alaska Native Vietnam veterans be forgotten as we work to make good on this long overdue commitment.” “On behalf of the Alaska Native veterans of the Vietnam War and other veterans who served during the Vietnam Era, I want to take this opportunity to thank Alaska's Congressional Delegation for introducing legislation that would authorize the Alaska Native veterans of that era with the right to apply for Native allotments,” said Nelson Angapak, Alaska Native Vietnam Veteran and former Senior Vice President for the Alaska Federation of Natives. “Thank you and it is my humble hope that the 115th Congress will pass this bill; and that it will become law of the land! Thank you very much." While serving during the Vietnam War era, many Alaska Native Veterans were unable to apply for land allotments promised by the federal government under the Native Allotment of 1906 before the process was ended by the passage of ANCSA. In 1998, Congress opened an application period for some of these veterans, but unfortunately only those who served from 1969–1971 were allowed to apply. The Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act expands military service dates to coincide with the entire Vietnam conflict, which officially lasted from 1964-1975. The legislation would increase available land for selection by Alaska Native Veterans and reduce previous restrictions and occupancy requirements that prevented many veterans from receiving their allotment during the prior open season. Further, the bill includes minor policy improvements made during the 114th Congress, including a provision that requires the Department of Interior to coordinate with Alaska Native organizations to help streamline the implementation of the legislation and coordinate outreach to veterans. H.R. 1867, introduced by Congressman Don Young, has been has been referred to the House Natural Resources Committee. S. 785, introduced by Senator Sullivan and cosponsored by Senator Murkowski, has been referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Murkowski and Sullivan Introduce Bill to Restart Alaska OCS Development Lifts 12(a) Moratorium, Reinstates Arctic Lease Sales, Provides Revenue Sharing Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, both R-Alaska, yesterday introduced the Offshore Production and Energizing National Security Alaska Act of 2017 (OPENS Alaska Act) to repeal Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) withdrawals made at the end of the Obama administration, provide for lease sales in the Arctic OCS, and ensure Alaska receives a fair share of the revenues from oil and gas development off its coast. “After years of regulatory restrictions and burdens imposed by the Obama administration, this bill charts a much better course for responsible energy production in our Beaufort and Chukchi seas that actually reflects the views of the vast majority of Alaskans,” Murkowski said. “These areas contain prolific resources that can be safely developed to create jobs, reduce our deficits, keep energy affordable, and strengthen national security. I look forward to working with Alaskans and my colleagues to advance this bill through the Senate.” "The Obama administration tried to kill responsible resource development in the Arctic, ignoring the fact that the rush to the Arctic is on," Sullivan said. "Oil and gas will be developed in the region—whether by our nation or others. It is imperative that exploration and development occur with all of the safeguards required by the United States to protect the environment and the people who live in the region." According to the Department of the Interior, the Beaufort and Chukchi seas form one of the most prospective basins in the world. Together, these areas are estimated to hold 23.6 billion barrels of oil and 104.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas—enough oil and gas to meet all of California’s energy demands for 37.5 years and 43.5 years, respectively. The Senators believe the Trump administration has all the authority it needs to revoke President Obama’s unpopular, economically-damaging, and last-minute 12(a) withdrawals, but introduced legislation to set a marker that reflects the views of the vast majority of Alaskans. The OPENS Alaska Act will increase access to the Arctic OCS by requiring a minimum of three lease sales in each of the Beaufort, Chukchi, and Cook Inlet planning areas during any five-year period, as well as annual lease sales in the 8(g) zone of the Beaufort and Cook Inlet planning areas. The bill also provides revenue sharing for the state, coastal communities, and a tribal resilience fund. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The text of the bill can be found here. ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Sullivan Applauds Army Decision Keeping 4-25 Fully Intact WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the U.S. Army announced its intent to retain – in its entirety – the full force structure of the 5,000-solider-strong 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (ABN) at Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson (JBER). In 2015, the U.S. Army announced that due to force structure downsizing, it was planning to dramatically reduce the number of troops of the 4-25 so that it would become a much smaller battalion task force. Today, those plans were reversed. The U.S. Army also announced that the 4-25 will deploy approximately 1,500 soldiers to Afghanistan in support of Operation Freedom’s Sentinel. “Over the last two years my team and I have relentlessly advocated – in both Washington, D.C. and Alaska – for the Army to reverse its decision and keep its only airborne brigade combat team in both the Arctic and Asia-Pacific regions in Alaska. Today, I applaud the announcement that the Army has formally decided to keep the entirety of the 4-25 in Alaska for the foreseeable future. This is an important day for Alaska, and for the national security interests of the United States. This decision sends a clear message that our military leaders recognize the emerging security challenges in both the Arctic and the Asia-Pacific, and that our country remains committed to ensuring peace and security through strength in both of these critical regions. “I wish to thank Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley and former Secretary of the Army Eric Fanning for their work – including traveling with me to Alaska – in making this decision a reality. I also wish to thank Senator Murkowski, Congressman Young, and the entire Alaska community for helping to show how strategically important this brigade – and all of Alaska’s military – is to our country. “Finally, I want to thank the men and women of the 4-25 and their families. I’ve gotten to know many of you over the past several years in Alaska and at training exercises outside the state. Despite the recent uncertainty of the 4-25’s status, you continued on with your mission. You and your families represent America’s finest. Godspeed on your next deployment.” # # #
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Sullivan Statement on U.S. Airstrike in Syria WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement tonight after the United States conducted air strikes against the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria: "I commend the brave young men and women in the U.S. military for carrying out President Trump’s orders against the regime of Bashar al-Assad. President Trump stated that Assad had crossed lines by using banned chemical weapons against his own people, and this time, the President of the United States acted. I applaud the President for taking this decisive action, which was focused on degrading Syria’s ability to undertake chemical attacks in the future. “Going forward, we must continue the difficult task of reestablishing U.S. credibility in the region by working closely with our allies to advance our collective security interests, and ensuring that Assad does not commit further chemical attacks against his own people or his neighbors.” ###
04.05.2017	04.05.17 Save Our Seas Act Advances from Commerce Committee Bipartisan marine debris legislation heads to Senate floor WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) thanked their colleagues on the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee today for unanimously passing the Save Our Seas Act, which will help address the global marine debris crisis affecting America’s coastal ecosystems and communities. Senators Sullivan and Whitehouse also held a discussion on the ramifications of ocean debris, and how the Save Our Seas Act can help form international cooperation toward addressing and mitigating the problem. “I am grateful to see such broad support for the Save Our Seas Act from senators of both parties representing coastal and landlocked states alike,” Senator Sullivan said. “The committee members clearly understand that the marine debris crisis has broad implications for every American. With hundreds of thousands of tons of debris estimated to be floating on the ocean’s surface, this matter is urgent and threatens the well-being of our citizens, coastal communities – and for Alaskans, the sustainability of our world-class fisheries. We will work to broaden this coalition to give NOAA the tools it needs to assist in marine debris clean-up, response and research, and encourage the Trump administration to engage in negotiations with nations responsible for depositing the vast majority of debris into the oceans.” Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Chris Coons (D-DE), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) have also signed on as co-sponsors of the legislation. # # #
04.05.2017	04.05.17 Sullivan Raises Alarm over “Major Advancements” in North Korean Missile Technology WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, yesterday discussed the rapidly expanding nuclear and missile threats from North Korea with General John Hyten, commander of U.S. Strategic Command. Confirmed by U.S. officials, North Korea last night conducted a missile test speculated to be a KN-15 medium-range missile which uses solid-fueled propulsion. Senator Sullivan pressed General Hyten on “when, not if” North Korea becomes capable of ranging U.S. shores with a nuclear-tipped Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM). “The day it becomes public that they can do that…it will be on the front page of all the newspapers and magazines…. there will be a lot of demands to do something immediately,” Senator Sullivan said. Senator Sullivan then questioned General Hyten about a major advancement by North Korea during a “solid-fueled” rocket test on February 11. In response, General Hyten said: “February 11 was a very important date…the North Koreans launched a new, solid, medium range ballistic missile, of a new transport-erector launcher…out of a place we’ve never seen before. That showed a new technology, a new North Korean capability… a solid rocket can be rolled out and launched at a moment’s notice.” Lastly, Senator Sullivan pushed for increased missile defense testing and a change in culture in the testing community. General Hyten evoked Wernher Von Braun, a pioneer of rocket science. “He had a 60 percent fail rate,” General Hyten said of Wernher Von Braun. “Can you imagine if we had a 60 percent failure rate, what the newspapers would say?” General Hyten said that following a test, the real questions should be, “was that a successful test, did we learn what we needed to do to advance the system, are we advancing fast enough, because North Korea is going fast.” After the hearing, Senator Sullivan concluded: “General Hyten confirmed it’s not a matter of if, but when North Korea will hold Alaska and the Lower 48 states at risk of a nuclear weapon. North Korea is aggressively testing both their nuclear and missile programs and we need to be testing just as aggressively, if not more so, with our missile defense systems. The future security of the American people depends upon it.” ###
04.05.2017	04.05.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Dan Fauske WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke today on the Senate floor in recognition of Dan Fauske, a great husband, father, state leader and friend. Dan’s decades of public service to our state – at the North Slope Borough, the Alaska Housing Finance Corporation and Alaska Gasline Development Corporation – earned him the respect and trust of people all across Alaska. Dan Fauske passed away this afternoon. For all he’s done for Alaska – Dan Fauske is Senator Sullivan’s Alaskan of the Week. The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO DAN FAUSKE Mr. President, for months I’ve been coming down to the floor each week to recognize someone in my state who has made a difference—someone who has devoted time and energy to making my state a better place to live for others. I call these individuals our Alaskan of the Week. As I’ve said repeatedly, my state is the most beautiful state in the country—I’d argue in the world. I urge everybody here in this room, and watching on television, to come and see it for yourself. It’ll be a trip of a lifetime. Guaranteed. But it’s the people that truly make my state unique. People who are helping each other. Strong willed, warm hearted, tenacious people who have worked tirelessly for all of us who live there. Mr. President, this week I’d like to honor Dan Fauske, one of the strongest willed, warmest hearted people I have ever known. All he’s done for us has made Alaska a better place for all of us. Dan came to Alaska in 1974 after serving in the Army, like so many Alaskans. And like so many Alaskans, he arrived with the glint of steel in his eye and a mission to help build our state. Alaska is full of natural wonders, but our man-made wonders are also marvels. And Dan wanted to be part of building more of those marvels. He first arrived in the North Slope Borough to help the community build up their infrastructure and strengthen the villages in the area. It was a time of enormous change for all of Alaska, and particularly the North Slope. Oil from the North Slope’s Prudhoe Bay, the largest oil field in North America, had recently begun to flow. The largest lands claim Act in history, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, had recently passed, and the governments of villages in rural Alaska were being formed and reformed. After Dan went back to school to receive a master’s degree in business administration from Gonzaga, he made his way back to Alaska to serve as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer for Alaska’s North Slope Borough, where he launched an ambitious and ultimately successful capital plan to provide running water and sewer services to the villages throughout the Borough. According to Bill Tracey, Sr. from Point Lay, who was a co-worker at the time, “Dan’s excellent work ethic and skills earned him the respect of the North Slope leaders… His accomplishments were remarkable.” With his beautiful and spirited wife Elaine always by his side, Dan then moved his family to Anchorage to head up the Alaska Housing Finance Corporation. For 18 years, Dan managed AHFC’s nearly $5 billion in assets. It’s not an overstatement to say that he revolutionized that agency, doing remarkable things—including, and most importantly, helping thousands and thousands of Alaskans pursue their dream of buying an affordable home. The Alaska Legislature just passed a bill to name the Alaska Housing Finance Corporation the Daniel R. Fauske Building. There will be a dedication ceremony in Anchorage this Saturday. As his bio indicates, there is no doubt that for decades, Dan served Alaska with his hands, his heart, and his head. But a bio, on paper, can only tell you so much about a person. To really appreciate him, you have to have been with him and watched the energy and can-do spirit radiate off of Dan. You had to have watched him talk to people: with respect, with humor, understanding and keen intelligence. He had a big laugh and told great stories. He also had that rare ability to genuinely connect with everybody he met, and was able to speak the language of a businessman, a builder, veteran, and a public servant. He spoke the language of a father, a husband, a friend, and a true Alaskan. In so doing, he gained the respect of politicians, state workers, military members—people from all across Alaska. If you wanted something done and done right, you asked Dan Fauske to help do it. People trusted Dan Fauske. I trusted Dan Fauske. Most importantly, Dan was a great father to three great boys: DJ, Scott, and Brad, and two daughters, Marcy and Kathy. And he was a great husband to his incredible, vivacious and very strong wife Elaine. Mr. President, Dan passed away this afternoon, with his family and friends by his side. Our prayers, and the prayers of so many Alaskans, go out to all of them during this difficult time. For anyone watching, I humbly ask that they say a prayer too. For all he’s done for all of us—and all his memory will continue to do for us--Dan Fauske is our Alaskan of the Week. He was also my very good friend. And my wife Julie and I will miss him greatly. ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 President Trump Signs Resolution Overturning U.S. Fish and Wildlife Regulation End-of-term Obama Regulation Seized Alaska’s Authority to Manage Fish and Game WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation today applauded President Trump’s signing of H.J. Res. 69, a resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to overturn an August 5, 2016 rule by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that seized authority away from the State of Alaska to manage fish and wildlife on federal refuge lands in Alaska: “Upholding the rule of law and protecting Alaska’s authority to manage fish and game throughout our state is critically important to me – which is why I worked tirelessly to eliminate this unlawful rule from the federal register,” said sponsor of H.J. Res. 69 Congressman Don Young. “I thank all those that made this moment a reality, including Senators Sullivan and Murkowski, the State of Alaska, numerous stakeholders, and our partners in Congress and the White House. The FWS rule was entirely inappropriate. Not only was it a major violation of laws passed by Congress, it undermined years of scientific and peer reviewed game management in Alaska and falsely vilified the people of my state. Because so many people have fallen victim to blatant falsehoods pushed by the Humane Society and others, it’s important to note that this resolution does not allow for ‘brutal, inhumane or unsporting’ hunting practices. The State of Alaska is very clear about that, this does not occur. This resolution was about the authority to manage fish and game in Alaska – as outlined in the Alaska Statehood Act and ANILCA. The Obama administration never ceased to amaze me when it came to trampling upon the promises made to the Alaskan people, and this rule was yet another blow to the rural residents of my state. I applaud all those that stood united with the Alaskan people. I’m proud to say logic, reason and the law won the day.” “I thank President Trump for signing this important measure into law. This unlawful and unprecedented Fish and Wildlife rule was a prime example of why having the Congressional Review Act is so important,” said Senator Sullivan. “Specifically, the rule undercut meaningful public participation in refuge management decisions, utterly disregarded the legal protections and rights given to the state in the Alaska Statehood Act and ANILCA, and upended the cooperative relationship that has existed between federal agencies and the state for years. I was proud to work alongside Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young to pass this resolution in both bodies of Congress to restore the sovereignty of Alaska in managing fish and wildlife on our lands.” “I was pleased to get a call from President Trump yesterday after he signed the disapproval resolution to overturn the rule restricting Alaska's ability to manage wildlife on federal refuge lands,” Senator Murkowski said. “By signing it, the president has upheld states’ rights, protected Alaska’s hunting and fishing traditions, and put a swift end to the Fish and Wildlife Service’s wanton effort to take greater control of nearly 77 million acres of our state. I thank all who supported this resolution – including Sen. Sullivan and Rep. Young, who sponsored the Senate and House versions of it – to restore our authority to determine the best practices for wildlife management in Alaska.” On February 7, 2017, Alaska Congressman Don Young introduced H.J. Res 69 to overturn a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) rule that significantly undermines public participation and restricts the state’s ability to manage fish and wildlife on federal refuge lands in Alaska. Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski are both the sponsors of Senate companion legislation to H.J. Res 69. H.J. Res 69 passed the U.S. House of Representatives on February 16, 2017. The Senate passed H.J. Res 69 on March 21, 2017. ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Senators Urge Trump to Complete THAAD Deployment to South Korea, Press China to End Retaliation WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) sent a bipartisan letter to President Donald Trump – prior to his meeting this week with Chinese President Xi Jinping – to support the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) to South Korea and to draw attention to unwarranted Chinese retaliation to the deployment of this missile defense system. Underscoring the increasingly unpredictable and volatile nature of North Korea’s recent nuclear and missile tests, the Senators wrote: “As President Xi knows well, THAAD is a defensive missile system critical to protecting the Korean people and, just as importantly, the tens of thousands of American troops and their families stationed in Northeast Asia from evolving North Korean capabilities. In your discussions with President Xi, we hope you will underscore that the United States and the Republic of Korea’s joint decision to deploy THAAD is entirely a result of North Korea’s continued aggressive behavior." The Senators added: “While China continues to aggressively oppose a missile defense system on the Korean Peninsula, China has done little in recent years to slow or halt North Korea’s missile and nuclear programs—the only reason this system is needed. Mr. President, we hope you will call upon President Xi to reexamine his view of the THAAD deployment and encourage his country to cease its unwarranted and unfair economic retaliation against South Korea. We also hope that, given China’s considerable influence over North Korea, you will discuss how China can play a more productive role in efforts to achieve the denuclearization of North Korea.” Other signatories to the letter include Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Christopher A. Coons (D-DE), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), Joe Manchin III (D-WV), John McCain (R-AZ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Christopher S. Murphy (D-CT), David Perdue (R-GA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Luther Strange (R-AL), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Roger F. Wicker (R-MI), and Todd Young (R-IN). A copy of the full letter is available HERE. ###
04.03.2017	04.03.17 Sullivan Welcomes Alaska Cherry Blossom Princess to DC WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced that he has selected Caitlin Sweeney to serve as Alaska’s representative in the 2017 Cherry Blossom Princess Program. Caitlin Sweeney is an Iñupiat originally from Barrow, Alaska. Currently a sophomore at Cornell University, she is pursuing a major in hotel administration. She serves on the executive board of the non-profit organization, Cayuga’s Watchers, is a member of the women’s club volleyball team, and volunteers as a tutor for Native American students in the greater Ithaca area. Caitlin is the daughter of Kevin and Tara Sweeney. “I am excited to welcome Caitlin to our nation’s capital, where she will proudly represent Alaska in the 2017 Cherry Blossom Princess Program,” said Senator Sullivan. “Caitlin is a great ambassador for our state and a fantastic role model for younger Alaskans. She has excelled in her college studies and extracurricular activities, all the while devoting time to serving others. Congratulations, Caitlin!” The Cherry Blossom Princess Program, organized by the National Council of State Societies, will run the week of April 3rd, highlighted by the annual Cherry Blossom Parade. Representatives from the 50 states, U.S. territories and various countries will come together to network and participate in community volunteer activities in Washington, DC. # # #
03.31.2017	03.31.17 Alaska Senators Commemorate State’s Purchase from Russia 150 Years Ago Resolution Recognizes Alaska’s Sesquicentennial WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan (both R-AK), introduced a resolution (attached) commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Alaska Purchase. This resolution highlights important events from the past 150 years and recognizes the many characteristics that make our state so unique. “Honoring our 150th anniversary as part of the U.S. gives us the opportunity to look at Alaska’s rich and diverse history and to see Secretary of State William Seward’s vision carried out. He recognized Alaska’s vast resources – both natural and human – and understood what they could contribute to the nation,” said Senator Murkowski. “Cession changed Alaska forever, giving our earliest pioneers hope and opportunity. Alaskans have the backbone, determination, vision, and willingness to take a chance. Today, that pioneering spirit remains.” “One hundred and fifty years ago, forward thinking leaders, including Secretary of State William Seward and some very forceful Congressman and Senators, saw huge possibility in the contributions Alaska could make – both in terms of our natural resources, and our national pride, and our national security,” said Senator Sullivan. “Alaska has made good on that early promise, and we still have the vision of those leaders driving us to a brighter future. Alaska has contributed so much to our nation. It is our great land. Working together, we will make sure that it continues to live up to its name, for us, our children, and for generations to come.” ###
03.29.2017	03.29.17 Senators Form Bipartisan Alliance to Address Marine Debris Crisis WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) today introduced S. 756, the bipartisan Save our Seas (SOS) Act to help address the marine debris epidemic affecting America’s ocean shorelines and inland waterways, as well as other coasts across the globe. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) have also co-sponsored the bill. “The global marine debris problem threatens treasured natural areas, endangers iconic wildlife species, and litters shorelines in Alaska and around the world,” said Senator Sullivan. “It is time for our government to hold accountable the countries responsible for the majority of the debris in our oceans. This bill encourages the Trump administration to forge alliances with these countries and to take a stand against the dangerous levels of debris in our oceans and make sure that they do not reach America’s coastlines. I am honored to work on a bipartisan basis in the Senate to provide NOAA with the necessary resources to clean our beaches and protect our coastlines for future generations.” “Stopping the flow of garbage that fills our oceans and washes up on shorelines is a challenge that requires bipartisan and international cooperation,” said Senator Whitehouse. “I’m glad we can work across the aisle in Congress to help keep debris out of Narragansett Bay and off our beaches and protect the small businesses that rely on a clean and healthy Rhode Island coastline. We have a long way to go, but this legislation is a start toward research, international efforts, and responsible trade policies that together will help us better care for the world’s oceans.” “Marine debris threatens critical species and habitats, litters our shorelines, and hurts coastal businesses,” said Senator Booker. “Our bipartisan bill authorizes NOAA to continue and expand its work to address this serious problem, and I look forward to working with Senator Sullivan and our other colleagues to secure additional funding for this program.” “Marine debris is a global issue, but it also hits close to home for Alaskans – which is why I have continuously worked in the Senate to highlight the dangers and impacts of marine debris,” said Senator Murkowski. “With more coastline than the entire Lower 48 combined, massive amounts of debris washing up on our shores threatens our environment, the wildlife, and our livelihoods. Healthy oceans are vital to a healthy economy and all aspects of our lives in Alaska, and it is essential we address the growing issue of marine debris. This legislation takes important steps to provide the tools needed to tackle this growing problem.” “Marine debris litters both our ocean coastlines and important inland waterways like the Great Lakes, which is a source of drinking water for 40 million people and a critical economic driver,” said Senator Peters. “Whether it’s research into the effects of certain types of debris or cleaning up abandoned vessels and ghost nets, NOAA’s Marine Debris Program helps preserve and protect the unique Great Lakes ecosystem. This bipartisan legislation will help strengthen research and international coordination to ensure that we can safeguard our coastlines and the industries that depend on them.” “I am proud to join my colleagues in supporting NOAA’s Marine Debris Program and other actions to reduce marine debris,” said Senator Coons. “Marine debris harms our ocean and coastal ecosystems, threatens fisheries and marine life and reduces the quality of life for millions around the world. I am especially glad that this bill encourages a greater focus on international engagement to address this global problem, and research into more sustainable materials that could reduce marine debris by designing for degradability.” “North Carolina is a state blessed with hundreds of miles of coastline along the Atlantic Ocean and marines debris threatens our coastal communities and small businesses,” said Senator Tillis. “I am thankful to Senators Sullivan and Whitehouse for leading the bipartisan effort to provide the Executive Branch with additional tools to fight this problem. If we do not give agencies like NOAA the abilities to fulfill their missions, we are wasting taxpayer dollars and missing opportunities to fix solvable issues." BACKGROUND: Intact marine debris from foreign countries travel great distances and pose problems for nations who are not responsible for the mismanagement of the source country’s solid waste. This is particularly true in the United States and Alaska whose shorelines require the constant cleanup of foreign-sourced marine debris. It is estimated that there is more than 250,000 tons of debris floating on the oceans’ surface and 11,000 tons of debris enter the Great Lakes every year. A recent study published by the Marine Pollution Bulletin revealed that cleanup workers in Alaska collected 11 tons of debris on 50 total miles of beaches. The Save our Seas (SOS) Act works to address three critical areas: Allow the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize funds to assist with cleanup and response. The Governor of the affected state may request the NOAA Administrator make this declaration. The bill would reauthorize NOAA’s Marine Debris Program through FY2022. Its mission is to conduct research on the source of marine debris and take action to prevent and clean up marine debris. Encourages the Executive Branch – led by the U.S. State Department – to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, examining the causes of ocean debris, effective prevention and mitigation strategies, and the economic benefits for treaty nations in addressing the crisis. # # #
03.24.2017	03.24.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Ivory Gerhardt Cyrus WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke this week on the Senate floor in recognition of Ivory Gerhardt Cyrus, of Kiana, a powerful young advocate for students suffering from fetal alcohol spectrum disorder and founder of the “One Positive Thing” initiative in Alaska. Cyrus was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO IVORY GERHARDT CYRUS Mr. President, as my colleagues know, I have been coming to the floor week after week to recognize an Alaskan who has made a difference in his or her community. As I have said repeatedly--I am a little biased, of course--I have the honor of living in the most beautiful State in the country, but it is our people who truly make it special. They are resilient, kind, and giving. And it is the next generation that is going to continue to make my State the best place in the world to live. This week I would like to introduce my colleagues to 18-year-old Ivory Gerhardt Cyrus, this week's Alaskan of the Week. Ivory lives in Kiana, a beautiful, close-knit Inupiat village of less than 400 people on the banks of the Kobuk River in Northwest Alaska. Like many villages in Alaska, there are no roads in and out. People travel to Kotzebue, which is the closest hub city--it is not very much of a city but a big village--about 40 miles away by plane or snow machine, boat, or sometimes dog team. That is where Ivory was raised--in Kiana--and where, against many odds, she has strived. Ivory was born with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder, which made getting through school a challenge. She was at times misunderstood, at times bullied, and many didn't know how to deal with her properly. About 120 kids each year are diagnosed with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder in Alaska. When she was in middle school, Ivory began committing herself to helping them by speaking out about her own experiences and by advocating the way students with behavioral issues are treated in school. She was an advocate for them. Now she is an honor roll high school senior, graduating this spring, and along the way, she has become a State of Alaska trainer for fetal alcohol spectrum disorder. She gave a presentation at an international conference recently on disability and diversity, and she was named one of five recipients of the 27th annual Women of Achievement and Youth Awards in Alaska. This is what I find most impressive about Ivory: She is passing a message of hope and service on to her peers. She started a group, encouraging the members of the group to do one positive thing each day. The name of the group is appropriately entitled “One Positive Thing,” or “OPT.” That message has spread throughout her community, and now villages in Kiana are remembering to do one positive thing each day for themselves, their families, and their community. Last year, she held her first OPT conference in Kiana for youth all across the region. This year, that conference--the next OPT conference, One Positive Thing--will be held on April 7 and 8. Ivory is an exceptional young woman. She is going to go on to do exceptional things. Next fall, she plans on attending the University of Alaska Anchorage where she plans to continue to do one positive thing each day and will bring that positive attitude to the students at UAA. She is going to continue to encourage others to do that as well. I congratulate her for all of her accomplishments, for being our Alaskan of the Week, and congratulations to her parents, Jean and Tom, for the wonderful job they have done in raising this exceptional young lady. Ivory gives us all hope for the future. # # #
03.23.2017	03.23.17 Sullivan, Heitkamp Reintroduce Bill to Combat Domestic Violence WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) today reintroduced the Pro bono Work to Empower and Represent (POWER) Act, to help combat domestic abuse and sexual violence. Senators Shaheen (D-NH), Murkowski (R-AK), Capito (R-WV), Cornyn (R-TX) and Daines (R-MT) also co-sponsored the bill. “Today we mark the seventh anniversary of Alaska’s first Choose Respect marches against the epidemic of domestic violence and sexual assault, part of the larger initiative started when I served as Alaska’s attorney general. Alaskans have made progress in combatting this scourge, but the continued unacceptably high rates of domestic violence relative to the rest of the nation mean that more work needs to be done,” said Senator Sullivan. “Pro bono assistance from Alaska’s legal community has been a particularly helpful tool in giving hope to victims of domestic violence. The POWER Act will bring this tool to more communities, encouraging lawyers across the country to get involved and help victims who too often fear or are unfamiliar with the justice system. I am optimistic that in the new Congress, with a number of new colleagues signing on, we can get the POWER Act passed and onto President Trump’s desk.” “No victim of domestic violence should have to live in fear for their safety because they can’t afford legal protection, but for too many voiceless women and men across the country, that every day fear is their reality. We can do better,” said Senator Heitkamp. “By making sure legal services are available to domestic violence victims, our bipartisan bill seeks to help end the cycle of violence that imprisons so many across this country. As former Attorneys General, Senator Sullivan and I both understand how the lack of access to legal services can prevent survivors from finding the assistance necessary to stop the cycle of abuse and escape their abuser. That’s why our bill asks U.S. Attorneys across the country to prioritize pro-bono legal work or services to address domestic violence in their states – particularly for the most vulnerable populations like women in North Dakota’s Indian Country – so victims of domestic violence can obtain the services and information they need to finally walk away from their abusers and move forward with their lives.” The POWER Act directs that each year, the United States Attorney in each judicial district across the country hold at least one event, in partnership with domestic violence service providers or volunteer lawyer projects, which promotes pro bono legal services for survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. Each office is also asked to submit a report to the Attorney General detailing the occurrence of the event to the Department of Justice which will then compile the nation-wide reports into a single report to be submitted to Congress annually. Providing legal services after the first experience of domestic violence can be a proactive solution to stopping continued domestic violence. Legal representation increases the possibility of successfully obtaining a protective order against an attacker from 32 percent without an attorney to 83 percent with an attorney. Approximately one-in-four women will suffer some form of domestic violence during their lifetime. According to a national survey by the National Network to End Domestic Violence, in one day over 12,000 requests for services, including legal representation, for domestic violence survivors were unmet. Additonally, critically important to both Senators is addressing the high rates of domestic and sexual violence among the Native American and Alaska Native populations in their states. The bill includes a provision requiring many United States Attorney’s offices to work with the Native populations in their judicial district in planning and holding an event every few years with a focus on addressing these crimes in Indian Country and among Native populations. Senators Sullivan and Heitkamp, both former attorneys general of their states, understand how the legal system can help prevent the probability that victims will again be abused, and that a lack of access to legal services is one of the leading obstacles for women with children in getting out of domestic violence situations. Congressman Joe Kennedy (D-MA) and other House members are expected to introduce companion legislation next week in the House. # # #
03.22.2017	03.22.17 Sullivan Chairs Commerce Subcommittee Hearing with Coast Guard Commandant Senator Highlights Importance of Adequate Funding for Coast Guard’s Missions WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today convened his first hearing as chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and the Coast Guard. The hearing, attended by Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Paul Zukunft, examined the missions, manpower, resources, acquisitions and budgetary needs of the U.S. Coast Guard. “Congress has given the Coast Guard a wide range of missions, from search and rescue, icebreaking, and marine environmental protection, to port security, drug interdiction, international crisis response, and readiness to support Department of Defense operations,” said Senator Sullivan. “In the coming months, I’ll be working with my fellow members of the subcommittee to ensure the Coast Guard—the fifth branch of the Armed Services—is properly resourced to fund its priorities, modernize its assets and successfully complete is numerous, wide-ranging missions.” Senator Sullivan also pressed the Commandant on the increasing human activity in the Arctic, including the massive Russian military build-up, and the Coast Guard’s ability to enforce American sovereignty and maintain security in the region. “With the thawing of the Arctic, there is heightened interest in the region’s future, and the Coast Guard is currently our front line,” added Senator Dan Sullivan. “America is lagging behind other countries, particularly Russia, when it comes operating and competing in the Arctic. The recapitalization of our polar icebreaking fleet is essential to ensuring America’s interests in the Arctic, and I welcomed the Commandant’s testimony today indicating the White House’s FY 2018 Budget includes funding for a new ice breaker and offshore patrol cutters. These assets will be an important component of a larger Arctic strategy that includes operating bases, aviation assets, and other vessels designed to withstand the harsh conditions of this region.” # # #
03.21.2017	03.21.17 Alaska Delegation Works Together to Reverse Harmful U.S. Fish and Wildlife Rule Legislation Passes Senate, Headed to President’s Desk WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation today applauded the Senate’s passage of H.J. Res. 69, a joint resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to overturn an August 2016 final rule issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that significantly undermines public participation and restricts the state’s ability to manage fish and wildlife on federal refuge lands in Alaska. “Working closely with Senator Lisa Murkowski and Congressman Don Young, we were able to convince our colleagues that today’s vote was about undoing a serious and unlawful regulation promulgated by the Fish and Wildlife Service in August 2016. In Alaska, many hunt for survival, both personal and cultural,” said Senator Sullivan. “Alaskans have been able to maintain these strong and life-sustaining traditions through a rigorous scientific process that allows for public participation and ensures we manage our fish and game for sustainability, as required by the Alaska Constitution. “This regulation usurped the state’s authority in Alaska – and could have been used as a precedent in other states. I appreciate all the work that Congressman Young did in shepherding this resolution through the House, and am thankful that my colleagues recognized that this resolution was backed by the force of law, the principle of federalism, and respect for all Alaskans, including the Alaska Native people who have been hunting, fishing and subsisting off the land for generations,” Senator Sullivan concluded. “Congress explicitly provided Alaska with the authority to manage its fish and wildlife in not one, not two, but three separate laws - the Alaska Statehood Act, ANILCA, and the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act,” Senator Murkowski said. “It is clear that these laws firmly placed that right and responsibility in the hands of Alaskans, and I thank my Senate colleagues for recognizing this today. The sustainability of Alaska’s ecosystems depends on professional management of fish and game populations, and no one understands these well-established, best practices better than our wildlife management professionals in Alaska. By overturning this rule, we can now rely on them to protect our fishing and hunting traditions for generations to come.” “Since its inception, I’ve worked to overturn this shortsighted and illegal rulemaking by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife,” said sponsor of H.J. Res. 69 Congressman Don Young. “Not only was it a massive jurisdictional power grab, it clearly undermined the laws passed by Congress to protect Alaska’s authority to manage fish and wildlife upon all our lands. Today’s actions represent an enormous victory not only for Alaska and our cooperative game management system, but also for those across the country concerned with future government encroachment. Overturning this rule could not be possible without the support of Senator Dan Sullivan and Senator Lisa Murkowski, the State of Alaska – who is fighting this battle in court – and the numerous stakeholders that joined our cause. Alaskans take the management of our lands and wildlife extremely serious, and this resolution is an important step to protecting that authority. I encourage President Trump to sign this resolution and put the final nail in the coffin for this egregious rule.” # # #
03.17.2017	03.17.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Pastor Evelyn Erbele WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke this week on the Senate floor in recognition of Pastor Evelyn Erbele, co-pastor of Ketchikan’s First United Methodist Church, who operates the First City Homeless Services Day Shelter. Erbele was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO EVELYN ERBELE Madam President, every week for the past few months, I have been coming down to the Senate floor to recognize a special Alaskan, someone who makes my State--what we believe is the most beautiful and unique State in our country--a better place for all of us. I call this person our Alaskan of the Week. Last week, I had the opportunity to recognize Glen Hanson, who volunteers his time by flying in what we refer to as the Iditarod Air Force--members of the Alaska volunteer community pilots who fly supplies in for the Last Great Race. I know the pages are really interested in the Last Great Race. So, just as a quick update, we had a winner. It is still going on, but one musher, Mitch Seavey, crossed the finish line in Nome, AK, in record time. I congratulate Mitch and all of the members of the Iditarod Air Force who are still out there, flying, when it is 30, 40, below zero. It is a tough race, a real tough race. Iowans, I am sure, could do well in it but not a lot of other Americans. Today, I want to take my colleagues and viewers to a very different place in Alaska--about 1,300 miles southeast of Nome, where all the Iditarod action is going on, really almost a world away--to a beautiful city called Ketchikan, AK. Ketchikan is the first port city that people will visit when they take the Alaska Marine Highway's Inside Passage up to Alaska. It is a trip that I encourage everybody to take. It is beautiful. Flanked by the towering Tongass National Forest, it is a place full of life and spirit, mountains, forests, lots of rain, lots of salmon, and lots of jaw-dropping scenery. Yet, like most places across our country, it has its challenges, and it has a challenge with homelessness, like many communities in America and Alaska. Luckily, for all of us, Ketchikan is also home to a very caring community that has set its sights on helping its fellow Alaskans. One of these people is Pastor Evelyn Erbele, our Alaskan of the Week, who has dedicated her life to helping others. Evelyn is the copastor with her husband Terry of the First United Methodist Church of Ketchikan. There is a day shelter in the church's social hall, which provides a hot meal, shower, clean clothes, and a place for the community's homeless to go every day of the week. Oftentimes when we think of homelessness, we think of people not having a place to sleep, but it is also important to remember that being homeless means having no place to go during the day. First City Homeless Services--Day Shelter gives people a place to go during the day. Pastor Evelyn oversees that day shelter. According to the manager of the shelter, Chris Alvarado, who himself has been homeless, she does so with commitment and with kindness and with compassion. “She has a heart of gold and gives 100 percent,” said one resident of Ketchikan about Evelyn. Evelyn met her husband Terry in Seward, AK, where she was a nurse in 1976. From Seward, they set out on a journey to help people around the world--Nigeria, Lithuania, Russia. In 2009, Evelyn--now with a Ph.D. in theology and ordained by the Methodist Church--went up the Alaskan Highway from Bellingham to Ketchikan with her husband. She didn't know when she accepted the job at the Methodist Church in Ketchikan as copastor that she would be overseeing the day shelter. At first, according to her, the work was a bit unsettling. “I never intentionally walked side by side with people who are homeless,” she said. She continued: “Initially, I may have been biased. I was using the word ‘them’ when I would describe the people I was working with. One day, the Lord said to me, Evelyn, you are them. You are my child no less or no more than they are.” She said that after hearing that voice, she realized she wasn't working with “them” anymore. “I was working with men and women who were in a place that I easily could have been.” In her years working to help the homeless in her community in Ketchikan, she realized that not everybody who is homeless fits neatly into “one basket.” There are lots of reasons for homelessness, she said, and the homeless may have many, many faces: men, women, children, families, the old, and the young. As the Presiding Officer knows, homelessness is a big challenge across our Nation. On any given day, tens of thousands of Americans--hundreds of thousands--don't have a permanent place to call home. Of course, the best way to address this is to have a strong economy and job opportunities, and that is what we need to be focusing on here in the Senate. But we also need people like Pastor Evelyn not only in Alaska but across the country, who are tireless advocates for helping the homeless. I thank all of them. I especially thank her, and I thank her for being our Alaskan of the Week. # # #
03.17.2017	03.17.17 Sullivan and Markey Call on FCC to Protect E-Rate Funding E-Rate funding is critical to providing internet access at schools and libraries, especially in rural areas WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA) today sent a letter to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) calling on Chairman Ajit Pai to support the E-Rate program. The E-Rate program, a part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, provides schools and libraries funding for internet access. Before passage of the law that created the E-Rate program, barely 14 percent of classrooms had access to the internet. Today, nearly all schools around the country are connected. “The E-Rate program ensures that students from working-class and rural neighborhoods can connect to and be afforded all of the opportunities given to students from more affluent communities,” write Senators Markey and Sullivan in their letter to the FCC. “With technology expanding into nearly every facet of our lives, we need to ensure all Americans – whether urban or rural, rich or poor – remain connected and competitive in this global economy by continuing to support this essential program that millions of kids rely on across the nation.” A copy of the senators’ letter can be found HERE. ###
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Following Bipartisan Push, Vietnam Helicopter Crew Monument in Arlington Advances WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and U.S. Representative Mark Amodei (R-NV-2) today congratulated the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association (VHPA) on the new proposal from the Secretary of the Army to place a small monument in Arlington National Cemetery honoring the nearly 5,000 helicopter pilots and crewmembers killed during the Vietnam War. Earlier this year, Sullivan, Baldwin, and Amodei introduced the Vietnam Helicopter Crew Monument Act, bipartisan legislation to move this memorial forward. “The outcome is a win-win for Vietnam Veterans, Gold Star Families, and Arlington National Cemetery,” said Bob Hesselbein, Legacy Committee Chairman of the VHPA. “When Arlington National Cemetery leadership came to understand the commitment of Congress to honoring our fallen brothers who operated helicopters in the Vietnam War, they found a way to place a suitable monument, save a beautiful tree, and preserve burial space for American heroes. We could not have achieved this win-win outcome without the help of these legislators. We are grateful for his commitment to honoring those who died operating helicopters in the Vietnam War.” “I’m pleased to see that Arlington National Cemetery plans to appropriately honor the sacrifice of the many veterans who served as the backbone of air operations during the Vietnam War,” said Senator Sullivan. “The monument will be a long-standing reminder of their dedication and commitment to all future visitors. I was glad to introduce this bill with the support of my colleagues and am pleased to see this issue’s swift resolution.” “I’m incredibly proud to have worked alongside Bob Hesselbein and across party lines to help make this memorial a reality,” said Senator Baldwin. “Throughout the Vietnam War, brave and courageous helicopter crew members made incredible sacrifices. Our veterans and their families have earned this recognition and they deserve to be properly honored at Arlington National Cemetery.” “With more than 40 years having passed since the end of the Vietnam War, I’m pleased to know this group of deserving veterans will finally receive proper recognition – an honor that is long overdue,” said Congressman Amodei. “Since first learning the process had failed these veterans, I’ve been committed to advancing this effort through the House for the past two Congresses. In doing so, it's been a pleasure to work alongside the dedicated group of people at the VHPA, who have worked tirelessly to see this through to fruition. I also thank Senators Baldwin and Sullivan for teaming up with me and supporting this initiative.” The new commemorative monument was authorized following conversations between the VHPA and Karen Durham-Aguilera, Executive Director of the Army National Military Cemeteries. The monument will contain all the design elements in the original Vietnam Helicopter Pilot and Crewmember Monument proposal and the bipartisan Vietnam Helicopter Crew Monument Act. The monument will be placed next to the VHPA-dedicated tree along the sidewalk bordering Memorial Drive, near the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Memorial Amphitheater in Arlington National Cemetery. The VHPA has agreed to fund the construction and installation costs of the monument. PHOTOS: Planned monument layout and location are here. ###
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Sullivan Statement on White House’s 2018 Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today on the White House’s proposed fiscal year 2018 budget request: “First and foremost, it’s important to remember that Congress holds the power of the purse, and will ultimately fund the federal government. This budget request from the White House is a first step and a general blueprint for where our country should be headed: Increased funding for our national defense and homeland security, and cuts to agencies that have stifled economic growth over the last eight years. However, some of the specific cuts in this budget disproportionately target rural economies across our country, including in Alaska, and some don’t align with the commitments made by members of the Trump administration during their confirmation process and hearings. “Going forward, I’ll be working closely with Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young to fight for programs and funding specifically designed to help Alaska grow its economy and to build infrastructure projects that align with acceptable modern standards.” ###
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Sullivan Congratulates Mitch Seavey on Iditarod Win Sterling, AK Musher Wins 45th Iditarod in Record Time WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today offered congratulations to Mitch Seavey and his team on winning the 45th Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race. “For six years going, the Seaveys have led the pack in the Last Great Race, a proud distinction for this revered Alaska family,” said Senator Sullivan. “I’m sure Dallas isn’t excited to see his impressive three-year winning streak and all-time speed record come to an end, but he must be very proud that his dad was the one to do it. Congratulations, Mitch and team, on a record-breaking Iditarod victory! Best wishes to the remaining mushers and teams making their way to Nome.” Mitch Seavey crossed the finish line in Nome at 3:40pm AKT with 11 dogs. He completed the race in 8 days, 3 hours and 40 minutes. # # #
03.10.2017	03.10.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Glen Hanson WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor in recognition of Glen Hanson, a longtime volunteer with the Iditarod Air Force who is currently assisting with the logistics of the 45th Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race. Hanson was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO GLEN HANSON Mr. President, I have been coming down to the floor for the past several months recognizing Alaskans who make our State great and our country better for all of us. I really enjoy doing this because it gives me an opportunity to share the excellent work my citizens are doing in their communities. It also gives me a few minutes to highlight to all my colleagues here in the Senate--and to some of those Americans who might be watching at home--to talk a little bit more about the unique place I call home and am honored to serve and represent in the Senate. This week, I would like to honor pilot Glen Hanson, who is right now somewhere flying above racing sled dogs in the far north in Alaska, literally as we speak. Before I get to how he is helping Alaskans and how he is this week's Alaskan of the Week, let me take you back through a remarkable bit of history that happened in Nome, AK, in 1925, when a diphtheria serum was desperately needed for the children in Nome. The nearest batch of serum was 1,000 miles away in Anchorage, AK. There weren't--and still aren't--any roads that connect Nome to Anchorage. There was very challenging winter weather during this time, so no airplanes could fly. In fact, the nearest train station was over 700 miles away from Nome, so people traveled mostly by dog sled. On the night of January 27, 1925, musher “Wild Bill” Shannon tied a 20-pound package of serum wrapped in protective fur around his sled. He and his nine dogs started the journey called then the “Great Race of Mercy” across the frozen Alaska land. Miles later, he met up with another racer and another team of dogs, and the relay continued all across Alaska, over 1,000 miles--20 mushers and 150 sled dogs--through some of the world's most rugged terrain and some of the world's most brutal weather. In fact, right now in parts of Alaska where the Iditarod is happening, it is 40 to 50 below zero. That original race, the Great Race of Mercy, began to be reenacted, with some twists, in 1973 and continues today. In fact, it is going on right now, the Iditarod, the Last Great Race, in my great State. People from all across the world come to participate in it and come to watch it. It is the quintessential Alaskan event that involves the work of hundreds of Alaskans, lodge owners, veterinarians, dogs, dog handlers, volunteers, pilots--hundreds, thousands. Alaska, as you might know, is home to more veterans per capita than any other State, but we are also home to more pilots per capita than any other State. Our pilots are a vital part of our economy and transportation, and they are a vital part of the Iditarod. In fact, the race couldn't exist without them. Every year, more than a dozen volunteer pilots load their planes for the Iditarod race with more than 100,000 pounds of dog food, hundreds of bales of hay, and lumber for tents. They fly the veterinarians, the judges, the dog handlers, and so many of the volunteers out to the checkpoints hundreds of miles away. We call them the Iditarod Air Force, and every one of them deserves recognition. That gets me back to Anchorage resident Glen Hanson, who is our Alaskan of the Week. Glen, along with his brother Bert, is tied among this year's pilots as the longest serving volunteer in the Iditarod Air Force. He began volunteering for the Last Great Race--the Iditarod Air Force--in 1984. Glen has since put in roughly 1,500 hours of volunteer time, making sure that the Last Great Race continues and that the dogs and the mushers are taken care of--taken care of right now in 40 to 50 below zero, as this race is going on. This year, Glen won the Alaska Air Carriers Association Iditarod Humanitarian Service Award. Upon receiving it, the Air Carriers Association wrote to Glen: “You are obviously an accomplished pilot held in high regard by your peers. While there are many volunteers working to make the race possible, you consistently go above and beyond the call of duty. You are always quietly willing to take every assignment, no matter how unglamorous or uncomfortable. You step up time after time to fly in the challenging air strips to ensure that the musher supplies and race personnel are available to keep the race safe.” Thank you, Glen, for all you do to keep our great Alaska history alive. And thanks to all the pilots in the Iditarod Air Force this year and so many of the other volunteers who keep everybody safe--and are doing it right now during this year's Iditarod. And to all the mushers and these great dogs, good luck. Everyone involved makes this truly the last great race in America. # # #
03.09.2017	03.09.17 Sullivan Congratulates Repsol and Armstrong Oil & Gas on North Slope Discovery WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today regarding Repsol and Armstrong Oil & Gas’s recent discovery on the North Slope of Alaska, which the companies report is the largest U.S. onshore oil discovery in 30 years. “Today’s news underscores why I remain optimistic about Alaska’s economic future despite the challenges we face. As I said last month in my address to the Legislature, ‘the responsible development of our world-class resources is the cornerstone of Alaska's economy and our future.’ “As Alaska’s former DNR commissioner, we worked closely with Alaska’s Legislature to establish policies that encouraged additional investment and exploration on the North Slope. These policies are now bearing fruit. I believe that this announcement – with the state working together as a partner with Congress, the new administration, and the private sector – could usher in a new renaissance of economic growth and job creation in Alaska.” ###
03.08.2017	03.08.17 Sullivan, Murkowski Comment on Meeting With President Trump WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan (both R-AK) issued the following statement after an hour-long meeting with President Trump and Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke at the White House this afternoon. The group discussed a wide array of issues important to Alaska. “We had a productive meeting with President Trump and Secretary Zinke today, discussing everything from a road for King Cove and fisheries to national security, responsible resource development, and reigniting economic growth in Alaska. We also discussed Alaska’s strategic location and the importance of Alaska’s military forces to America’s national security. It was a great opportunity for us to explain the challenges facing Alaska, particularly access to our lands, waters, and resources, and to start talking about real solutions. Since the federal government controls more than 60 percent of Alaska’s land, it’s imperative that we move away from the direction of the previous administration --- unilateral decisions that locked up our federal areas --- and instead partner to increase energy production, mineral development, and timber harvesting. Given the state of our economy and our budget, now is the time to recognize these opportunities and empower Alaskans.” # # #
03.07.2017	03.07.17 Senator Sullivan Joins Veterans Jobs Caucus WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) announced today that he will serve as a co-chair of the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus for the 115th Congress. Originally founded by Representatives Jeff Denham (R-CA) and Tim Walz (D-MN), and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), the caucus aims to shed light on the challenges Active Duty, Reserve and Guard members face as they transition to civilian life. “Veterans and members of our military pick up many incredible skill sets during their service in the armed forces,” said Sen. Sullivan. “Unfortunately, upon returning home and transitioning back into civilian life, their valuable skills sometimes go untapped or unrecognized by prospective employers. As co-chair of the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus, I remain committed to working with veteran service organizations, federal agencies and private sector employers to help our veterans secure jobs and succeed at them. I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues in this bipartisan, bicameral caucus.” “While we can never fully repay the men and women who fought for our freedoms, we have a responsibility as leaders to ensure that our veterans are taken care of,” said Rep. Denham. “I’m proud to welcome Senator Sullivan, a veteran himself, as a co-chair of the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus and look forward to working together to assist and empower the servicemembers who bravely wore the cloth of this nation.” “It is my pleasure to welcome Senator Dan Sullivan as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus,” said Rep. Walz. “I know Sen. Sullivan to be a powerful advocate dedicated to delivering results for our nation’s 22 million veterans and their families. As a Marine himself, Senator Sullivan brings the perspective necessary to help our caucus improve the lives of veterans transitioning to civilian life. I look forward to working closely with him as we work to remove and prevent employment barriers that veterans often face after service to our nation.” “I am happy to welcome my colleague Senator Sullivan to the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus,” Sen. Manchin said. “One of the few issues that unifies Congress is recognizing the patriotism and service of our nation’s veterans, and helping them find meaningful employment after they’ve left the military. When we formed the bipartisan Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus five years ago, I said if you want to help a vet, hire a vet. I’m proud of the work that we’ve done to decrease the unemployment rate for veterans, and thankful for the opportunities that partnering companies have opened up for veterans. I look forward to working with Senator Sullivan, members of the caucus and our colleagues in the Senate and the House to show veterans that we value the skills, talents, and abilities of our veterans – and to show that they will always have this country’s gratitude.” The caucus engages executive branch agencies, educational institutions and the private sector to help identify ways to carry out its mission of decreasing the unemployment rate of the nation’s 495,000 veterans (as of December 2015) seeking work. Currently, the caucus boasts 68 members in the House and 35 members in the Senate. To learn more about the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus, click here. # # #
03.06.2017	03.06.17 Sullivan Condemns Latest North Korean Missile Tests HOUSTON, TX – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Armed Services Committee, reacted to reports of four more ballistic missiles being launched by North Korea today. “North Korea is quickly emerging as the most imminent threat to U.S. national security and the global order,” said Senator Sullivan. “Kim Jong-un's single-minded pursuit of a nuclear ICBM that can reach American shores makes the world less stable and the U.S. less safe. We need a new whole-of-government effort, one which imposes increasing strategic costs on the North Korean regime. “At the same time, we have to double down on the most important insurance policy we have right now – our nation's strategic missile defense. My greatest fear is that the American people will, in the near future, wake up to a North Korea that has the ability to fire a nuclear warhead into America’s heartland. When that day comes, we need to ensure that Kim Jong-un knows – without a shred of doubt – that if he launches against our country, not only will he not get through our defenses, but we will massively retaliate. “The American people should have confidence in our missile defense system, yet we must continue to modernize and invest in new capabilities. More advanced kill vehicles, new boosters, and additional interceptors are all needed to keep us ahead of this rapidly evolving threat. The time to invest is now." # # #
03.03.2017	03.03.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Joyce McCombs WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Joyce McCombs, director of the community library in Delta Junction, and recent winner of the Alaska Library Association’s Audrey P. Kolb Public Library Service Award for her “significant, innovative activities” to improve the library and serve the community. McCombs was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO JOYCE MCCOMBS Mr. President, I’ve been coming down to the floor over the past several weeks to highlight my state and the great people who live in it. As you, and everybody in this room, and those watching on TV probably know, Alaska is a breathtaking place. In fact, there’s no place in the world like it. Mountain ranges that seem to go on for eternity. Salmon-filled waters and rivers. Massive glaciers. People save up their whole lives to come and visit my state. And we welcome them. We want them all to come. But, as I’ve also been saying, Mr. President, it’s the people that make Alaska truly special; the Alaskans. People throughout my vast state, banding together to form warm communities in cold climates. In Alaska—where the conditions are often extreme—we depend on each other, sometimes even for survival. Mr. President, today I would like to recognize Joyce McCombs, the director of the community library in Delta Junction, Alaska as the Alaskan of the Week. On March 9, Joyce will be celebrating 30 years as the library director. She was also recently named by the Alaska Library Association the Audrey P. Kolb Public Library Service Award Winner and Public Library Roundtable Certificate of Appreciation for her “significant, innovative activities” to improve her library. That award is named after Audrey Kolb, who is a legend in the library world in Alaska. Joyce has that award, as well as our award. Delta Junction, where she lives, is a beautiful community of about 1,000 residents, surrounded by three spectacular mountain ranges. The community is about 100 miles from Fairbanks, in Alaska’s Interior. It gets cold there in the winter. As a matter of fact, this morning in Delta Junction, it was 26 degrees below zero. And it’s home to Fort Greely, which is the cornerstone of our nation’s entire missile defense, protected by 300 brave soldiers—part of the Alaska National Guard there. For many in Delta Junction, the library—recognized by the Library Journal as one of the best in the state—is the place where people converge and find warmth and community. It’s open six days a week, and it only closes when it gets below 40 below zero. Tough people in Delta Junction. Joyce, with the support of so many in Delta Junction—including Fort Greely, which supports the library—has made sure that this library stays one of the best in the state and in the country. In her words, Delta’s library is “the community living room.” In a small town like Delta Junction, such spaces are rare and, indeed, precious. Joyce brings all sorts of services and learning to the library, including bands, authors, cooking classes—“what the community wants and needs,” she said. Sometimes those needs entail sitting someplace warm and reading a book. Sometimes it means Skyping a spouse who might be serving overseas in Afghanistan or Iraq. Or applying for a job, or getting the right form to file your tax returns with. Joyce said, “We’re open six days a week serving everybody from nursery schools to nursing homes.” One Delta resident told Joyce on Facebook: “(Your) assistance to the literary education of now two generations of children has been an invaluable contribution to our community that will be paying dividends for years to come. This statewide honor is only a larger recognition of what we already know here in Delta: that you are a great librarian.” After 30 years as the director of the library, Joyce still loves her job, saying she learns something every day from her patrons. Thankfully for all of us, she has no plans to leave. Congratulations on your award, Joyce. Happy birthday to your grandson, Trek. Thank you, and to the many librarians across our state, and across our nation—for your efforts to provide a warm learning space for all Alaskans. Mr. President, I yield the floor. # # #
03.03.2017	03.03.17 Sullivan Meets with Supreme Court Nominee Gorsuch WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement after meeting with Judge Neil Gorsuch, nominated by President Trump to the U.S. Supreme Court: “I was pleased to meet with Judge Neil Gorsuch and learn more about his views ahead of his confirmation hearing later this month. Judge Gorsuch demonstrated the temperament and mainstream judicial philosophy fitting of our nation’s highest court. His distinguished credentials and stellar reputation are well-known on Capitol Hill, where Judge Gorsuch was unanimously confirmed by Senate Democrats and Republicans to the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 2006. “Like the late Justice Antonin Scalia, Judge Gorsuch has a deep respect for upholding the Constitution and faithfully interpreting the law, understanding that it is not his role to instill his own value judgments in deciding cases. His emphasis on textualism, federalism, and the separation of powers puts him squarely within the Scalia school of judicial philosophy. Judge Gorsuch has also demonstrated a willingness to challenge federal agencies that step beyond their statutory authority. In this regard, his background as a Westerner will be a much-needed element of geographic diversity for the Supreme Court. I believe Judge Gorsuch will make an outstanding associate justice, and I look forward to his confirmation in the Senate.” # # #
03.03.2017	03.03.17 Sullivan Announces Regulatory Solution for Alaska Halibut Fishery WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, this morning announced that the National Marine Fisheries Service will be implementing the necessary regulations to ensure a timely halibut fishery off the coast of Alaska, which is set to open on March 11, 2017. “I am pleased to announce this important news for Alaska’s fishermen. My staff and I have been working to help resolve this issue for weeks, and the urgency of it was reinforced throughout my travels in Southeast Alaska last week, including my visit with the United Fishermen of Alaska in Juneau, and especially during my time at the Chamber of Commerce dinner and community coffee in Petersburg. “Earlier this week I spoke with our new Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross about this issue, and later today I will be speaking with him again to express my thanks on behalf of Alaskan fishermen. "The Trump administration has been clear; they are laser focused on strengthening the economy, and cutting burdensome regulations are a critical part of that effort. But today's news demonstrates that routine measures that empower our fishermen – Alaska's quintessential small businessmen – will proceed as needed so they can continue to deliver a quality product to Americans’ dinner plates, and create the jobs that support our coastal communities." A copy of the rule, which will be published in the Federal Register on March 7, 2017, can be found here: https://s3.amazonaws.com/public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2017-04407.pdf ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Sullivan Statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions is a man of integrity and principle, and I take him at his word that when, and if appropriate, he will recuse himself. Like Attorney General Sessions, as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I’ve met with numerous ambassadors, just like many of my Democratic colleagues on the committee. It’s part of our job. It is unfortunate that Democrats are continuing to try to discredit this administration by attacking the character of Attorney General Sessions. Americans deserve better than this kind of politically-motivated witch hunt.” ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Sullivan Applauds Secretary Zinke’s Efforts to Lift Ammo Ban WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in reaction to Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke’s actions to overturn a final-hour rule by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service which would have banned lead-based products in ammunition and fishing tackle used on Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters. "One of the last actions of the Obama administration was to ban traditional ammunition and tackle on Fish and Wildlife lands and waters based on ‘available information’ instead of sound science, negatively impacting our nation’s hunters and anglers – particularly Alaskans who depend on game and fish for subsistence. Today, on his first day in office, our new Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke, rescinded this harmful and unnecessary order, calling attention to the lack of stakeholder consultation when it was issued. I want to thank Secretary Zinke for listening to Alaskans and others across the country who were outraged by this ban, and look forward to working with him to manage our lands based on sound science and meaningful consultation.” ###
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Senators Urge Secretary Mattis to Create New Asia-Pacific Defense Fund WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI) yesterday sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis, expressing support for the creation of an Asia-Pacific Stability Initiative (APSI) to expand multi-national exercises, infrastructure, critical munitions, and U.S. ground, air and maritime forces in the Asia-Pacific. Facing a growing array of threats in the region, the senators wrote: “We remain concerned with the eroding military balance resulting from a resource-constrained U.S. defense budget, the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) two-decade military modernization, a resurgent Russia expanding fighter and bomber aviation into the Pacific, and a belligerent North Korea wherein Kim Jong-un has detonated more nuclear weapons and tested more missiles than both his father and grandfather, combined.” The senators added: “An Asia-Pacific-focused initiative like the APSI will show both allies and adversaries that the U.S. remains committed to ensuring peace and security in a region that contains the world’s three largest economies, four most populous countries, six of the world’s largest armies, and five of the seven U.S. mutual defense agreements.” Other signatories to the letter include Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and Todd Young (R-IN). A copy of the full letter is available here. ###
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Interior Secretary Zinke WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined 67 of his Senate colleagues in voting to confirm Congressman Ryan Zinke (R-MT) as the next Secretary of the Interior. “Secretary Zinke comes to this job with great qualifications – a trained geologist, a lifelong sportsman, a former Navy SEAL and, most importantly, a patriotic and ethical man,” said Senator Sullivan. “For Alaska’s interests and future, there is perhaps no more important position in the federal administration than the Secretary of the Interior. Secretary Zinke understands that Alaska’s lands are vital to the well-being of our communities, providing for our livelihood, economic opportunity, and cultures. Like the new EPA Administrator Pruitt, Secretary Zinke rejects the false choice between protecting our environment and responsibly developing our resources, understanding we can do both. I look forward to working with Secretary Zinke as he restores the department’s role as a partner with the state, respecting the rights and responsibilities granted to Alaska at statehood.” # # #
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Sullivan Praises Trump Executive Order on WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after attending a meeting at the White House where President Trump signed an executive order that begins to roll back the EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. “I applaud President Trump for his order beginning the review and roll back of the expansive overreach in the WOTUS Rule, which gave the EPA vast new authority over lands across the country, particularly in Alaska. This new order signals a return to the rule of law and prioritizes environmental protection, keeping our waters clean without running rough shod over the Clean Water Act and our economy. I look forward to working with my colleagues and EPA Administrator Pruitt to return to a balanced and statutorily based implementation of our environmental laws.” # # #
02.27.2017	02.27.17 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Wilbur Ross as Commerce Secretary WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm President Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce, Wilbur Ross. “I was proud to cast my vote today to confirm Wilbur Ross as the next Secretary of Commerce. In meetings with Mr. Ross, and through his confirmation process, I have been impressed with his knowledge of many issues important to Alaska – including trade, infrastructure and the need to reform our regulatory system – as well as his own business experience in our state. I look forward to working with Secretary Ross on growing job opportunities for Alaskans and ensuring Alaska’s fisheries remain the strongest and best-managed of any in the world.” ###
02.22.2017	02.22.17 Sullivan Condemns Continued Militarization of South China Sea ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released a statement today following reports that China has completed new structures on artificial islands in the South China Sea for the purpose of holding surface-to-air missiles. “Despite claims to the contrary, China is continuing to change the facts on the ground in the South China Sea,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Building two dozen structures designed to house surface-to-air missiles clearly violates China’s previous promises not to militarize this vital region, where $5.3 trillion of trade – $1.2 trillion of it from the U.S. – passes each year. The U.S. military should continue to fly, sail and operate in the South China Sea, and everywhere else international law allows. China’s attempts to restrict access to this critical region should not be tolerated by the U.S. or our allies.” # # #
02.20.2017	02.20.17 Sullivan Statement on Lt. General McMaster as National Security Adviser ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today on President Trump’s appointment of Lt. General H.R. McMaster as National Security Adviser. “I am very encouraged by President Trump’s selection of Lt. General H.R. McMaster as National Security Adviser. I’ve known Lt. Gen. McMaster for many years, including having served under him as a Marine Corps Major when he was in charge of the Joint Strategic Assessment Team at U.S. Central Command in 2009. He is an innovative and strategic thinker and operator. He clearly understands the importance of bringing all instruments of American power – military, economic, diplomatic, energy and private sector – to bear on our nation’s national security challenges. That kind of experience and knowledge will be critical in his role as President Trump’s National Security Adviser.” ###
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Scott Pruitt as EPA Administrator WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined 51 of his colleagues in voting to confirm Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as the next administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. “Over the past eight years, Alaskans and all Americans have witnessed the EPA, under the leadership of Gina McCarthy, acting well outside the bounds of its legal authority, and with a disregard for the input of states and individuals impacted by its regulations,” said Senator Sullivan. “Attorney General Pruitt understands that the EPA needs a serious course correction – that it must get back to listening to the states and respecting the rule of law, and most importantly, regaining the trust of the American people. He has committed to administering the environmental protection laws passed by Congress faithfully, without acting as an impediment to economic growth and opportunity for our citizens. Scott Pruitt is the right person with the right qualifications to lead the EPA, and I look forward to working with him in his new role to protect Alaska’s clean air and water, and the interests of everyone in our state.” # # #
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Sullivan Statement on Mike Dubke as White House Communications Director WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today on President Trump’s appointment of Mike Dubke to be White House Communications Director. “I couldn’t think of a better choice for White House Communications Director than Mike Dubke,” said Senator Sullivan. “Over the past few years, he has been a trusted advisor of mine, and is a seasoned communicator with more than 25 years of experience in Washington, DC advancing a conservative, pro-growth agenda. Often working behind the scenes, Mike lets the principals deliver the winning message and earn the credit. No doubt, Mike knows Alaska and his experience will make him a tremendous asset to the Trump administration.” ###
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Sullivan Comments on House Passage of Resolution to Reverse Harmful U.S. Fish and Wildlife Management Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today applauded the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage of H.J. Res. 69, a joint resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to overturn an August 2016 final rule issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that significantly undermines public participation and restricts the state’s ability to manage fish and wildlife on federal refuge lands in Alaska. “This unlawful and unprecedented Fish and Wildlife rule stands out as a prime example of why having the Congressional Review Act is so important,” said Senator Sullivan. “Specifically, the rule undercuts meaningful public participation in refuge management decisions, utterly disregards the legal protections and rights given to the state in the Alaska Statehood Act and ANILCA, and upends the cooperative relationship that has existed between federal agencies and the state for years. I applaud Congressman Don Young’s work to pass this resolution with overwhelming support in the House, and I look forward to working with Senator Murkowski and my Senate colleagues to invalidate this overreaching rule and restore the sovereignty of Alaska in managing fish and wildlife on our lands.” The Congressional Review Act gives Congress the ability to disapprove of new federal regulations issued by an administration through an expedited legislative process that requires a simple majority in both the House and Senate, and the President’s signature. # # #
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Sullivan Thanks Gov. Walker for Opioid Disaster Declaration WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today thanked Alaska Governor Bill Walker and Alaska Health and Social Services Commissioner Val Davidson for declaring a state emergency yesterday in response to the epidemic of opioid addiction in the state. “I want to thank Governor Walker and Commissioner Davidson for their state disaster declaration, which will put significant resources forward to combat the opioid epidemic harming too many families and communities across Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “All stakeholders – federal, state, local – must work together to advance efforts for prevention, emergency response, and treatment as well as reduce the stigma attached to addiction. I look forward to working with the Overdose Response Program and the many other programs and associations throughout the state combatting addiction of any kind.” In October of 2015, eight Alaska women who had struggled with addiction visited with Senator Sullivan in his Washington, DC office, and served as the inspiration for the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis. Last August, Senator Sullivan hosted the Summit, which featured the U.S. Surgeon General and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Deputy Secretary. Since then, the U.S. Senate, with the support of Senator Sullivan, has passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), and the 21st Century Cures Act–which included $1 billion over two years for states to combat the opioid crisis. Senator Sullivan has also had multiple meetings with former and incoming high ranking officials within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and remains dedicated to stymieing the crisis through education, reduction of stigma, support for programs like Project HOPE, and expansion of accessibility to treatment. # # #
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Sullivan Votes to Halt Rule Denying Second Amendment Rights to Citizens with Disabilities WASHINGTON, DC--Today Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) voted to rescind an Obama administration rule that requires the Social Security Administration (SSA) to report to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System anyone who receives benefits for certain disabilities and who the SSA believes needs a representative payee to help manage these benefits. Under the rule – which was issued during President Obama’s final days in office – some Social Security recipients face the loss of their Second Amendment rights without notice or due process. “The Obama administration’s rule, promulgated during the last days of the administration, unlawfully strips away Second Amendment rights, without due process, from law-abiding citizens,” Senator Sullivan said. “The rule also shamefully and unfairly stigmatizes certain disabilities, which is why it is opposed by a broad coalition of mental health advocates. We need to combat gun violence by putting more police on the streets and increasing prosecutions and penalties for gun violence. But we cannot deny constitutional rights to law-abiding Americans with disabilities.” The rule was opposed by numerous disability-rights groups, including the National Coalition for Mental Health Recovery, the American Association of People with Disabilities, and the National Council on Disability — the non-partisan, independent federal agency charged with advising the president and Congress on policies that affect people with disabilities. It was also opposed by the ACLU. ###
02.12.2017	02.12.17 Sullivan Statement on North Korea’s Ballistic Missile Test ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today regarding North Korea's ballistic missile test: “Yesterday’s missile test by North Korea - and the two recent tests by Iran - are just the latest reasons why the U.S. needs to invest in a much stronger missile defense system. Both of these rogue nations aspire to have nuclear weapons that they can use to threaten American cities. When, not if, the unstable leaders of North Korea and Iran get this capability, the American people will need to know that the Congress saw this coming and that we have a robust missile defense system that will keep us safe and serve as a vital insurance policy against nuclear threats from rogue nations. The costs and benefits of a comprehensive missile defense system demand action now. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as well as the Trump administration, on this important issue.” ###
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: AlexAnna Salmon WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of AlexAnna Salmon, of Igiugig, a leader and advocate for pioneering new efforts to better her community and ensure access to a sustainable supply of food and energy. Salmon was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO ALEXANNA SALMON Madam President, these past few weeks I have had the opportunity to come to the floor to recognize truly exceptional Alaskans—those who dedicate their time, energy and talent to strengthening our communities and making Alaska a truly extraordinary place to call home. My colleagues here, those in the gallery, and those watching on TV might know Alaska for its natural wonders. We certainly have those in spades. We want you all to come visit. It will be a life changing experience, I promise. But for those of us who live there, community is everything. Living in one of the most magnificent places on Earth also has challenges. We depend on each other, our traditional knowledge, our ingenuity and our determination to overcome those challenges, particularly as a community. Madam President, today, I’d like to transport you to the village of Igiugig in Southwest Alaska and introduce you to an amazing young woman who is truly making a difference in her community: AlexAnna Salmon, who is our Alaskan of the Week. First, a little bit about where she lives: Rich in Alaska Native traditions, her village is home to around 70 year-round residents, growing to more than 200 in the summer months. The name “Igiugig” comes from a Yupik word meaning “like a throat that swallows water.” It’s referring to the location of the village, which sits where the Kvichak River meets Lake Iliamna. Western Alaska has been home to thriving, sustainable communities for millennia. But rising energy costs and overregulation have put the future of many of these communities at risk. In fact, many of these communities, particularly in rural Alaska, face some of the highest energy costs in the country. This is a bit of a cruel irony given how resource-rich Alaska is. But in typical Alaska fashion, this village, facing these energy challenges, comes together as a community to embrace new technologies and new ways to address these challenges. And at the forefront of this rural revolution in sustainable communities is our Alaskan of the Week, AlexAnna Salmon. Raised in Igiugig, AlexAnna has emerged as a leader in her community and now serves as the Village Council President. She’s had that position since just after graduating cum laude from Dartmouth College in 2008 with a double major in Native American Studies and Anthropology. While at Dartmouth, she won a prestigious writing award for her senior thesis on life in her village. When she was done with college, she, along with her sister, came back to her village to raise her family. In her words, “I felt that I had the greatest childhood here in Igiugig. This is where our kids need to be raised.” She wants their childhood experiences to be as great, or even better, and meaningful as hers. To keep her community thriving, particularly with these energy challenges, and to make it an even better place for the next generation—she encourages healthy lifestyles, helps improve local infrastructure and works tirelessly toward ensuring that the people in her village have a sustainable source of food and energy. AlexAnna has overseen the establishment of community farms and gardens, wind turbines, solar collectors, centralized recycling, building upgrades, weatherization and, most recently, helped launch a very exciting hydro project. For her dedication to the well-being of her community—and to all Alaskans—and for tackling unique challenges with both creativity and determination, for making the impossible in some of the most extreme parts of our country in terms of rural living seem possible, AlexAnna Salmon is the Alaskan of the Week. Congratulations, AlexAnna, and thank you. Your dedication epitomizes what it means to be an Alaskan, honoring the traditions of our past and seizing the opportunities here and now to provide for a bright future. Madam President, I yield the floor. ###
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Gardner, Sullivan React to President Trump’s Conversation with Chinese President Xi Jinping WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statements today in reaction to President Trump’s phone call yesterday evening with Chinese President Xi Jinping. “I am encouraged by President Trump’s recent discussion with Chinese President Xi Jinping, where President Trump reaffirmed the United States’ recognition of the ‘One China’ policy,” said Senator Sullivan. “The Congress has a long history of involvement on this issue, including the passage of the Taiwan Relations Act in 1979. Going forward, the Congress and the Trump administration, working together, should focus on strengthening our existing alliances in the Asia-Pacific, establishing new ones and reigniting America’s economic and military strength in the region.” “I am glad that President Trump spoke with President Xi Jinping and discussed U.S.-China policy and cross-strait relations,” said Senator Gardner. “The U.S.-China relationship is perhaps the world’s most consequential bilateral relationship and I hope that our two nations will have a constructive relationship, but one that does not jeopardize U.S. interests or the interests of our allies. The United States should continue to meet its legally-binding commitments to our friend and ally Taiwan, as enshrined in the Taiwan Relations Act, and take determined steps against China’s aggression in the East and South China Seas, including routine enforcement of our navigation and overflight rights in the global commons. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to strengthen our partnerships and U.S. leadership in the Asia-Pacific region.” ###
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Senator Sullivan Meets with Japanese Prime Minister Abe WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement today after meeting with the Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe. “I was honored to once again meet with Prime Minister Abe. We had a constructive conversation today about deepening the military, economic and trade, as well as energy relationship between our two countries. I highlighted Alaska’s longstanding role as a reliable supplier of LNG to Japan for over 40 years. “Prime Minister Abe is a once-in-a-generation leader who is leading his country into a safer and more prosperous Asia-Pacific. I look forward to working with him and his administration on strengthening U.S. military, economic and energy ties that benefit both of our nations, and Alaska.” ###
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Sessions as Attorney General WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in support of President Trump’s nominee for Attorney General of the United States, Jeff Sessions: “I was pleased to vote for Senator Jeff Sessions to be our next U.S. Attorney General. Senator Sessions is an outstanding public servant who has worked tirelessly for decades for his constituents in Alabama and for all Americans across the country. Senator Sessions’ colleagues know him as a man of integrity and principle. I am confident that he will uphold the laws of the land and will be a fierce advocate for the rule of law and defending our Constitution. I look forward to working with him in reestablishing constitutional principles that have deteriorated under the former Administration.” # # #
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Sullivan Welcomes Japanese Prime Minister Abe to U.S. WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today welcomed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on the eve of his visit to the United States, and spoke on the Senate floor regarding the importance of America’s alliances to national and global security. “Our alliances are one of the most important strategic advantages that the United States has at hand,” said Senator Sullivan. “We are ally rich, and our enemies or potential adversaries are ally poor. As President Trump emphasized in his inaugural address, America must reaffirm its long-standing alliances and form new ones. Japan is one of those crucial existing alliances, and I look forward to meeting with Prime Minister Abe and ensuring this cooperation and partnership between our two nations continues for years to come. I encourage my colleagues to join me in welcoming Prime Minister Abe.” # # #
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Sullivan Votes to Confirm Betsy DeVos for Secretary of Education WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in support of President Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos. “Today I voted for Betsy DeVos to be the next Secretary of Education. During my meeting with her, I was satisfied that Ms. DeVos truly cares about the education of all of Alaska’s children – both in our rural and our urban areas – and, like me, fundamentally believes that education decisions are best left in the hands of state and local authorities, and that parental involvement is critical. As I said when I announced my support for Ms. DeVos, I received a number of commitments from her about education in Alaska as well as her full commitment to enforce the Every Student Succeeds Act, which passed the Senate overwhelmingly – with the strong support of Alaska’s teachers – and was signed into law in 2015. In the months ahead, I look forward to working with Secretary DeVos as she fulfills these commitments, and to having her come to Alaska, see our schools, meet with our teachers and students, and work to find sustainable solutions that provide high-quality education for all Alaskans.” ###
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Alaska Delegation Introduces Resolution Honoring Denali National Park and Preserve Centennial Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today introduced resolutions in their respective chambers to honor Denali National Park and Preserve’s upcoming centennial. The resolution designates Feb. 26, 2017, the park’s 100th anniversary, as “Denali National Park and Preserve Day.” It reflects on the cultural history of the area, including traditional and Alaska Native uses before Denali was designated as a park, and traces many of the most notable developments over the past century. “Denali National Park and Preserve contains North America’s highest mountain, breathtaking scenery, and abundant wildlife—making it one of the crown jewels of the entire United States,” Murkowski said. “At more than six million acres, the park is also a microcosm of Alaska’s unique history and culture. I am pleased to introduce this resolution with the rest of the Alaska delegation to honor this iconic place.” “One hundred years ago, Charles Sheldon, who, with the help of the Boone and Crockett Club, relentlessly lobbied Congress, saw his dream turn into reality: President Woodrow Wilson established what’s now called the Denali National Park and Preserve,” Sullivan said. “I’m pleased to be celebrating the centennial of Denali National Park and proud to represent the park’s home state. Denali National Park is undoubtedly one of the most treasured parts of our national park system and its natural wonders have provided countless hours of awe and tranquility for Alaskans and for all Americans." “Alaska is the proud home to a number of world-class Parks and Preserves – offering a wealth of opportunity to sightsee, mountaineer and recreate – but we can all agree that Denali National Park and Preserve is the crown jewel,” Young said. “I am extremely proud of the fact that Alaska is home to North America’s tallest mountain, which stands at the heart of the Park and serves as a constant reminder to our state’s own greatness and majestic beauty. As we approach the centennial of the Denali National Park and Preserve, I’m honored to join Senators Murkowski and Sullivan in celebrating this important milestone.” Murkowski is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. A copy of the Senate resolution may be found here. ###
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Sullivan, Baldwin Introduce Bill to Honor Vietnam Helicopter Crews WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) introduced S. 315, the Vietnam Helicopter Crew Monument Act, which would direct the Secretary of the Army to place a small monument in Arlington National Cemetery honoring the nearly 5,000 helicopter pilots and crewmembers killed during the Vietnam War. Companion legislation was simultaneously introduced in the House by Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV). “The Vietnam War has colloquially been known as the ‘Helicopter War’ due to the vital service of helicopter pilots and crews in fighting against the communist North Vietnamese forces, and their heroic efforts evacuating thousands of Americans and Vietnamese before the fall of Saigon,” said Senator Sullivan. “More than 40 years have passed since the end of the Vietnam War, and it is time for family members of these fallen heroes to have a place to come and pay their respects. The proposed five-foot-by-one-foot memorial – funded with private donations – is an appropriate addition to Arlington National Cemetery, especially considering it represents the sacrifice of so many thousands of fallen service members.” “Throughout the Vietnam War, brave and courageous helicopter crew members made incredible sacrifices. I’m proud to work across party lines with Senator Sullivan and alongside Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Bob Hesselbein of Wisconsin to respect this selfless service from our veterans,” said Senator Baldwin. “Our Vietnam veterans and their families have earned this recognition and they deserve to be properly honored at Arlington National Cemetery.” “It is time to honor the thousands who died operating helicopters in the Vietnam War, and this bill will place a suitable memorial where it belongs—Arlington National Cemetery,” said Bob Hesselbein, Legacy Committee Chairman of the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association. “Some forty years after the end of the war, the thousands who died operating helicopters in the Vietnam War will finally be recognized for their devotion, persistent courage, and ultimate sacrifice in what is called, ‘The Helicopter War.’ We are grateful for this legislation.” The proposal was submitted by the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association (VHPA). The VHPA has agreed to fund the construction and installation costs of the monument. In addition to Senators Sullivan and Baldwin, cosponsors include Sen. John Boozman (R-AR), Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR), Sen. Angus King (I-ME), Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV), Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH). # # #
02.03.2017	02.03.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Andrew Kurka WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Andrew Kurka of Palmer, a world-class Alaskan Paralympic skier who recently won his first World Championship at a race in Tarvisio, Italy. Kurka was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO ANDREW KURKA Mr. President, in the last few weeks I have come to the floor to recognize an exceptional Alaskan--someone who spends time giving back to our community by sharing their time and talents up north. There are thousands of these people, of course, in my great State, and I would love to recognize every single one of them. They do so much for all of us. We Senators are not humble about our States. I certainly believe my State is the most beautiful place in America. It is probably the most beautiful place in the world. I ask anyone who is watching to come visit us, you will love it--guaranteed. It is the people that make my State so special--kind, generous people, full of rugged determination, full of patriotism, full of compassion. Many of them are willing to go the extra mile, literally, in some of the most difficult terrain and extreme conditions of the world to help friends and neighbors and use their strength and skills to inspire us all. I wish to tell you a little bit about Andrew Kurka, an extraordinary Alaskan from Palmer, which is a beautiful community about 45 miles outside of Anchorage. In his younger years, Andrew was a wrestler. He put his heart into it. For his efforts, he was very successful. He was a six-time Alaska State champion in freestyle and Greco-Roman wrestling. When he was 13, he suffered a spinal cord injury in a four-wheeler accident. His physical therapist urged him to keep going, to keep trying, to stay active, and actually paid for his first skiing lesson with a group called Challenge Alaska, a nonprofit Paralympic sports club. According to an article in the Alaska Dispatch News, Andrew is ``willing to give just about anything a try--bodybuilding, water-skiing, ultra-marathon, handcycling.'' He even raced in the Arctic Man ski and snow machine race in Alaska--a race that is not for the faint of heart. It is one tough race. It is in sit skiing where he truly excels. He has been a longtime member of the U.S. Paralympic team and has won numerous medals. Just last month, he won three medals, including the Gold for the men's downhill race at the World Para Alpine Championships in Italy--the Gold for the whole world. His accomplishments are amazing enough, but his willingness to serve and be a role model for others is what makes him a true Alaska treasure. He is involved in numerous organizations for great causes, and he travels all across Alaska and the country, visiting with children with medical problems and urging them to dream big the way he has. “I have spent my life hoping to be an example to others,” Andrew said. “Having the chance and being put in a position where I can make a difference means the world to me.” That is Andrew. For his determination against all odds, for his accomplishments, for his compassion, and for making the United States and Alaska proud last month in Italy at the World Para Alpine Championships, Andrew Kurka is this week's Alaskan of the Week. Congratulations, Andrew, from all of your supporters. You are a great inspiration to all of us. I yield the floor. ###
02.03.2017	02.03.17 Sullivan Statement on Iran Sanctions WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Treasury announced new sanctions against Iran: "I applaud the Trump administration’s announcement today that new sanctions will be placed against Iran," said Senator Sullivan. "Since the signing of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the Iranian regime has been intent on undermining it at every turn, and yet none of the P5+1 countries – including the United States under the Obama administration – have called Iran out on these and other violations of UN Security Council Resolution 2231 and the JCPOA. The recent ballistic missile tests, in addition to the provocative actions against U.S. and allied forces in the region, clearly demonstrate that these penalties are long overdue. “Moving forward, the United States needs to reenergize its critical alliances with Israel, Egypt, Jordan and the Gulf Arab states, all of which languished during the Obama administration due to its focus on placating Iran.” Senator Sullivan recently wrote an op-ed for the Washington Post, urging the Trump administration to vigorously enforce the Iran nuclear deal. Read the op-ed HERE. ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Sullivan, Daines Introduce Measures to Split the Ninth Circuit Court WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Steve Daines (R-MT) today introduced two bills to address failures in America’s system of justice by restructuring the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which, because of its size and scope, denies citizens in its jurisdiction equal access to justice. The Circuit Court of Appeals Restructuring and Modernization Act would split the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals into two circuits: the Ninth and the Twelfth Circuits. The reconfigured Ninth Circuit would then be comprised of California, Guam, Hawaii, and the Northern Mariana Islands. The new Twelfth Circuit would include Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. The Federal Courts of Appeals Modernization Act would establish a commission to study the Federal Circuit Courts of Appeals system to identify the changes needed to be made in order to promote an “expeditious and effective disposition” of the Ninth Circuit caseload. Two prior commission – one in 1973 and the other in 1998 – determined that the Ninth Circuit had an overly-burdensome size and scope negatively impacting the administration of justice for the nearly 65 million Americans subject to its jurisdiction. “The population of the Ninth Circuit is nearly 85 percent bigger than the next largest circuit and covers 40 percent of our country’s land mass,” Senator Sullivan said. “It is simply too large, its scope is too wide, and it has long passed its ability to provide equal access to justice under the law. For decades, rather than address these issues for our citizens – including my constituents in Alaska – the court has used short-cuts to manage its workload. As a former judicial law clerk for the Ninth Circuit, I saw this firsthand. It’s time we address this issue rather than continue to allow our system of justice to be short-changed.” “The Ninth Circuit is overburdened and fails to deliver justice for the American people,” Daines stated. “It’s time Montanans and other western states had a court system that functions and provides Americans with the justice they need and deserve.” The full texts of the Circuit Court of Appeals Restructuring and Modernization Act and the Federal Courts of Appeals Modernization Act are attached. About the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit: At 64.4 million people served, the current Ninth Circuit is the largest circuit by population, as well as the largest land area. It includes 20 percent of the nation’s population and is 85 percent larger than the next largest circuit, which serves just 34.8 million people. The Ninth Circuit has had on average more than 32 percent of all cases pending nationally. It currently has 13,334 cases pending— nearly three times more than the next closest circuit, the Fifth Circuit, at 5,593 cases pending. The Ninth Circuit has averaged the longest median time from appeal to termination over the last five years at 14.7 months. The next closest was the D.C. Circuit at 11.8 months. In recent years, there has been a bipartisan push to help the Ninth Circuit with its heavy caseload, including a call by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in the 105th Congress for a commission to study the Ninth Circuit. This was the second commission to suggest that changes needed to be made to the structure of the federal courts of appeal. ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Sullivan Votes to Overturn Assault On Coal WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) voted in support of H.J. Res. 38, a motion of disapproval to overturn the Obama Administration’s rule on stream buffer zones for coal mining. The Congressional Review Act allows Congress to overturn regulations that were published in the previous 60 legislative days. “This job-killing rule was issued by the Obama administration without considering the concerns and comments raised during the rulemaking process. What is worse the previous administration failed to meaningfully consult with states like Alaska during the writing of this flawed rule. Instead, this rule created a blanket national regulation that seriously limits the availability of abundant and affordable resources to power the lights and heat our homes in Interior Alaska and other regions across the country. I’m pleased we worked swiftly to overturn this overreaching regulation—promulgated at the end of the Obama administration. “Going forward, we must work together to reduce and modernize regulatory requirements, not create a maze of duplicative, conflicting, and industry killing regulations.” H.J. Res. 38 is now awaiting President Trump’s signature. ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Don’t ‘tear up’ the Iran deal. Let it fail on its own. As a candidate, Donald Trump said he would “tear up” the Iran nuclear deal once elected. Many of us in the Senate strongly opposed this deal on substance — it provides the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism a pathway toward to nuclear weapons inside of a decade — and also on process. The Obama administration sought the approval of the U.N. Security Council, but essentially ignored the constitutional role of the Senate in seeking to finalize the deal as an executive agreement, not a treaty. As a result, President Trump would be within his rights and authority to undo the deal through executive action, particularly as Iran continued to show that it has no intention of abiding by the deal by launching yet another ballistic missile on Sunday. But there is a potentially better alternative than unilaterally disavowing the deal: Let it fail on its own by vigorously enforcing it. Since the enactment in 2015 of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the United States, China, France, Russia, Britain and Germany, known as the P5+1, have, for their own political and economic reasons, studiously looked the other way as at least four key provisions of the deal have been violated. First, Annex 1 of the JCPOA limits Iran’s stock of heavy water — a catalyst for nuclear weapons. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, there are at least two instances of Iran knowingly exceeding its heavy water limit — in February and November of last year. Instead of holding Iran to account for the violations, the Obama administration bought up the illicit material for $8.6 million. Second, Annex B of U.N Security Council Resolution 2231 — which serves as the implementing resolution for the JCPOA and its legal framework — calls on Iran not to undertake any “activity related to ballistic missiles” for eight years. However, Iran has conducted five ballistic missile tests since the deal was finalized. Third, Annex B of the implementing resolution also bans certain individuals from travel to foreign countries. Yet nothing was done when it was discovered that Iran’s Quds Force commander, Qasem Soleimani, who is on that list, traveled to Russia to meet with President Vladimir Putin after the deal was signed. As recently as December, Soleimani was seen visiting Aleppo. Finally, Annex B also states that the Security Council must approve “services, advice, other services or assistance,” related to the sale of conventional weapons. It’s been widely reported that Russia is in talks to sell Iran $10 billion worth of conventional weapons, including advanced tanks, artillery systems, planes and helicopters. Iran has not asked for such approval. No member of the P5+1 has done anything about these violations. Russia is complicit in them; China needs Iran’s oil and gas; Europe wants business deals; and the Obama administration didn’t want to undermine what it saw as a major foreign policy legacy. But Trump’s interest is in protecting Americans and our allies in the Middle East. And that could be done by stating that the United States will abide by the terms of the deal, while also making clear that those terms are already being systematically violated. He could give all the parties to the agreement 60 days to remedy the situation. If they fail to do so, he should take the next step, pursuant to the agreement: reapply sanctions against Iran. The conventional wisdom, as spun by the Obama administration officials who negotiated this ill-advised deal, is that only a re-imposition of sanctions by the entire “international community” would be effective against Iran. But, as so often was the case in 2016, the conventional wisdom is wrong. Even unilateral U.S. sanctions could be significantly destabilizing to the Iranian regime and its economy. I’ve seen this work first hand. As an assistant secretary of state in charge of economics, energy, terrorist finance and sanctions during President George W. Bush’s second term, I served with other senior members of the State and Treasury departments to encourage allies and businesses around the world to quit doing business with Iran or risk secondary sanctions from the U.S. Congress. Working with Congress, both the Bush and Obama administrations were able to impose sanctions that targeted states and individuals who conduct business with Iran’s central bank. We also were able to ensure significant restriction of Iranian access to the U.S. financial system, including those that are conducted in dollars, which need to be cleared through a U.S. financial institution, even if the money isn’t staying in the United States. We also encouraged countries and companies to divest from the Iranian oil and gas sector. Many of our allies only reluctantly agreed to economically isolate Iran, largely due to this pressure. Even acting unilaterally, we still have leverage to put pressure on Iran and the international community to yield results. Our power over the international financial system remains, and with regard to energy, U.S. leverage has increased dramatically. The United States is once again the world’s energy superpower. As such, we could give countries and companies a choice: Invest in Iran’s oil and gas sector or invest in America’s. I believe that most companies would choose the United States. With strong, principled U.S. leadership, others countries will follow. If they don’t, the Trump administration will be able to say that the United States abided by the spirit and letter of the agreement, and it was the other members of the P5+1 who chose to turn a blind eye to Iran’s violations and walk away from the deal. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Washington Post
02.01.2017	02.01.17 VA Nominee Shulkin Commits to Restoring the Trust of Alaska Veterans WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today received the commitment of Dr. David Shulkin to address the deficiencies of the Choice Program in Alaska, to ensure our state’s program on community-based scheduling continues on track, and to visit rural Alaska if confirmed as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. In August 2015, Dr. Shulkin, as the VA Undersecretary of Health, traveled to Alaska at the request of Senator Sullivan, where they held roundtables across the state and held a Senate VA Committee field hearing in Eagle River. “I asked Alaska veterans for their questions and input regarding the nomination of Dr. Shulkin to lead the VA,” said Senator Sullivan. “He heard from them when he visited Alaska as VA undersecretary, and I wanted to ensure that in this new role that Alaskans’ voices would be heard again. It is imperative that the VA restores the confidence and trust it has lost over the years among veterans, and Dr. Shulkin committed to making this a top priority. Dr. Shulkin also articulated the importance of the VA’s partnership with Alaska tribal health providers in delivering care to veterans where the VA cannot. “As one distinguished Alaska veteran described—better than I could ever put it—our veterans are looking for a secretary who will ‘kick ass and take names.’ Dr. Shulkin committed that if he is unable to regain the trust of veterans and improve the system, he should be held accountable and replaced. I couldn’t agree more.” # # #
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Sullivan Supports Betsy DeVos for Education Secretary WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced his support for President Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos. “While I share many of the concerns of Senator Murkowski, after meeting with Mrs. DeVos, she committed to me that she will work with all Alaskans to strengthen education throughout the state, in both public and private schools. She committed to implementing the Every Student Succeeds Act as Congress intended it, without implementing regulations that place the power into the hands of the Department of Education, and supports accountability for all schools as determined by the states. “Mrs. DeVos also committed to supporting funding for the Alaska Native Equity Program, and agreed to help identify opportunities at the Department of Education for digital learning to be brought to Alaskans. After discussing the unique challenges many Alaskans face in receiving an education, she committed to visiting Alaska and working with us to formulate best practices that work for our most remote schools. “Most importantly, she is someone who cares deeply about our kids. She committed to working closely with states and local school districts – which are closest to our students – and return the decision-making process back to where it belongs: with local school administrators, teachers, and parents to ensure that our most vulnerable populations receive access to a high quality education, especially in rural Alaska.” ###
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Following Push By Sullivan & King, Defense Department Advances New Arctic Strategy WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Angus King (I-ME), both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, announced the release of the Department of Defense’s (DoD) 2016 Arctic Strategy. Sens. Sullivan and King sponsored an amendment to the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that required “an updated military strategy for the protection of United States national security interests in the Arctic region.” Such a strategy must include “a description of operational plans and associated military requirements for the protection of United States national security interests in the Arctic region, including United States citizens, territory, freedom of navigation, and economic and trade interests.” “After nearly two years of advocacy and bipartisan efforts, I am pleased that we finally have a much more serious military strategy for the Arctic region,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “While this strategy is not perfect – including a failure to offer how best to counter the common threat it identifies – it is a dramatic improvement from the 2013 version which was more platitudes and pictures than actual substance. I am hopeful that the entire Department of Defense, our new President, and the country will take a serious look at this document and begin to formulate how our country will safeguard our interests, and that of our allies, in this strategically-important region. We are an Arctic nation and with this important strategy, we are starting to act like one.” “This strategy, which is the culmination of years of bipartisan effort, represents an important and necessary step forward in defining our national security interests in the Arctic and finally addressing the capabilities that the United States will need to defend them,” Senator Angus King said. “This strategy, however, is only one component of what must become a broader policy that addresses all of our Arctic interests and it is up to Congress and the new Administration to develop and implement that comprehensive policy in an expedited manner. If we do not, we risk ceding our influence in the Arctic to others who may not share our objectives. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski in this important effort.” The Department of Defense’s Arctic Strategy specifically details “the ways and means DoD intends to achieve its objectives … These include enhancing the capability of U.S. forces to defend the homeland and exercise sovereignty; strengthening deterrence at home and abroad; strengthening alliances and partnerships; preserving freedom of the seas in the Arctic; and evolving DoD Arctic infrastructure and capabilities consistent with changing conditions.” Notably, the new strategy also includes a classified annex. To read the unclassified Department of Defense Arctic Strategy, CLICK HERE. ###
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Sullivan Statement on Nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after President Trump announced he has nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court: “President Trump, in nominating Judge Neil Gorsuch, has selected a highly credentialed jurist with the temperament and distinguished career fitting of a justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. Confirmed by the U.S. Senate on a voice vote to the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in 2006, Judge Gorsuch is well within the mainstream of American judicial philosophy and has demonstrated the judgment necessary to garner the support of Republicans and Democrats alike. Judge Gorsuch’s record reflects Justice Scalia’s legacy of textualism and an ardent respect for the Constitution and rule of law. He is poised to make an excellent addition to the Supreme Court.” # # #
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Sullivan Honored to Announce 2017 Military Service Academy Nominations WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) had the honor and privilege of nominating 41 outstanding young Alaskans to four of our country’s U.S. Military Service Academies for the class of 2021. “This year’s selection of candidates was exceptional – all exhibited the characteristics that will help them to succeed as leaders in our nation’s military: academic excellence, demonstrated leadership, and a commitment to serving their community and nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “Nominating candidates for our nation’s outstanding Military Service Academies is one of my favorite things to do as a U.S. Senator. The backgrounds and experiences of these young Alaskans is humbling – I am so impressed with this field of exceptional future leaders who want to serve their country. It is an honor to be a part of this process.” These nominations allow the applicants to compete for appointments to the academies. Appointments are offered individually by the academies. Senator Sullivan’s class of 2021 Military Service Academy nominees are as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy: Michael Anderson – JBER Grant Barkhurst – JBER Savannah Bassett – Eagle River* Thomas Chandler – Big Lake Micah Foreman – Eagle River* Nathan Guillermo – Eagle River Ethan Isaacson – Anchorage* Elizabeth Kim – Eagle River Brody Lambert – Eagle River Madeline Larson – Wasilla* Kade Leonard – Eielson AFB Andrew Luiken – Anchorage Brady McGee – Eagle River Raymond Metzger – Anchorage Cole Mooty – Eagle River* Cole Phelps – Anchorage Dillon Scarboro – North Pole Emi Siler – Eielson AFB Brynn Sulte – Anchorage* Delana Wesen – Anchorage* U.S. Military Academy: Christopher Bailey – Anchorage Savannah Bassett – Eagle River* Nathaniel Beck – Ketchikan Brandon Brooks – JBER Micah Foreman – Eagle River* Perry Fulton – Fairbanks Bradley Grover – Wasilla* Andrew Hampton – Anchorage Ethan Isaacson – Anchorage* Madeline Larson – Wasilla* Elias Markose – JBER Cole Mooty – Eagle River* Taylor Mulkins – Palmer Dawson Nash – Palmer Kevin “Max” Sargent – Anchorage Gerik Sherrill – Ketchikan* Brynn Sulte – Anchorage* Charles “Joe” Tung – Anchorage* U.S. Naval Academy: Amelia Butler – Wasilla Mary “Katie” Crowley – Palmer Kevin Davison – North Pole Gary Eakin – Kotzebue Ryan Kavalok – Palmer Jeffrey Lautrup – Palmer Fintan Nakada – Anchorage John Norton – Kodiak Cameron Shideler – JBER Delana Wesen – Anchorage* U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Savannah Bassett – Eagle River* Bradley Grover – Wasilla* Gerik Sherrill – Ketchikan* Charles “Joe” Tung – Anchorage* Delana Wesen – Anchorage* *Received more than one nomination from Senator Sullivan Senator Sullivan’s Academy Review Board, comprised of nine members from across Alaska, reviewed the applications and interviewed each of the applicants, and recommended individuals for nomination. Board members include service academy alumni, combat veterans, members of the Alaska Air National Guard, as well as those intimately familiar with the academy nomination process. “I am honored once again by the board’s participation and dedication. They volunteered countless hours reviewing applications, interviewing candidates, and discussing the qualifications of potential nominees,” said Senator Sullivan. “I am thankful for the breadth of expertise they brought to this process to nominate young Alaskans to become the next leaders of the world’s most esteemed military.” Senator Sullivan’s 2017 Service Academy Review Board: Eric Feige – Chickaloon Grace Greene – Girdwood Win Gruening – Juneau Dan F. Kennedy – Wasilla Thomas P. Senter, M.D. – Anchorage/Nikiski Butch Stein – Fairbanks Bill Thomas – Haines Keenan Zerkel – Anchorage Kathlene Rowell – Staff Director for nominations, Wasilla The Alaska Congressional Delegation works closely with one another to maximize the opportunities for Alaskan men and women to receive nominations to the academies. NOTE: The U.S. Coast Guard Academy does not require a Congressional nomination for their application. ###
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Sullivan Applauds Trump Order Cutting Regulations WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) applauded President Donald Trump for mandating federal agencies to cut two regulations for each new regulation promulgated. President Trump’s order reflects the RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act, which Senator Sullivan introduced in August of 2015, and which he reintroduced at the beginning of the 115th Congress. “After eight years of stagnant economic growth, reigniting the American economy should be job number one for the Congress and the new administration,” said Senator Sullivan. “Many economists and experts across the country point to regulations—the size and scope of which continue to increase substantially year after year—as a major factor in our sluggish economy. Regulatory compliance and economic costs are estimated to top $1.8 trillion each year. If it were a country, U.S. regulations would rank as the world’s 10th largest economy, behind Russia and ahead of India. “Since 2015, I have been advocating on the Senate floor for the RED Tape Act, which would cap federal regulations, and give our job creators some relief to grow and hire again. President Trump’s executive order today is a bold step toward fixing the problem of overregulation. To strengthen the order, I hope that my colleagues in Congress will join me in an open and transparent debate about our regulatory and permitting regime, and consider passing the RED Tape Act.” # # #
01.27.2017	01.27.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Eileen Dubowski of Salcha WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Eileen Dubowski, of Salcha, who was recently nominated for the State of Alaska Wrestlers Hall of Fame. Dubowski was recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s new series, “Alaskan of the Week.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO EILEEN DUBOWSKI Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, Alaska is a beautiful State--the mountains, the seas, the glaciers, the wildlife. Most in this room and many watching on TV have seen my State on TV shows, on reality shows. Almost everybody talks about at least someday coming to visit. We love tourists, like the Presiding Officer does. So please come. You will have a great experience, guaranteed. But what makes my State particularly special is the people--kind people, tough people, generous of heart, and, yes, people with a lot of opinions. My State is filled with people who are strong-willed and strong-hearted, creating caring communities in some of the harshest environments in the world. As part of an initiative that I am doing to highlight some of these great Alaskan citizens, I would like to recognize this afternoon Eileen Dubowski as the Alaskan of the Week . She is someone of a strong mind and a strong heart, and she has helped to make her community and our State a better place. Eileen lives with her husband in a cabin in Salcha, AK, near the Fairbanks area. This year, this area of my State has experienced some brutally dangerously cold temperatures. Recently, it was 59 degrees below zero near Salcha. That is cold, 59 below zero. Yet, in my State, people work in such weather, they give to their communities, they reach out and watch over their neighbors. Eileen has been both a special education and regular education teacher for almost 40 years. She is currently at University Park Elementary School. To better communicate with her students, she went to night school to learn American Sign Language. She is active in her church and particularly active in Interior Alaska high school wrestling helping dozens and dozens of students. She has been so involved over the past 40 years in this important activity that she was recently elected into the State of Alaska Wrestlers Hall of Fame. An article in the Fairbanks Daily News-Miner quotes her as saying: ``Wrestling can take any sized kid and they can be successful.'' Congratulations, Eileen, for helping dozens and dozens of kids of all sizes in Alaska and making them successful. She stated: ``When you help each other it makes living up here easier,'' in the colds of Alaska. The same could be said about anyplace in America. So thanks, Eileen, for helping make life easier, for your service, and for being this week's Alaskan of the Week ###
01.26.2017	01.26.17 Murkowski, Sullivan Introduce Four Alaska Energy, Lands Bills Legislation Renames Existing Wilderness, Authorizes Hydro Projects, and Provides Gasline Fix Washington, D.C. – Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, both R-Alaska, this week introduced four Alaska-focused bills. The bills would expand the use of clean, renewable hydropower to generate affordable electricity for Alaska communities, reroute a portion of a proposed gasline in Denali National Park and Preserve, and rename an existing wilderness area in Lake Clark National Park and Preserve. “My top priority as chairman of the Energy Committee is to deliver for Alaska,” Murkowski said. “These bills will boost hydropower projects to help provide clean, reliable, and affordable electricity to our communities, provide much needed flexibility to the Alaska gasline project, and honor the legacy of an incredible public servant, former Gov. Jay Hammond. All four of these measures were in the conference report for our broad, bipartisan energy bill last year, and I’m optimistic we will be able to see them signed into law in this new Congress.” “I am proud to join Senator Murkowski in introducing legislation to support Alaska’s energy future, which includes renewables and natural gas,” Sullivan said. “With legislation advancing the Terror Lake Hydro Project on Kodiak and the Mahoney Lake Hydro Project in Ketchikan, we have an opportunity to bring clean, renewable energy to many more Alaskans. Similarly, one of our bills will help clear a possible hurdle for a future Alaska natural gas pipeline. I am hopeful we can get these important bills across the finish line.” Murkowski and Sullivan introduced the following bills: S. 213, Jay S. Hammond Wilderness Area – Renames 2.6 million acres of an existing wilderness area within the Lake Clark National Park and Preserve to honor former Gov. Jay Hammond and commemorate his homestead on Lake Clark. S. 214, Terror Lake Hydro Project – Authorizes the expansion of the Terror Lake hydroelectric project near Kodiak. This will allow Kodiak and the largest Coast Guard base in the United States to continue to receive reliable, emissions-free energy. S. 215, Mahoney Lake Hydro Project – Authorizes a stay of the hydroelectric license for Mahoney Lake near Ketchikan. This will allow the Southeast Alaska Power Association to consider this renewable project for up to ten additional years. S. 217, Gasline Routing – Allows for the rerouting of a portion of the proposed gasline through the non-wilderness portion of Denali National Park and Preserve in order to avoid populated areas. This will continue to protect the park, reduce development costs, and ensure there are no major federal hurdles for this job-creating project. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the committee to which all four measures were referred after their introduction. ###
01.26.2017	01.26.17 Commerce Committee passes Sullivan bill to modernize the NOAA Commissioned Officers Corps, update Arctic mapping, and bring Fairweather back to Ketchikan WASHINGTON, DC – This week bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) unanimously passed the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. S. 171, the NOAA Commissioned Office Corps Amendments and Hydrographic Services Improvement Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act, will update operations and procedures for the NOAA Commissioned Officers Corps, reauthorizes funding to update and maintain the nation’s nautical charts—with an emphasis on the Arctic – as well as facilitates the construction of a viable homeport for the NOAA research vessel Fairweather in Ketchikan, Alaska. S.171 builds upon the success of S.2206, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention Act, a portion of which was enacted into law in 2016. S.171 boasts a bipartisan group of cosponsors, which includes U.S. Senators John Thune (R-SD), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). NOAA Officers Corps: “Building off the reforms we made to NOAA’s personnel policies last Congress, S.171 would update necessary operations and procedures of the NOAA Corps, and authorize new recruiting and retention tools necessary in today’s modern world,” said Senator Sullivan. The NOAA Commissioned Officer Corps is the smallest branch of the nation’s uniformed services. They fly aircraft, operate ships, conduct diving operations and critical research, and – in times of war – support U.S. military operations across the world. Hydrographic Surveying: “With each passing year, the Arctic is growing in its strategic and economic importance as its waterways become a more viable means of transportation for commercial, recreational, and military vessels,” said Senator Sullivan. “As it currently stands, many regions in the Arctic rely on nautical charts that were last updated after World War II, over 70 years ago. Not only is this out-of-date information a hindrance to our nation’s ability to expand our presence in the region and utilize its economic potential, but also poses a significant safety risk to nearly every vessel that enters its waters, which is why it is well past time to modernize this process.” This legislation reauthorizes funding for our nation’s hydrographic services activities through 2021 and includes set-asides for Arctic specific activities. NOAA Ship Fairweather: “Ketchikan, Alaska is the homeport of the NOAA ship Fairweather, but since 2008, the vessel only passes through from time-to-time due to a dilapidated dock facility,” said Senator Sullivan. “This legislation requires NOAA to draft a Strategic Plan to develop a viable homeport facility in Ketchikan and also provides new financing tools to allow NOAA to expedite the construction. Doing so will cut down on transit time and save precious resources, allowing the vessel to have a greater impact as it completes its important mission off Alaska’s coast.” In addition to S. 171, the Commerce Committee also approved legislation cosponsored by Senator Sullivan, S. 19, the MOBILE Now Act. This legislation will make wireless spectrum available for commercial use by 2020, which is essential as technology continues to advance. MOBILE Now also includes language that lessens many of the burdensome federal regulations that make it difficult for companies to deploy broadband infrastructure on federal land. ###
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Sullivan meets with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Designee Shulkin WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with President Donald Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Dr. David Shulkin. “I made a point of bringing Dr. Shulkin to Alaska in 2015 when he served as head of the Veterans Health Administration to ensure he saw and heard firsthand the challenges facing more than 70,000 Alaska veterans,” said Senator Sullivan. “For many years, Alaska had a system that served as a model for the rest of the nation, but which has eroded in recent years. We need to get the VA back to its core mission of working for veterans and not against them, which begins with holding senior leaders accountable, adapting to the unique challenges of each state, firing bad actors, and making sure veterans receive the benefits they have earned. I look forward to a thorough review of Dr. Shulkin’s nomination in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee in the coming weeks.” # # #
01.19.2017	01.19.17 Sullivan meets with Secretary of State Designee Rex Tillerson WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson. “I had a productive and insightful discussion with Secretary of State designee Rex Tillerson,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “He displayed a great understanding of the importance of America’s global allies and the role they play in maintaining peace and stability in the world. We need to restore the trust and confidence of our allies which has waned in recent years. “Mr. Tillerson affirmed the role energy can play as an instrument of American power and diplomacy, and recognized that Alaska and our abundant, untapped resources are a key to American energy and national security. The Arctic, in particular, needs to be seen not through a single lens, but as a frontier of great strategic importance, and economic and energy opportunity where America can and should be leading. Mr. Tillerson clearly understands this, and I look forward to his swift confirmation.” # # #
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Sullivan Questions EPA Administrator Designee Pruitt at Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today released the following statement after questioning Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, nominated to be the next administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in a committee hearing. “I have enormous respect for Attorney General Pruitt, who spent hours answering tough questions with ease and intelligence. As EPA Administrator, Mr. Pruitt has made it clear that he will uphold the rule of law, and will work with Alaska and all of the states to protect our environment and be a partner in progress, rather than an impediment to economic growth. He committed to work with Alaskans on building much-needed water and wastewater infrastructure in communities lacking both, many of which are in Alaska, and to work to lift overreaching and burdensome federal environmental requirements, including for our fishermen. I look forward to working with Mr. Pruitt in the years ahead to regain some of the trust that Alaskans have lost in the EPA.” # # #
01.18.2017	01.18.17 Sullivan Questions Commerce Secretary Designee Ross at Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate, Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today released the following statement after questioning Wilbur Ross, nominated to be the next secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce, in a committee hearing. “I appreciated Mr. Ross’s sincere resolve to change course with the Obama administration’s record of stagnant economic growth these past eight years – a fact he called the ‘new dismal’ in contrast to the administration’s spuriously phrased ‘new normal,’” said Senator Sullivan. “He also committed to working with me to ensure Alaska’s fisheries – the largest employer in our state and the best-managed and most sustainable fisheries on the planet – are able to thrive and continue to reach global markets.” As a result of a provision Senator Sullivan included in H.R. 644, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, for the first time ever, any new agreements negotiated by the Trump administration with America’s trading partners will include fisheries as a principal negotiating objective. As outlined today by Mr. Ross, the four planks of the Trump administration’s economic policy are reforming the regulatory system, unleashing America’s energy potential, fixing the existing trade imbalance, and investing in our infrastructure. Mr. Ross committed to working with Senator Sullivan on reforming the federal regulatory system so that taxpayer dollars are not wasted on delays and reviews. “The priorities Mr. Ross outlined today are among the same priorities that I have been focused on in the Senate, and ones that will benefit Alaska. I look forward to voting for Mr. Ross’s confirmation, and working together to get our economy growing again, creating good-paying jobs for Alaskans and all Americans, and ensuring that Alaska remains the super-power of seafood,” added Senator Sullivan. # # #
01.17.2017	01.17.17 Sullivan Comments on Private Manning’s Commutation by President Obama WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement today regarding President Obama’s decision to commute the sentence of Private Manning, who was sentenced to 35 years in prison for stealing U.S. government secrets and providing them to Wikileaks: “In recent weeks, we’ve seen stern condemnations and tough talk from President Obama regarding cyber-attacks against America and our intelligence community. Those words ring hollow today as President Obama commutes the sentence of Private Manning, who, as a member of the U.S. military, was found responsible for leaking hundreds of thousands of classified U.S. diplomatic cables and U.S. Army reports. “This massive leak endangered the lives of our men and women in uniform, other Americans – some under cover – as well as the lives of allies all across the globe. This outrageous commutation, which releases Private Manning in just a few months, is a slap in the face to our service members who do the right thing day in and day out, serving our country with honor. Some are calling Private Manning a hero. I know real heroes – some of whom, unlike Private Manning, did not return from Iraq and Afghanistan.” ###
01.17.2017	01.17.17 Sullivan Receives Distinguished Civilian Service Award from U.S. Army Secretary Fanning WASHINGTON, DC – Secretary of the U.S. Army Eric Fanning on Thursday presented U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) with the Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service Award, which recognizes a member of Congress for their distinguished work in the accomplishment of the Army’s mission. “I would like to sincerely thank Secretary Fanning for surprising me with this incredible honor,” said Senator Sullivan. “Since his time as Acting Secretary of the Air Force, Mr. Fanning has established himself as a well-respected leader within the Department of Defense, and as a friend of Alaska who understands our state’s strategic location, our world-class training, and our warm, military-friendly communities. “Like Secretary Fanning, I am firmly believe that our Army is too small and that it is woefully under-resourced to meet the current threats in our world today. During his nomination and after he became Secretary, I fought alongside Secretary Fanning and U.S. Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley to increase both the size and readiness of the U.S. Army. Our nation needs a strong and ready Army to deter our enemies, and thanks to leaders like Secretary Fanning and General Milley, the Army is back moving in the right direction,” Senator Sullivan concluded. Background on the award The Department of the Army Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service was established by directive of the Secretary of the Army in May 1956. The Secretary of the Army awards this decoration to those who provide distinguished service that makes a substantial contribution to the accomplishment of the Army's missions. Eligible individuals include employees of the federal government, officials at the policy development level, Army contractors, and technical personnel who serve the Army in an advisory capacity or as consultants. The Award reads: For distinguished service as a member of the United States Senate and Senate Armed Services Committee during the 114th Congress. Senator Sullivan was a tireless public servant advancing congressional support for assisting the Army to meet the rapidly evolving threats to our Nation’s security and ensuring Soldiers have what they need to succeed. His advocacy and steadfast support for increased end strength and resourcing was instrumental in ensuring the Army is best positioned to meet the challenges of the future. His exceptional contributions were integral to the Army receiving the necessary resources to support combat, sustain the all-volunteer force and improve the quality of life for Soldiers, Civilians and Families. He vigorously supported Army efforts and worked diligently to overcome the fiscal and political challenges inherent in supporting our national security priorities. His proven leadership, advice, and extraordinary insight into legislative matters produced a record of notable accomplishments that helped make the Army stronger and more resilient. Senator Sullivan’s distinctive accomplishments and unwavering commitment reflect great credit upon him, the United States Senate, and the United States of America. # # #
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Senators Announce U.S. Judge Vacancy Request Names for Alaska Federal Judgeship WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan (both R-AK) seek to identify Alaska attorneys interested in serving on the U.S. District Court for the District of Alaska. This information will be used in recommending to the President one or more candidates to succeed Senior U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline, whose seat became vacant after he elected to take senior status. Consistent with tradition, the Senators have asked the Alaska Bar Association to receive expressions of interest. The Alaska Bar Association will subsequently conduct a poll of Alaska attorneys with respect to the qualifications of all who have expressed interest in serving. This information will be returned to the Senators who will use it in formulating their recommendations to the President. The decision of who to nominate rests with the President. “Alaska has a long tradition of selecting judges based upon merit. The process relied upon by the congressional delegation to identify candidates has resulted in an exceptionally well qualified federal bench in Alaska,” said Senator Murkowski. “I expect that Judge Beistline’s successor will be an individual who respects the Constitution and is highly knowledgeable about Alaska, its history, and the unique Alaska legal issues that often come before the federal courts.” “I congratulate Judge Beistline on his distinguished service to the people of Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “The delegation takes very seriously its duty to identify outstanding candidates as his successor. The bar poll can be helpful in that regard. We commit to finding individuals who follow the rule of law, follow the Constitution and render justice for all citizens impartially. Alaskans deserve a jurist who understands the special circumstances and history of our state. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find an exceptional slate of candidates and a swift confirmation for our eventual nominee.” Those interested in being considered for the judgeship should email or mail a letter of interest, resume, and no more than two legal writing samples to oregan@alaskabar.org: Mailing address: Alaska Bar AssociationP.O. Box 100279Anchorage, AK 99510-0279 Street address: Alaska Bar Association840 K StreetSuite 100Anchorage, AK 99501 The deadline for receiving applications is February 3, 2017. ###
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Sullivan Honors Alaskan of the Week: Ernestine Hayes of Juneau WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) this week spoke on the Senate floor in recognition of Ernestine Hayes, of Juneau, who was recently named as the state’s 2017 Writer Laureate. Hayes is the first Alaskan to be recognized as part of Senator Sullivan’s new series, “Alaskan of the Week.” “The stories of Alaskans doing good work all across our state should be told, which is why I decided to start this new initiative recognizing one great Alaskan each week,” said Senator Sullivan. “I felt it was particularly appropriate for the kickoff to recognize a storyteller. Ernestine Hayes is a talented Tlingit writer, known for her works ‘Blonde Indian’ and ‘Tao of the Raven.’ It was an honor to recognize her on the Senate floor.” The following is the statement submitted to the Congressional Record: TRIBUTE TO ERNESTINE HAYES Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam President, I want to talk a little bit about Alaska this afternoon. Alaska is a beautiful State. Anyone who has visited knows that. Those who have watched any of the numerous television shows featuring my State know that. We have the mountains that seem to go on forever, fish-filled rivers and streams and oceans, miles and miles of beautiful tundra, calving glaciers. People save their whole lives to take a trip to Alaska, to see the wildlife, to see the bears, the salmon in the wild. There is no doubt Alaska is physically beautiful, but for those of us who live there, the true beauty of our State comes from our people. From our urban areas to the hundreds of smaller towns and small villages that dot our State, we have so many great citizens doing so many great things throughout all of our communities. What I want to do is to recognize some of our citizens and tell their stories. So every week I will be doing that. Every week I will be recognizing an Alaskan who has made a special contribution to our great State and great Nation. For the kickoff of the Alaskan of the Week, I think it is appropriate to recognize a storyteller. Narratives keep the people in my State connected to one another. They keep history and culture alive in our great State. That is what Juneau resident Professor Ernestine Hayes does for us in her writing. Professor Hayes was recognized by the Alaska Humanities Forum and the Alaska State Council on the Arts as the current Alaska State Writer Laureate. The recognition is well deserved. Professor Hayes teaches writing at the University of Alaska Southeast and is the author of two extraordinary award-winning memoirs, the “Blonde Indian,” and the “Tao of Raven.” Her books chart her unique experiences of growing up in Juneau as a Tlingit at a time when Alaska Natives were denied basic rights and “No Native'' signs were common on storefronts. Her career as a writer and a teacher began in her fifties. Living the principle that learning should be a lifetime passion, she graduated from the University of Alaska Southeast--magna cum laude, I might add--when she was 55 years old. In between, she moved to California, where she struggled to find purpose, and, as she put it, she was determined to go back home to Alaska or die facing north. Thankfully, for us, she made it back home. In the “Tao of Raven,'' she weaves in the story of Raven and the box of light. Professor Hayes writes about the importance of giving back to the community. “Although Raven could well have decided to keep light and luster and blinding brilliance for only his own pleasure,” she writes, “he knew that to keep riches to oneself guarantees their decline.'' I congratulate Professor Hayes for being chosen as our State's Writer Laureate and our first inaugural Alaskan of the Week. Thank you, Professor Hayes, for sharing your blinding brilliance. I yield the floor. ###
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Sullivan Named Chairman of Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries & Coast Guard WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced he has been selected to serve as chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard for the 115th Congress. “I am honored to assume the chairmanship of this important subcommittee tasked with oversight of our nation’s fisheries, oceans, marine resources, and the U.S. Coast Guard,” said Senator Sullivan. “This committee is particularly relevant to Alaska, the largest producer and exporter of seafood in the nation, home to the largest Coast Guard base in the nation, and home to more ocean coastline than the rest of the United States combined. I look forward to continuing the bipartisan work of the committee, with particular focus on strengthening our Coast Guard, addressing the threat of marine debris to our coastal communities and ecosystems, and ensuring Alaska’s fisheries thrive for generations to come.” “This is good news for fishermen in Alaska and the U.S.,” said Jerry McCune, president of United Fishermen of Alaska. “We are impressed that Senator Sullivan has come up to speed quickly on fisheries issues and has been effective at building coalitions to pass legislation addressing illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries in the North Pacific. We look forward to continuing to work with him on issues that affect fisheries and our coastal communities and oceans.” The Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard is responsible for overseeing the U.S. Coast Guard and addressing matters that impact our oceans and coasts including: coastal zone management; marine fisheries and marine mammals; oceans, weather and atmospheric activities; marine and ocean navigation; ocean policy and NOAA. In addition to his subcommittee chairmanship, Senator Sullivan will also serve on the Commerce Subcommittee on Aviation Operations, Safety, and Security; the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet; and the Subcommittee on Space, Science, and Competitiveness. ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Sullivan Meets with Homeland Security Designee General Kelly WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, retired General John Kelly. “I was extremely impressed with General Kelly during our meeting today. We discussed the strategic importance of icebreakers, having a heightened presence in the Arctic – including increasing the resources necessary to bolster our lackluster fleet – implementing a more robust border security policy, and combating the scourge of opioid addiction in Alaska and across the country. “As a 45-year veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps and a former commander of U.S. Southern Command, General Kelly has years of experience and well understands the strategy required to tackle organized crime, terrorist organizations and drug trafficking. I look forward to working with him and approving his confirmation.” ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Senate Passes Waiver Enabling Gen. Mattis to Become Secretary of Defense Sullivan Questions SECDEF Nominee at Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today voted for a waiver enabling retired General James Mattis to serve as the next Secretary of Defense. The waiver passed on a vote of 81 to 17. “I believe General Mattis’s experience and insight warrant a waiver enabling him to lead our military during these extraordinary times in which our adversaries no longer fear us, and our allies no longer trust us,” said Senator Sullivan. “General Mattis is uniquely qualified to serve, understands and respects our Constitution, and has the admiration and support of our men and women in uniform, and the American people. I look forward to voting for his confirmation next week.” Senator Sullivan also questioned General Mattis today in a confirmation hearing before the Armed Services Committee. “I appreciated General Mattis today affirming the urgent need to develop a coherent policy – across our State, Defense and Treasury Departments – in response to China’s continued militarization of the South China Sea,” said Senator Sullivan. “General Mattis also committed to coming to Alaska to see our world-class forces and training grounds, and signaled the need for America to reassert itself in the Arctic, a pivotal region where we have seen unprecedented military expansion by Russia.” ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Delegation Introduces Bill to Accelerate AMHT Land Exchange Legislation Will Protect Viewsheds, Provide Timber, Generate Revenues for Mental Health WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today introduced companion bills to accelerate an equal value land exchange between the Alaska Mental Health Trust (Trust) and the U.S. Forest Service. The legislation, which nearly passed last Congress, protects important community viewsheds, local trails, and other conservation values while expediting much-needed timber for local operators and generating new revenues for mental health services across the state. “Our bill protects lands that are worth protecting, provides critical timber to keep our sawmills running, and raises money for mental health programs in the midst of our state’s ongoing fiscal crisis,” Murkowski said. “This is a widely supported, common sense solution that will deliver real economic and environmental benefits for Southeast communities. It is one of my top legislative priorities, and my goal is to have it signed into law as quickly as possible.” “This common sense solution to a specific issue that Southeast Alaska faces is a perfect example of the federal government working cooperatively with local stakeholders,” Sullivan said. “It’s a win for communities and for the federal government, and we should pass this bill immediately.” “This legislation represents a unified effort by stakeholders to resolve a longstanding issue facing Southeast Alaska,” Young said. “Not only does this assist the Alaska Mental Health Trust fulfill its mandate and mission, it also helps protect the region’s timber industry – which is quickly running out of timber to mill. I encourage the swift consideration and passage of this bill.” The Forest Service and the Trust have already agreed to the land exchange in principle. It is accounted for in the Forest Service’s Tongass Land Management Plan amendment, but would take years to execute without expediting legislation. In the exchange, the Forest Service would receive approximately 17,341 acres of the Trust’s “non-federal” land. Much of the land comprises the scenic backdrops of Southeast communities such as Ketchikan, Petersburg, Sitka, Wrangell, and Juneau. Under the terms of the bill, the exchanged lands will be added to the Tongass National Forest and managed to protect the scenic backdrops of the adjacent communities. In return, the Trust will receive approximately 20,580 acres of Forest Service “federal” land that it may use to generate funds to help run the State of Alaska’s mental health system. The Trust will allow timber harvesting on some of its acquired lands to fund its mental health programs and provide “bridge” timber needed to keep current Southeast sawmills operating during the transition to more second-growth harvesting. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and has been a leader on this issue since exchange talks began. She has prioritized the passage of the time-sensitive AMHT legislation and held a legislative hearing on the delegation’s stand-alone bill, S. 3006, last September. Late last year, Murkowski also sought to move the AMHT land exchange bill through the conference report for her broad, bipartisan energy bill, the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016. ###
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Sullivan Keeps Promise to Alaskans: ObamaCare Repeal Moves Forward WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today commented on the ObamaCare repeal resolution that passed the U.S. Senate earlier this evening with his support. “Today the Senate took the first major step toward repealing the Affordable Care Act, keeping our promise to the American people,” said Senator Sullivan. “‘If you like your health care plan, you can keep it. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor,’ the President and those who supported ObamaCare told us in 2009. The law, they promised, ‘means more choice, more competition, lower costs for millions of Americans.’ “That has not proven to be true for millions across our country – and Alaska is ground zero. With skyrocketing premiums and deductibles and one provider left in the exchange, our healthcare system is in a downward spiral. The Affordable Care Act is not affordable for thousands of Alaskans. Doing nothing is not an option. “In this new Congress, I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on an orderly transition that focuses on market oriented reforms that reduce the cost of healthcare without growing the size of government, and ultimately provides greater healthcare affordability and choice for Alaskans.” ###
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Sullivan Questions DOT Secretary Designee Chao at Confirmation Hearing WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate, Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today released the following statement after questioning Elaine Chao, nominated to be the next secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, in a committee hearing. “Elaine Chao is an ideal candidate to lead the Department of Transportation, and I appreciate her commitment to come to Alaska to see the unique challenges and opportunities when it comes to our infrastructure,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Ms. Chao also committed to working with me on significant reforms of the federal permitting system, including stopping the politicization of the process we’ve seen take place during the Obama administration, so that any new major infrastructure investment does not waste taxpayer dollars and delivers projects in a timely and cost-effective manner.” # # #
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Sullivan, Murkowski Keep Up the Fight for King Cove Road Senators Introduce Legislation to Protect the Lives of Nearly 1,000 Alaskans Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, both R-Alaska, today introduced legislation to authorize a short, one-lane, gravel, non-commercial road for the isolated community of King Cove, Alaska. The road is needed to link King Cove to the all-weather airport in nearby Cold Bay and will provide local residents with reliable access to emergency medical transportation. “A life-saving road remains the best and only real option to help the people of King Cove,” Murkowski said. “People have died without it. At least 55 medevacs have been carried out in the last three years alone. The Aleut people who live in this region care deeply for their lands, but are forced to live in fear that they will not be able to receive proper medical care. After years of secretarial apathy, I am eager to work with a new administration and a new Interior Secretary to restore common sense, resolve this horrible injustice, and end their needless pain and suffering.” “For years, the people of King Cove have been pleading with the Interior Department to be allowed to access their land in order to get necessary medical care,” Sullivan said. “For years, they’ve been told that protecting birds is more important than their health and safety. This is unconscionable. I appreciate the work that Senator Murkowski has put into this issue over the years, and look forward to working with her and the new Administration to get this done for the Aleut community and other residents of King Cove.” King Cove is located between two volcanic mountains near the end of the Alaska Peninsula, about 625 miles southwest of Anchorage. The small gravel airstrip in King Cove is typically closed by bad weather for more than 100 days per year. Nearly 40 percent of the flights not canceled are impacted or delayed by wind, turbulence, fog, rain, or snow squalls. By comparison, the all-weather airport in Cold Bay, which is less than 30 miles away from King Cove, is home to the fifth-longest runway in the state and closed an average of 10 days per year. Marine travel in the region is no easier. Local weather conditions often generate heavy seas with waves that can top twelve feet or more. Similar to air travel, this is extremely dangerous for patients and rescuers alike. Further complicating marine travel is the dock in Cold Bay, which requires passengers to climb a ladder after disembarking. Sick, injured, and elderly patients who are unable to make the climb are often hoisted up in crab pots. In 2009, Alaska’s congressional delegation secured the approval of legislation to facilitate a land exchange and life-saving road, which remains the safest, most reliable, and lowest cost option to provide the emergency medical transportation that virtually every other American takes for granted. However, Interior Secretary Sally Jewell rejected the land exchange on December 23, 2013, somehow finding that it was not in the public interest. The Murkowski-Sullivan bill authorizes an equal value land exchange between the State of Alaska and the federal government for a 206-acre land road corridor. The corridor would account for 0.06 percent of the 315,000-acre Izembek National Wildlife Refuge and is needed to facilitate an 11-mile, gravel, one-lane, non-commercial road segment that will connect two existing roads within and outside of the refuge. The Izembek refuge was created in 1980. Murkowski is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. She held an oversight hearing on King Cove’s continuing lack of reliable emergency medical transportation in April 2016, and has successfully reported language to facilitate a life-saving road for King Cove as chairman of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee in 2015 and 2016. ###
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Sullivan Statement On VA Secretary Nominee Dr. David Shulkin WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on President-elect Trump’s intent to nominate current Veterans Affairs Undersecretary of Health, David Shulkin, to be Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “As part of his confirmation process in 2015, I invited Dr. Shulkin to Alaska so that he could see and hear from Alaska veterans, and understand the barriers and unique challenges of our state,” said Senator Sullivan. “I look forward to building upon the working relationship he and I have had since his confirmation in 2015. “As the current chief executive of the Veterans Health Administration, Dr. Shulkin builds upon decades of private sector experience, in addition to getting a head start on tackling the bureaucracy currently plaguing the VA. There is still much work to be done. In order to inspire the change that is so desperately needed, there needs to be a fundamental attitude shift in the way the VA serves our veterans, and that means holding leadership accountable. “Alaska veterans should know that I will continue to hold the VA's feet to fire until each and every Alaskan veteran gets the healthcare they were promised and deserve. Our nation owes it to them and I am committed to making sure the VA delivers on that debt.” ###
01.10.2017	01.10.17 Sullivan Meets with Secretary of Treasury Designee Mnuchin WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, Mr. Steven Mnuchin. “This afternoon, I had a productive meeting with Steve Mnuchin, President-elect Trump’s nominee to head the Treasury Department,” said Senator Sullivan. “We discussed several issues of vital importance to our state and country that I have worked on since joining the Senate, including energy independence, regulatory reform, robust economic growth, infrastructure, and comprehensive tax reform. I also appreciated the opportunity to have a detailed discussion on the powerful tools at the Treasury Department’s disposal to combat terrorist states like Iran. I look forward to working with incoming Secretary Mnuchin upon his confirmation.” # # #
01.09.2017	01.09.17 Sullivan Meets with Secretary of U.S. Army Designee Viola WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to become the next Secretary of the Army, Mr. Vincent Viola. “I had a productive meeting today with Mr. Viola. We discussed the continued need for a forward positioned Army presence around the world – but especially in the Arctic and the Asia-Pacific – to respond to aggression from our adversaries,” said Senator Sullivan. “We spent considerable time talking about the importance of Alaska’s strategically positioned Army forces, including the 1-25 Stryker Brigade and the 4-25 Airborne Infantry Brigade Combat Team. I was pleased to hear that Mr. Viola and I share the view that our Army force structure is much too small. If confirmed, I look forward to working with the incoming secretary to not only increase the size of our Army, but also to improve the readiness of our ground forces.” ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Sullivan Meets with EPA Administrator Designee Scott Pruitt WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to become the next Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt. “I have long been impressed with Attorney General Pruitt’s legal analysis and his incisive refutation of the lawless overreach we’ve seen from President Obama’s EPA these past 8 years,” said Senator Sullivan. “And I was likewise impressed today with Mr. Pruitt’s clear vision to return the EPA to its role of reasonably implementing our laws and protecting the environment without needlessly stifling development in Alaska and the rest of the country.” “We discussed much-needed funding for water and wastewater infrastructure, and lifting burdensome regulatory and mitigation compliance requirements. Additionally, I stressed the importance of having the EPA serve hardworking Alaskans and Americans, instead of extreme environmental activists. I look forward to his speedy nomination.” ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Sullivan Discusses Fisheries, Trade with Commerce Secretary Designee Wilbur Ross WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today released the following statement after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to be the next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce, Wilbur Ross. “I had a productive discussion with Wilbur Ross today about the importance of Alaska’s fisheries to our state and national economies,” said Senator Sullivan. “As a result of science-based management and hard-working Alaska fishermen, Alaska is the superpower of seafood. As a member of the Commerce Committee, I will work with incoming Secretary Ross to make sure it stays that way. We also discussed other issues important to Alaska, including trade, infrastructure, permitting reform, and the immense promise for Alaska and America from increased energy production from our state. I was very impressed with Mr. Ross’s knowledge on a variety of issues, including his business experience in Alaska, and look forward to hearing more from him during his confirmation hearing.” ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Sullivan Meets with Secretary of Defense Designee General Mattis WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today after meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump’s designee to be Secretary of the U.S. Department of Defense, General James Mattis. “It’s not every day that I get to have another Marine Corps infantry officer in my office discussing national security issues,” said Senator Sullivan. “During my meeting with General Mattis today, we discussed a wide array of issues important to Alaska and our nation’s defense including Alaska’s strategic location, a robust missile defense, the critical role of the F-35, the need for deeper engagement in the Arctic and Asia-Pacific, and the importance of having a strong network of allies. I look forward to General Mattis’s swift confirmation so that he may begin his work restoring the focus of our nation’s military on their primary mission – to close with and destroy the enemy.” ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Murkowski, Sullivan Introduce Bill to Allow Energy Production in 1002 Area of Arctic Coastal Plain WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, both R-Alaska, today introduced legislation that would allow limited oil and natural gas development within the non-wilderness portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). The Alaska Oil and Gas Production Act, S. 49, would allow development of no more than 2,000 surface acres within the 1.5-million acre 1002 Area – which itself is just a fraction of the 19-million acre refuge. The area that would be opened to development is equivalent to just 0.01 percent of a refuge that is larger than the state of Ohio. “For nearly 40 years, Alaskans have proven that we can responsibly develop our natural resources while protecting the environment,” Murkowski said. “Alaskans overwhelmingly support responsible development in the non-wilderness portion of ANWR and there is no valid reason why we should not be allowed to proceed. Allowing development would create new jobs, reduce our deficits, and protect our national security and competitiveness for a generation.” “For decades, Alaskans of all political stripes have been pleading with the federal government to let us responsibly develop our resources—including the small 1002 area of ANWR,” Sullivan said. “Time and again, our pleas have been denied. This is shameful. Development of this area would be a boost to our state and national economies, providing thousands of good-paying jobs and billions of dollars in federal and state revenue. Because energy can be used as a tool for power and diplomacy, developing Alaska’s abundant reserves would also strengthen our national security. I’ll do everything I can in this next Congress to work with my colleagues and the new administration to at long last allow our state to finally realize its full potential.” The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) estimates this area is North America’s greatest prospect for conventional onshore oil production, with an estimated 10.4 billion barrels of oil and 8.6 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, as well as a reasonable chance of economically producing 16 billion barrels of oil. Due to the lead times associated with development, it may take as long as 10 years for the first oil from the 1002 Area to enter the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS). In 2027, the Energy‎ Information Administration projects that the United States will still import 6.94 million barrels per day of crude oil in net terms, the Brent benchmark crude oil‎ price will stand at $97.18 per barrel, and the world will consume 106.73 million barrels per day of total liquids, an increase of more than 10 percent compared to today. TAPS, an engineering marvel that has served as one of America’s great energy routes for decades, is facing more and more challenges from declining throughput. Closure of the pipeline would shut down all northern Alaska oil production, devastating Alaska’s economy and deepening U.S. dependence on unstable countries throughout the world. Since the ANWR coastal plain is less than 60 miles from TAPS, development in this area is the quickest, most environmentally sound way to increase oil production in Alaska and ensure the pipeline will continue to operate well into the future. Safe and responsible development is already taking place at Point Thomson, which is located on state lands immediately adjacent to the invisible boundaries of ANWR. Murkowski is chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the committee to which S. 49 should be referred after today’s introduction. ###
01.03.2017	01.03.17 Sullivan Announces Committee Assignments for the 115th Congress WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced that he has been selected to serve on four U.S. Senate committees for the 115th Congress. Senator Sullivan will serve on the following Senate committees: Armed Services; Commerce, Science and Transportation; Environment and Public Works; and Veterans’ Affairs. “I am honored to have the opportunity to continue serving on four committees important to Alaska’s interests and to build on the progress we have made over the past two years, now with a new administration,” said Senator Sullivan. “From strengthening Alaska’s fisheries, advocating for our state’s more than 77,000 veterans, highlighting Alaska’s strategic importance to our national defense, and rolling back onerous regulations that are hampering our economy, I look forward to making meaningful progress in the new Congress for Alaskans.” The assignments announced today are subject to ratification by the full U.S. Senate. ###
12.23.2016	12.23.16 Sullivan Condemns Obama Administration’s Unprecedented Abstention at UN ANCHORAGE, AK – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s refusal today to veto a United Nations resolution condemning Israeli settlements. “The Obama Administration’s relationship with our critical ally Israel is at an historic low since the signing of President Obama’s Iran nuclear deal. The administration’s abstention at the U.N. today clearly is an attempt to isolate Israel and furthers the Obama Administration’s policies of catering to our adversaries in the Middle East, and spurning our allies who have stood by America for decades. I join my Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle in condemning this move, which I believe hampers efforts to advance peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. With the incoming administration, we must restore our vital alliance with Israel and once again strengthen America’s standing in the Middle East.” # # #
12.22.2016	12.22.16 Delegation Welcomes Chere Klein to Serve Ketchikan Constituents Delegation Representative to Assist Alaskans in Southern Southeast ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan today announced that Chere Klein has been hired as their Ketchikan Delegation Representative. Klein will serve constituents in Ketchikan and other communities in the Southern Southeast region by helping them with specific concerns and problems with federal agencies and offices. Klein replaces Penny Pederson, who served in that role for 2 years. Klein is a lifelong Alaskan, with deep ties to the communities of Ketchikan, Metlakatla, Wrangell, and throughout Prince of Wales, and as well as experience working across Southeast Alaska. Previously, she served as Primary Legislative Resources Aide and Constituent Liaison for Alaska Representative Peggy Wilson. Prior to her legislative experience, Klein worked as an office manager and licensed insurance agent at Diversified Investments & Insurance, of Ketchikan, and before that as a principal at Wetland Delineation & Design Services, LLC. Klein has also as a board member for the Ketchikan Community Foundation, Ketchikan Chamber of Commerce Transportation Committee, Ketchikan Charter School and Ketchikan Hospice Support Group, among many others. “I’m happy to have Chere join our team. Her strong leadership skills and involvement in the community will be valuable assets to connect with constituents,” said Senator Murkowski. “From being a small business owner, to working in the Alaska State Legislature, and her extensive community involvement, her experience will carry over well as she serves Alaskans in the Southeast.” “Having been born and raised in Southeast, Chere knows the community and the people of this region,” said Senator Sullivan. “Chere has demonstrated a history of community involvement and leadership, serving on many boards and with local organizations for decades. I am confident that her experience and strong relationships in the community will be a major asset to Senator Murkowski and I in best serving Alaskans living in southern Southeast.” ###
12.20.2016	12.20.16 Alaska Delegation Reacts to Stunning Arctic Withdrawal Obama Locks up the Arctic, Denies Economic Opportunity for Alaskans ANCHORAGE, AK – Senator Lisa Murkowski, Senator Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young (all R-Alaska) today slammed President Barack Obama for unilaterally placing the entire Chukchi Sea and the vast majority of the Beaufort Sea off-limits to energy development. The sweeping withdrawal disrespects the Alaskan people, is not based on sound science, and contradicts the administration’s own conclusions about Arctic development. It will have lasting consequences for Alaska’s economy, state finances, and the security and competitiveness of the nation. In making the decision, President Obama yet again sided with extreme environmentalists, while betraying his utter lack of commitment to improving the lives of the people who actually live in the Arctic. Making matters worse, the joint announcement with Canada amounts to an incredibly lopsided trade for the United States. While President Obama’s Arctic withdrawal is indefinite, Canada will review the status of its Arctic waters every five years. With Russian development already underway in the Arctic, it may be just a few short years before our nation is bracketed by activity on both sides and importing the oil resulting from it. “The only thing more shocking than this reckless, short-sighted, last-minute gift to the extreme environmental agenda is that President Obama had the nerve to claim he is doing Alaska a favor,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “For him to suggest to the people of the Arctic that they must rely on a nonexistent government working group and $9 million a year in charity as a substitute for real economic opportunity is a slap in the face to countless Alaskans. President Obama has once again treated the Arctic like a snow globe, ignoring the desires of the people who live, work, and raise a family there. I cannot wait to work with the next administration to reverse this decision.” “This announcement by the Obama Administration is an affront to our representative democracy,” said Senator Sullivan. “Make no mistake – the President betrayed Alaskans today – especially those living in the Arctic – who were not consulted, and instead gave one final Christmas gift to coastal environmental elites. This decision is not about environmental protection or the economics of oil and gas exploration in the Arctic. This is hopefully the last act of a callous presidency, one that lacks any regard for America’s economic future and the hardworking families of Alaska. Presiding over a lost decade of economic growth for America, Obama’s legacy will not be one of transparency and inclusion of affected stakeholders, but instead one of executive overreach at the command of extreme special interests with agendas far removed from and unsympathetic to middle-class Alaskan families and other hardworking Americans.” “Hell-bent on locking away our resources and suffocating our already weakened economy, President Obama is one step closer to solidifying his place next to Jimmy Carter as Alaska’s worst nightmare,” said Congressman Don Young. “Frankly, this is a cowardly move by a lame duck President – eight years to take this action, yet it comes at the 11th hour with little to no support from Alaskans. I’ve been adamant with this administration; Alaska is not and should not be used as the poster child for a pandering environmental agenda. This decision only strengthens our resolve – as a resources oriented state – to overturn the heavy hand of government and empower our people and communities with new social and economic opportunities. The groundwork is already being laid to overturn this terrible decision.” The Beaufort and Chukchi seas together form one of the most prospective basins in the world, with an estimated 23.6 billion barrels of oil and 104.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. A 2011 analysis found that development of those resources would create an annual average of 55,000 jobs over a 50-year period and generate a total of $193 billion for local, state, and federal treasuries. According to a 2014 poll, 73 percent of Alaskans support Arctic OCS development. ###
12.20.2016	12.20.16 Alaska Delegation Seeks Halt to Additional Offshore Withdrawals Requests Meeting with President Obama to Ensure Alaskans’ Views are Heard and Respected ANCHORAGE, AK – Amid growing reports of additional withdrawals that the Obama administration plans to impose in Alaska in its final days in office, Senator Lisa Murkowski, Senator Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young (all R-Alaska) today wrote President Barack Obama urging him to take no further action in Alaska and requesting a meeting to discuss the economic damage his previous decisions are causing in Alaska. “On behalf of the people we serve, we write to seek an appointment with you to discuss federal land and water management in Alaska. Critically, we request that this meeting occur before you make any additional decisions that will harm our state’s future.” In their letter, the delegation cited the Obama administration’s record of locking down development in federal areas in Alaska, which harms the state’s economy, undermines the Statehood Compact, and the security and competitiveness of our nation. “During your time in office, Alaska’s ability to produce energy, minerals, and other resources for the good of the nation has come under direct and sustained assault. Your administration has withdrawn tens of thousands of square miles of our Outer Continental Shelf from energy exploration. You have canceled previously scheduled Arctic lease sales, removed Arctic lease sales that were proposed for the next Five-Year Program, and created a chaotic regulatory environment that appears designed to convince companies to relinquish their existing leases. “Your administration has also locked away half of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, imposed costly and extralegal mitigation requirements on the companies seeking to develop there, sought to turn the Arctic Coastal Plain into de facto wilderness, issued land management plans that replace opportunity with regulatory burden, seized authority to manage wildlife in our national parks and refuges from the State of Alaska, and most recently designated the northern Bering Sea as a “climate resilience area”—a vague term with no legal basis.” The delegation urged the president not to impose any further withdrawals in Alaska, and to instead meet with them so they can speak “openly and directly” about the consequences of his actions. The delegation also called out the President’s decision to focus on new development restrictions, while ignoring life-and-death issues in the state. “These decisions, and others made during your administration, have consistently been executed over our objections, without meaningful consultation, and have drawn widespread opposition from the people we serve. These decisions also come even as life-and-death issues affecting Alaskans – such as the need for a short road for the people of King Cove, who have endured 52 medevacs in the past three years after your administration refused to protect their health and safety – are ignored and unaddressed.” A copy of the delegation letter is available here: Letter_12202016 ###
12.19.2016	12.19.16 Sullivan Comments on President Obama’s Final Stream Protection Rule ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement regarding the Obama administration’s final rule on stream buffer zones for coal mining. “By issuing this rule, the Obama administration is cementing its lawless legacy of failing to consider the concerns and comments raised during the rulemaking process, in favor of pushing its ideologically driven eight-year war on coal. This rule creates a blanket national regulation that will seriously limit the availability of energy to power the lights and heat our homes in Interior Alaska and other regions across the country. I hope that my colleagues in Congress and the incoming administration can work swiftly to kill this last gasp of bureaucratic overreach. We need to reduce and modernize regulatory requirements, not create a maze of duplicative, conflicting, and industry killing regulations.” On February 3, 2016, in a hearing of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Senator Sullivan questioned Joseph Pizarchik, director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement. You can watch the hearing at: https://youtu.be/0OTa1BXTUnY ###
12.16.2016	12.16.16 Sullivan Honors Alaska’s Police Force & First Responders ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor Friday to honor Alaska’s police officers, particularly those who have recently been victims of shootings, including Anchorage Police Officer Arn Salao, and deceased Fairbanks Police Sergeant Allen Brandt. Senator Sullivan also introduced the Protect Our Heroes Act, which would make it a federal offense to assault or kill a public safety officer, with an enhanced penalty for offenders who lure an officer to a location for the purpose of harming them. “Anyone who has seen the news these past few months knows it has been a particularly difficult time for police officers in Alaska and all across the country. They have faced heinous, deliberate acts of violence,” said Senator Sullivan. “As we come together to celebrate the holiday season with family and friends, let's keep in mind the sacrifices being made by our brave officers, who will be on the beat during the holidays just like our military service members—protecting us. On behalf of my fellow Alaskans, I want to express my profound gratitude and thanks to our proud law enforcement community, and to their families, for all they do to keep our communities safe.” During his floor remarks, Senator Sullivan read excerpts from the testimony Sergeant Brandt delivered to the Fairbanks City Council days before he died due to complications related to his recovery. A full transcript of the Senator’s remarks is available here. # # #
12.15.2016	12.15.16 Sullivan Statement on Congressman Zinke as Interior Secretary ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement on President-elect Trump’s intent to nominate Congressman Ryan Zinke (R-MT) to be Secretary of the Department of the Interior. “I’m pleased to see that President-elect Trump chose someone for Interior Secretary from a Western state who has been a strong advocate for energy independence. I also commend Rep. Zinke’s impressive career as a U.S. Navy Seal. “I look forward to speaking with Rep. Zinke about Alaska’s unique land issues – including ANILCA – and how federal government overreach in Alaska has stymied much needed economic and resource development. Additionally, I look forward to discussing the Interior Department’s trust responsibility to Alaska Natives. Finally, I need to have a better understanding of why and to what degree he is against the transfer of certain federal lands to state and private hands. His views on this particular issue are of vital importance to the economy and livelihood of Alaskans due to Alaska’s unique federal, state, and private lands status and laws.” ###
12.15.2016	12.15.16 Sullivan Comments on China’s Increased Militarization of the South China Sea ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today in reaction to reports that China has installed weapons systems on contested islands in the South China Sea. “Despite promises to halt cyber-attacks and discontinue its theft of U.S. intellectual property, and assurances that it will not militarize the South China Sea, China’s provocative and destabilizing actions speak far louder than their empty words. The United States can and should continue to engage with China to the benefit of both of our countries. Regardless of attempts by Chinese leaders to militarize and assert control over the South China Sea – a critical global commerce and transportation route – the United States can and should continue to fly, sail, and operate there and wherever international law allows. And we should be doing so with our many allies worldwide. Freedom of the Seas has been a core national interest of the United States since our country’s founding, as well as a foundational principle of the post-World War II international order established and safeguarded by the United States. All nations, but particularly China, have benefited from this. I agree with and support the recent statements by Commander of U.S. PACOM Admiral Harris who said, ‘We will not allow a shared domain to be closed down unilaterally no matter how many bases are built on artificial features in the South China Sea…..We will cooperate when we can but we will be ready to confront when we must.’” ###
12.15.2016	12.15.16 Sullivan, Booker Amendments to Marine Debris Program Pass Senate WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Cory Booker (D-NJ), members of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, applauded the Senate’s December 10th passage of the Marine Debris Act Amendments of 2016. The legislation reauthorizes NOAA’s Marine Debris Program and provides for a new funding mechanism to respond to clean-up efforts from a “Severe Marine Debris Event” as determined by the NOAA Administrator. Examples of a Severe Marine Debris Event include earthquakes, floods, storms, massive maritime accidents, or incidents such as the 2011 tsunami off the coast of Japan. In addition, this legislation adds the State Department to the Interagency Marine Debris Coordinating Committee and encourages them to engage with the foreign nations responsible for depositing the majority of ocean debris. This engagement would seek shared solutions to marine debris formation, ways to prevent debris from reaching the oceans, and the long-term economic impacts of marine debris. "Alaska's coastal communities have been some of the hardest hit by the waste and garbage filling our oceans, with the bulk of the debris coming from nations halfway around the globe," said Senator Sullivan. "This bill provides additional funding to help us respond to future catastrophic disasters resulting in large amounts of debris. I hope the new Administration will step up to a leadership role in engaging with the major producers of marine debris, enabling us to get a handle on this crisis and protect our fisheries, wildlife and coastlines." “Every 60 seconds, what amounts to roughly a garbage truck full of plastic makes its way into the ocean, and it has been estimated that if we do nothing to address this problem, there will be more plastic than fish in the ocean in terms of sheer weight by 2050,” said Senator Booker. “We do not have a minute to waste when it comes to addressing, researching and preventing marine debris pollution, and I am encouraged that this bill will mark a renewed commitment by the United States to lead the effort in cleaning up our oceans.” The NOAA Marine Debris Program was established in 2006 with the signing of the Marine Debris Research, Prevention, and Reduction Act. The Act was last amended in December 2012. Senator Sullivan, chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a hearing on the topic of marine debris on May 17, 2016 which can be viewed here. # # #
12.14.2016	12.14.16 Senate Passes Sullivan-Schatz-Markey International Fisheries Bill Bipartisan Legislation Will Implement Pacific and Atlantic Fisheries Treaties WASHINGTON, DC – On Saturday morning, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the Ensuring Access to Fisheries Act. The bipartisan legislation, introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Brian Schatz (D-HI), and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), will implement treaties ratified by the Senate two years ago to better manage certain fisheries in the North and South Pacific, and to improve international fisheries management in the North Atlantic.“This legislation will rightfully give the United States a voice and assert our influence in both the fisheries management and conservation decisions in the high seas areas covered by these treaties,” said Senator Sullivan. “Doing so will provide opportunities for our fishermen in the future, and help to protect their current activities for generations to come.” “Nations around the world look to the United States for leadership on how to manage fisheries,” said Senator Schatz. “Our legislation brings the remaining Pacific fisheries under international management, and establishes penalties for fishing illegally. By working together with foreign countries, we can establish global management plans that will keep our oceans healthy and productive for ourselves today, and for the generations that follow. I want to thank Senator Sullivan and Senator Markey for their commitment to keeping world fisheries healthy.”“Fish do not follow political boundary lines on a map,” said Senator Markey. “International cooperation is essential to ensure healthy fishery resources in the North Atlantic and across the globe. I thank Senators Schatz and Sullivan for their partnership on this legislation and look forward to the President signing it into law.” Together with other existing treaties this bill would bring all high seas fisheries in the Pacific Ocean under international management bodies to ensure access for U.S. fishermen, and responsible management of ocean resources. The bill will also implement updates to the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Convention to better manage international North Atlantic fisheries. The bill now heads to President Obama’s desk to be signed into law. ###
12.12.2016	12.12.16 Water Infrastructure Development Bill Headed to President’s Desk Sullivan Secures Provisions Vital to Alaska’s Water and Infrastructure Future WASHINGTON, DC – This past weekend, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) voted in favor of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act of 2016 (WIIN), which includes several key provisions vital to Alaska’s water and infrastructure future, and encourages the development of a future deep-water Arctic port. The bill passed the Senate by a vote of 78-21 and now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Under a provision secured by Senator Sullivan in WIIN 2016, a new water infrastructure grant program for small and disadvantaged communities is authorized at $60 million for fiscal years 2017 through 2021, for a total of $300 million over five years. There are still dozens of communities in Alaska without running water or wastewater treatment facilities. “Our nation’s outdated and crumbling water and wastewater infrastructure is a huge concern for communities all across our country,” said Senator Sullivan. “For Alaska, investment in such infrastructure is crucial. More than 3,300 rural Alaska homes lack running water and a flush toilet, which leads to serious health issues. This is unacceptable. Among other provisions, this bill contains a new grant program that directs funds to such communities. One of my top priorities has been to ensure that the federal government realizes its responsibilities to provide basic infrastructure for its citizens. In addition, I want to thank Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young who were instrumental in helping to secure a number of other priorities for Alaskans in this legislation.” Additionally, the WIIN Act of 2016 includes the following priorities for Alaska: Construction authorization for Little Diomede Harbor for a project totaling over $28 million. Construction authorization for Craig Harbor for a project totaling over $32 million. Arctic Deep?Draft Port: The bill instructs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, in carrying out the feasibility study for the Arctic deep draft port, to consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security to identify benefits in carrying out Coast Guard missions associated with an Arctic deep draft port, and the Secretary of Defense to identify national security benefits associated with an Arctic deep draft port, which may be used as a basis for determining feasibility. Last year, the Army Corps paused the feasibility study of an Arctic deep draft port due to the economic loss of Shell’s withdrawal from the Chukchi Sea. This provision gives another tool to the Army Corps, allowing an Arctic port to be justified based on metrics beyond economics. Includes language to expedite completion of the report for St. George Harbor. Removes federal interests in a portion of land adjacent to Valdez Harbor, allowing local development of this property. Authorizes the Army Corps to maintain harbors of refuge, which was included to specifically benefit Elfin Cove, which has experienced shoaling in its entrance channels, presenting challenges to safe navigation. Allows regional benefits to be taken into account when justifying the feasibility of small, remote, subsistence harbor projects, which will help with project justifications statewide, including development of an Arctic port. Allows Alaska Native Corporations to work directly with the Corps as non-federal sponsors in order to develop water infrastructure projects. Extends the 10% set aside from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for emerging harbors through 2025. Emerging harbors are those transiting less than one million tons of cargo annually. Reauthorization of the Denali Commission at an annual level of $15 million through 2021. # # #
12.12.2016	12.12.16 Sullivan Statement on General John Kelly as DHS Secretary WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement on President-elect Trump’s intent to nominate retired General John Kelly to be Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. “I applaud President-elect Trump on his choice to nominate General John Kelly, a man of great integrity, to be the next Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. General Kelly’s experience as Commander of U.S. Southern Command, where he worked to counter transnational threats and defend the homeland, and his more than 40 years of distinguished service in the United States Marine Corps, will serve our nation well as the Department works to make our country a safer place.” # # #
12.09.2016	12.09.16 Alaska Delegation Slams President Obama’s Latest Executive Order Obama Issues Last Minute Attempt to Lock Up Alaska WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the Alaska Congressional Delegation spoke out against an Executive Order by President Obama creating a “Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area” for over 112,000 square miles off Alaska’s western coast, in addition to withdrawing 40,300 square miles of federal waters from oil and natural gas leasing. “This is the first time we have ever seen the term ‘climate resilience area’ in Alaska or anywhere else,” Senator Lisa Murkowski said. “We have no idea what that designation is supposed to mean, what legal authority it is supposed to rest on, what the limitations for it will be, or what it will mean for subsistence, shipping, fishing, and other activities in western and northern Alaska. To me, this sure sounds like a euphemism for a marine monument, because it locks up over 112,000 square miles of Alaska waters and seems destined to impact a wide range of communities, tribes, and industries in our state. While I strongly support meaningful consultation with tribes, this opens the door to a whole host of unknowns, and could easily be misapplied to block even the most responsible Arctic subsistence, activities, and development.” “Once again, the Obama administration has used unilateral action to hurt Alaskans. This executive order, drafted behind closed doors, unilaterally closes fishing grounds, removes oil and gas leasing, and creates hurdles to shipping, all with the stroke of a pen—without any consultation with the State, Alaska’s Congressional delegation, or public notice, consultation, or comment,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “I will work closely with Senator Lisa Murkowski, Congressman Don Young, and the incoming administration to repair the damage done by eight years of the Obama Administration and to restore the ability of Alaskans to determine their economic future and the ways their lands and water will be managed.” “Thank God the Obama Administration only has 42 days left in office; we will be working to undo this action come January 20th,” said Congressman Don Young. “This is just another example of federal agencies attempting to exert their authority over the Alaskan and American people. Not only does this leave me extremely worried about future economic activity in the region, including fisheries, I see it as a backdoor attempt to limit certain activities north of the Bering Strait – like future resource development. We’ve already seen a costly and overly prescriptive regulatory regime for the Arctic, and this action leaves the door wide open for even more roadblocks and hurdles. Even worse, I’ve already heard from many in the Alaska Native community that this came as a complete surprise – a total contradiction to the President’s own policy on consultation. As President Obama attempts to solidify his legacy as an extreme environmentalist, it’s clear he has very little respect for the Alaskan people and our economic future.” More information on this announcement can be found by clicking here. ###
12.09.2016	12.09.16 Supporting Alaska's Law Enforcement Community and Honoring Sergeant Allen Brandt Mr. President, the holidays are nearly upon us. It is the time when Christmas cheer descends on us, when hearts open and we reach out to our neighbors, friends, and even strangers, particularly those who are in need. Today I want to reach out to the police force in Alaska. These men and women put their lives on the line every day for us, and anyone who has seen the news in these past few months knows it has been a particularly difficult time for police officers all across the country, who have faced unprecedented levels of violence--deliberate attacks. Across our great Nation, our men and women who get up every morning with the mission to protect us are having their lives taken. As of December 5, there have been 134 fatalities against police officers this year alone. That is up by more than 20 percent from last year. Let's face it--they are being targeted. Some of them are even being ambushed. Just a few minutes ago, right here on the floor, the Presiding Officer gave some very eloquent remarks about what has happened in Colorado. These kinds of acts are happening all across the country - Iowa, Massachusetts, Texas, California, Colorado, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and unfortunately more than once in recent weeks in my home State of Alaska. One brave Anchorage police officer, Arn Salao, was a victim of a cowardly ambush in Alaska, but thankfully he survived. The incident resulted in the arrest and the killing of an accused murderer who has now been accused of killing five others in Anchorage. Unfortunately, another officer involved in a shooting in Alaska--this time in Fairbanks--wasn't so fortunate. On the morning of October 16, Sergeant Allen Brandt, an 11-year veteran of the Fairbanks Police Department, responded to reports of shots being fired. After pulling his vehicle over to question a suspect, Sergeant Brandt was shot five times. After being treated for several days, Sergeant Brandt was expected to survive. He even came to testify in a remarkable act of courage in front of the Fairbanks City Council on October 21. His testimony was riveting, but in a devastating turn of events on October 28, just a few days later, Alaskans learned that Sergeant Brandt had succumbed to the complications related to his injuries in recovery. The hopes of our entire State were crushed upon hearing that this brave, young public servant had passed away. Alaskans from every corner of our State held vigils and continue to mourn his loss. There was a memorial service in Fairbanks attended by thousands. I happened to attend that with my fellow Alaskans. It was one of the most moving services I have ever attended. At the memorial service, Sergeant Brandt's testimony from just a few days earlier in front of the Fairbanks City Council was played. There, he was speaking to all of us on these important issues. It was so powerful and so moving to see this young man so articulately speak about issues that don't just impact Fairbanks, AK, or Alaska, but the whole country. Sergeant Brandt left behind his wife Natasha and their four young children under the age of 8. I have talked about his testimony that he gave in Fairbanks that was played at his memorial service, which was so powerful. Only a few days earlier, he had been shot. He gave his testimony, and then unfortunately he passed away. I wish to read several excerpts from his testimony because I think it reflects not only the importance of this issue, but it shows this young man speaking on something that impacts the whole country. Here is the testimony he gave at the Fairbanks City Council. There was thunderous applause, of course, when he walked in--a man who had been shot five times just a few days earlier. He stated: I am humbled by the honor, and I'm no exception to the rule. We have many fine officers that are far greater and have done better things than I have. I do appreciate the community's support and I know sometimes it's hard for officers to see whether or not the city supports us, but I've always said that by-and-large, the city does support its police officers. And you know we're never going to have the support of the criminals ..... and to tell you the truth, they don't have my support either. However, I do support their constitutional rights and their free exercise of them. He continued: I've seen the hand of the Lord in my situation. Can you believe I was shot five times through the legs and I walked into this room. There's a bullet, it's almost healed up, but right here over my heart where my vest certainly saved my life there. I appreciate the support of the community, the Fairbanks Police Department, the Anchorage Police Department, the Alaska State Troopers, and other officers. But our officers do a very hard job, and they need your support. Unfortunately, when an officer gets shot or something bad happens, it's just human nature--we don't think about things that we need until something bad happens. I don't blame anyone for that. But, you know, think about our officers. I've worked for the city for 12 years, probably ten of those years I worked weekends when my friends are off. I work at night and sleep during the day. I don't sleep with my wife. And the other officers, too. I was never called a racist until I put the uniform on. You know, once you put a police uniform on, you're a racist. I can't ever let my guard down, not at Fred Myer and not at my house. I travel everywhere armed. Always vigilant. Always watching. And the other officers over there, they're the same way. So, we need your support. Not just when bad things happen. But the officers over there do a hard job. And most of the time it's thankless. And we've really appreciated the outpouring of support that's comes from this. He concluded his testimony. He called out to one of his buddies: I think Sergeant Barnett's here, and I want to thank him. Sergeant Barnett was the first one on the scene, and until he got that tourniquet on my leg, I didn't think I was going to survive because I was bleeding a lot. Let me leave you with this last story that he told his fellow Fairbanksians: The night I was shot, I had my four kids and my wife on my bed. I read them a story like I always do. After the story, I told them, I think I am going to get shot tonight. Can you imagine saying that to your kids? He continued: And it happened. In the middle of the gun battle, that is all I could think about. He concluded by saying this: Can you imagine telling your kids before you go to work that you are going to get shot? Well, that is what our police officers deal with every day. I am not complaining, but I just want you to know what it is like, the life of a police officer. Then he looked at the audience and said: But we appreciate your support. That was his testimony. Only a few days later, he passed away. As I read that testimony again, I am struck by Sergeant Brandt's extraordinary selflessness. At the same time community members were applauding his bravery, Sergeant Brandt sought to remind us of the bravery of his brothers and sisters in blue, the unsung heroes who face the same dangers he did but without public fanfare or an outpouring of support. Having met with first responders all over my great State, I know that Sergeant Brandt's extraordinary selflessness is not an outlier, and it is not an exception; it is a hallmark of our police force and the fire department. They wake up each morning knowing that today may be the last day they get their kids ready for school, the last day they kiss their spouse goodbye. Today they may be asked to lay down their life to save another. That is a heavy burden. It is a burden that is shared by the spouses and children who have seen too many sleepless nights, praying for the safety of their mom and dad. In conclusion, over the holidays we are all going to come together with family and friends to celebrate the holidays. We are going to remember our troops overseas. But let's keep in mind the sacrifices being made by our brave officers, as well as their families, who will be on the beat during the holidays just like our members of the military, protecting us. On behalf of my fellow Alaskans, I want to express my profound gratitude and thanks to our proud law enforcement community for all they do to keep our communities safe. I yield the floor. # # #
12.09.2016	12.09.16 Final Tongass Plan Has Dire Implications for Southeast Economy Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today issued the following statements after the U.S. Forest Service released its Final Record of Decision (ROD) to amend the Tongass Land Management Plan (plan). “By finalizing a new plan on its way out of office, the Obama administration has blatantly disregarded some of the Tongass Advisory Committee’s most important recommendations and imperiled the economic future of Southeast Alaska,” Murkowski said. “Under this plan, the Tongass will no longer be managed to work for communities, but against them. The Forest Service’s insistence on locking in an accelerated transition to a young growth program without an inventory to show whether that is even possible is both harmful and misguided. And the timber industry is not the only one threatened by this plan – so, too, are energy development, mining, and others.” “This is the latest attempt in a death by a thousand cuts from this administration and extreme environmental activists who for years have been trying to kill off the last remaining timber industry in the Tongass,” Sullivan said. “Thankfully, the Obama Administration has only weeks left in office, after which we can turn this decision around and bring active management to our federal forests for the benefit of Alaska and America's economy.” “The transition from old to new growth timber harvests in the Tongass is more than a blow to the Alaskan timber industry, it sets a terrible precedent for timber harvesting across the nation,” Young said. “The U.S. Forest Service has time and time again proven they have zero interests in properly managing our national forests; sentiments echoed by the State of Alaska and Southeast timber communities. Under this new management plan, Southeast will not have enough young growth timber to supply even one single sawmill. We’ve already seen great support for overturning this shortsighted action, including passage of an amendment in the House Natural Resources Committee that would forbid this transition from taking place until a full inventory of young growth timber can be taken in the Tongass. I remain committed to reforming the federal government’s broken system of forestry management and will continue to push for the enactment of my legislation, the State National Forest Management Act.” The ROD rushes to lock in the Secretary’s proposed transition to young growth timber rather than following the recommendations of the Tongass Advisory Committee (TAC). Rather than completing an inventory to determine the appropriate timeframe for an economic program that will ensure the industry has adequate supply during the transition from old growth to young growth, the ROD adopts a ‘ready, fire, aim’ approach by beginning that transition without scientific support or knowledge of how it will turn out. The plan continues to pick and choose among the TAC’s recommendations and does not guarantee that old growth timber sales will provide the volume of timber that the industry needs to survive. The Forest Service also fails to provide a clear understanding about where the wood for bridge timber will come from during the transition. In addition, the plan does nothing to assure developers of mineral and energy projects that they will have access to their sites through Inventoried Roadless Areas – including so-called “roaded roadless” areas – to construct needed roads and power lines. Instead, it states that all decisions on such projects will be made on a case-by-case basis, which provides no reasonable assurance to investors who are deciding whether to risk their capital in this region. The delegation will explore options to overturn the plan amendment. There is a strong record supporting a reversal of the ROD, as the Forest Service largely dismissed the 1,000 objections voiced to the plan during the new “objector” process, including substantive complaints from both the environmental and timber industries. This decision puts the cart before the horse by implementing a plan that is based solely on vague assumptions, not data, on whether it can work. The Tongass National Forest, covering 17 million acres, is the nation’s largest National Forest. Despite this, Alaska had – by far – the lowest level of timber development of any Forest Service region in the fourth quarter of Fiscal Year 2016, with just 14.1 million board feet cut and sold. That is just a fraction (0.5%) of the harvesting allowed in National Forests in other parts of the country during that timeframe. ###
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Sullivan Praises National Defense Bill that Includes Critical Alaska Priorities With New NDAA, Congress Commits to Rebuilding America’s Military WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, joined 91 of his Senate colleagues in passing the conference report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017. The FY 2017 NDAA – continuing the 55-year bipartisan tradition of passing this bill – authorizes $619 billion in critical defense spending, and includes a number of provisions important to Alaska. “This time last year, many of my colleagues and I expressed deep concern about the declining size and state of the U.S. military. The FY 2017 NDAA marks a change in course, with a significant investment toward increasing the size of our Army, advancing our missile defense capability, and giving our service men and women a much-deserved pay raise,” said Senator Sullivan. “The world is an increasingly dangerous place and this bill finally takes the steps needed to ensure our brave men and women have what they need to defend this great nation.” “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and conferee of this bill, I know that our military depends on the annual defense authorization to ensure that our fighting men and women have everything they need to protect our nation against an increasingly complex and diverse array of global threats,” Senator Sullivan added. “From near-peer adversaries like a resurgent Russia and an emergent China, to unstable and unpredictable threats from ISIS, Iran, and North Korea, I fought to include provisions in this bill that will ensure that our troops always have the overwhelming advantage as our nation takes on growing threats in regions like the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic.” Key provisions secured by Senator Sullivan: Working with many of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan successfully included 21 provisions in the FY 2017 NDAA. His amendments advanced initiatives that will play an important role in ensuring Alaska’s and America’s long-term security. Missile Defense Defend and Deter Act: Senator Sullivan’s provision mandates that the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) conduct a flight test at least once per year to show Americans—and, more importantly, rogue nations like North Korea—that we have a missile defense system that will protect our citizens from the irrational threats and actions of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. Arctic Strategic Port Designation: Senator Sullivan’s provision requires the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Coast Guard and other relevant federal agencies, to create the designation and associated criteria for a “Strategic Arctic Port.” Within two years, the Secretary of Defense must submit a plan to begin the process of designating a “Strategic Arctic Port.” Additional Sullivan NDAA Amendments: Remote Travel Reimbursement for National Guard Members – The Rural Guard Act: This provision allows the Secretary to authorize higher reimbursement to reservists and guardsmen who reside in the same state as the inactive duty training location, reside outside of a population of 50,000 or more, or must commute via aircraft or boat from a distance of 75 miles or greater. High-Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) Land Transfer: This provision directs the U.S. Air Force to convey the HAARP facility to the University of Alaska, and its surrounding areas to AHTNA, Inc., which originally owned the underlying land. Senator Sullivan worked closely with Senator Lisa Murkowski and Congressman Don Young on this important issue. Galena Land Transfer: A priority of the Alaska congressional delegation, this provision transfers 1,300 acres of land from the U.S. Air Force on Campion Air Force Radar Station to the town of Galena. High Energy Intensity Report: This provision requires a much-needed report on the Department of Defense’s efforts to reduce the cost of energy at the installations that need it most, those in the highest 20% per capita of all military installations. Many of Alaska’s installations fall into this category. KC-46 OCONUS Basing: Given Alaska’s status as the hub of combat airpower, with the F-35A squadrons, large F-22 presence, and other strategically located aviation assets, this provision expresses the sense of Congress that the Air Force should give basing preference to airbases that have ample training opportunities, a strategic location, and sufficient airfield and airspace—characteristics that are abundantly found in Alaska—when considering OCONUS locations for basing the KC-46A. Congressional Support for Keeping the 4-25 Brigade Combat Team in Alaska: This provision restates the support of senior DoD leadership for the decision to halt the reduction of Alaska’s 4-25 IBCT (ABN), affirms the importance of forward-based forces like the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) to deterring aggression, and encourages the Army to reassess its force structure based on the changing global security environment. Arctic Search and Rescue Report: This provision directs the DoD to develop a strategic plan for resourcing Arctic capabilities, like the Arctic Sustainment Package (ASP), and the tactics, techniques, and procedures required to test and deploy these capabilities. FAA State-Sponsored Spaceports: This provision highlights the unique importance of the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska (PSCA) on Kodiak Island and expresses the belief that this facility can be used to support the national security space program from the Department of Defense, Air Force Space Command, Operationally Responsive Space Office, and Missile Defense Agency. HH-60/Combat Rescue Helicopter Report: This provision ensures that the HH-60G (the helicopter that the Alaska Air National Guard Combat Rescue Squadron flies) continues to be maintained, aircrew trained, and supported until Alaska gets the new Combat Rescue Helicopters in 2027-2028. Independent Review of U.S. Military Forces in the Asia-Pacific: In support of the President’s Rebalance to the Asia-Pacific, this provision requires the Secretary to commission an independent review and report to Congress on the US’ strategy for the Indo-Asia-Pacific region in Fiscal Year 2018. Notably, this amendment highlights the need to assess the Arctic ambitions of actors in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region. Innovative Readiness Training (IRT): This provision expresses the understanding of the value of the IRT program and encourages the Department of Defense to continue to utilize the IRT for programs across the country, including ones in Alaska, such as the runway construction in Old Harbor and Operation Arctic Care (roving medical and dental care in rural Alaska villages). Rural and Remote Considerations for TRICARE: As a part of some of the changes to TRICARE and military healthcare, this provision requires the Secretary of Defense to address the unique challenges that Alaska, Hawaii, and other rural and remote locations present to deliver effective healthcare. This provision helps ensure that these new reforms take Alaska’s unique healthcare challenges into consideration to ensure Alaska service members get timely access to high-quality care and better health outcomes. Additionally, the provision requires the Secretary of Defense to – before making any changes – certify to Congress that the unique characteristics of Alaska have been considered and that the provider reimbursement rate for these areas ensures timely access to high-quality primary and specialty care. This provision also helps ensure that managed care support contracts under TRICARE include providers within the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, as is currently used by the VA. ###
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Sullivan Statement on Oklahoma Attorney General Pruitt as EPA Administrator WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, issued the following statement on President-elect Trump’s intent to nominate Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “I commend President-elect Trump on his choice for EPA Administrator. Each time Attorney General Pruitt has testified before the EPW Committee, I’ve been impressed by his eloquent legal analysis and his incisive refutation of the lawless overreach we’ve seen from President Obama’s EPA these past 8 years. “All Americans, regardless of their political leanings, want clean air and clean water. But Americans do not want an out-of-control federal government and an endless stream of regulations that are more about control than the health of our environment. Attorney General Pruitt has stepped up time and again to defend his constituents and challenge the federal government through litigation when the federal government overreaches. As a former state attorney general who also recognized the importance of states challenging the federal government, Attorney General Pruitt’s appointment sends a strong signal that the new administration’s EPA will be run under its congressionally defined scope of authority.” ###
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Sullivan Applauds Passage of the 21st Century Cures Act Bill includes $1 Billion for fight against Opioid Epidemic & Support for Rural Community Hospitals WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today joined 93 of his colleagues in passing the 21st Century Cures Act, which will support advancements in medical research toward the development of new cures and treatments for serious diseases, along with other priorities of Senator Sullivan. “I am excited to see members of Congress coming together in this ambitious effort to accelerate the discovery of new cures and treatments for diseases afflicting millions of Americans and many Alaskans,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “The 21st Century Cures Act includes two provisions of particular importance to Alaskans—a major funding boost to our fight against the opioid epidemic and an extension of the Rural Community Hospital Demonstration (RCHD) Project, which began in 2003. The RCHD program enables two Alaska hospitals to continue improving care in some of our smaller communities, and is critical to their bottom line.” Senator Sullivan and Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) previously cosponsored legislation extending the RCHD Project, which passed the Senate earlier this year. The extension impacts Central Peninsula Hospital in Soldotna and Bartlett Regional Hospital in Juneau. “Central Peninsula Hospital is extremely grateful for the support of the Alaska congressional delegation’s effort in getting the Rural Community Hospital demonstration program reauthorized in the 21st Century Cures Act. This program has allowed Central Peninsula Hospital the flexibility to provide new service lines and an expanded facility for our service area residents,” said Bruce Richards, Director of External Affairs for Central Peninsula Hospital. “On behalf of Bartlett Regional Hospital and the Community of Juneau, I would like to thank Senator Sullivan for his support and persistence in getting the CMS Rural Demonstration Project extended for an additional five years as part of the 21st Century Cures Act,” said Chuck Bill, CEO of Bartlett Regional Hospital. “This project ensures that Bartlett is paid at cost for Medicare inpatients and will significantly improve our viability and ability to offer other programs such as behavioral care and substance abuse treatment.” “The 21st Century Cures Act invests $1 billion in the fight against opioid addiction ravaging so many communities across the country, including in Alaska,” Senator Sullivan added. “Following the progress made at this summer’s Alaska Wellness Summit—which brought together community organizations, state stakeholders, federal officials and more than 400 engaged Alaskans—I know this new federal support will give hope to many more Alaskans struggling with addiction, and to their families.” The $1 billion allocated to combat opioid abuse will be disbursed over two years in grants supporting state efforts, including prevention activities, training for health care providers, and expanding access to treatment programs. The legislation also enables existing funds to be channeled to the specific needs of local entities, including training for law enforcement, mental health courts, transition support for those in recovery, and jail diversion programs. In addition to the opioid and rural community health provisions, the Act: Secures an additional $4.8 billion over 10 years for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to conduct research into cancer, Alzheimer’s, and other chronic and certain rare pediatric diseases. Strengthens important mental health programs and clarifies existing rules requiring parity between physical and mental health coverage. Directs NIH to support innovative EUREKA Prize Competitions, similar to the X-prize concept, to advance biomedical science and improve health outcomes for serious diseases. Provides liability protection for health care professionals who volunteer their services at community health centers. Reauthorizes the Sober Truth on Preventing Underage Drinking, which continues efforts to prevent underage drinking through different avenues. Reauthorizes the suicide prevention and intervention Garret Lee Smith Memorial Act, and expresses the Sense of Congress that suicide prevention efforts should be prioritized to populations disproportionately affected, including Alaska Natives. # # #
12.07.2016	
12.01.2016	12.01.16 Sullivan Votes to Extend Sanctions on Iran WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today voted in favor of an extension of the Iran Sanctions Act, which passed the Senate on a vote of 99 to 0. The Act extends sanctions on Iran through 2026. “As many of us who opposed President Obama’s Iran nuclear deal predicted, Iran has not curbed its support for terrorism, development of its ballistic missile capabilities, nor its efforts to destabilize the Middle East,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “In fact, just yesterday, Army General Joseph Votel, commander of U.S. Central Command, said we have witnessed ‘a bit of an uptick’ in Iran’s nefarious activities since the implementation of the deal. If Iran’s support for terrorism, repeated violation of U.N. resolutions, and hostility toward our allies in the region do not continue to be met with strong consequences, we risk encouraging the regime, already emboldened with billions of dollars in economic relief, to act with further aggression. Until Iran demonstrates a clear change in behavior, the United States and all members of the community of nations have a duty to continue existing sanctions on the regime for its unrelenting threats to peace and order.” The Iran Sanctions Act, originally passed in 1996 and renewed in 2006 for a ten-year term, imposes punitive measures to “pressure Iran to cease its nuclear, chemical, biological, and missile weapons programs and (its) support for international terrorism.” The Act was set to expire at the end of 2016. The House passed companion legislation extending the Iran Sanctions Act two weeks ago on a vote of 419 to 1. # # #
11.30.2016	11.30.16 Sullivan Works to Reverse Obama’s Army Drawdown; Future of Alaska’s 4-25 Looks Promising WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today signed the Conference Report to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This bill includes increased funding authorization to increase force structure for all four services. The NDAA authorizes an additional 16,000 U.S. Army soldiers, halting and reversing an ongoing drawdown of Army forces by the Obama administration. This drawdown included the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (IBCT) Airborne (ABN) at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER), Alaska. “Since the Army’s announcement a year and a half ago, I have fought day in and day out against an ill-advised reduction of Army forces in Alaska and for an increase in overall Army force structure,” said Senator Sullivan. “We are a nation at war, we have troops in combat, and we have more complex and diverse threats today than at any point since the end of World War II. We need a larger military – Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines Corps – and I have fought as a member of the Armed Services Committee to give our nation’s uniformed leaders the manpower and resources they need to protect our great nation. “This year’s Defense Authorization finally halts – and even begins to reverse – a harmful trend of the last eight years by increasing the force structure for all four services. With a new authorized force level of 476,000 and President-elect Trump’s pledge to further increase the size of the U.S. Army, I am optimistic that we have finally relieved the pressure that drove the Army to its decision to dramatically reduce the 4-25. After getting assurances from U.S. Army leadership that they would halt the reduction of the 4-25, I am now more hopeful than ever that we are on the right path for the United States Army and the right path to ensure that all of the soldiers of the 4-25 stay where they belong and where they are needed most – in Alaska. “Lastly, I want to thank Senator Murkowski and Congressman Young, and the countless Alaskans throughout the state who continue to make the case that Alaska is the most strategic place in the world, has the nation’s best training areas, and has the country’s warmest and friendliest military communities.” BACKGROUND: By the end of FY 2017, the United States Army was on a path to drawdown to 460,000 soldiers. This reduction, part of multi-phased drawdown from 490K to 475K and then from 475,000 to 450,000, was the key driver behind the U.S. Army’s decision to convert the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) from a full brigade to a battalion task force, removing 2,600 soldiers form JBER. The Conference Report to the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization authorizes an additional $719 million to fully resource an Active Duty Army Force Structure of 476,000. This force level is 16,000 more soldiers than the previously authorized level of 460,000, and 6,000 more soldiers more than the Army’s current force level of 470,000. ###
11.18.2016	11.18.16 Alaska Delegation Slams Decision to Strip Arctic Leases from New OCS Plan Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, today condemned the Obama administration’s decision to remove two Alaska lease sales – one each in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas – from its “Proposed Final Program” for Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) leasing for 2017-2022. Eliminating the program’s Arctic sales will yield the weakest offshore development plan in American history and lock up vast resources that are needed to grow our economy, protect national security and keep energy affordable for American families and businesses. “President Obama is well aware that the vast majority of Alaskans want OCS development, and I am infuriated that he has once again ignored our voices to side with the factions who oppose it,” Murkowski said. “We have shown that Arctic development is one of the best ways to create jobs, generate revenues, and refill the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. Why the president is willing to send all of those benefits overseas is beyond explanation. And it is even more stunning that just one day after urging the new administration to stand up to Russia, he continues to cede leadership on Arctic energy production to them. I will do all that I can to counteract this shortsighted decision.” “With this action, the Obama Administration is once again capitulating to the demands of extreme environmental groups over Alaskans and their fellow Americans who want good-paying jobs, energy independence and a strong economy,” Sullivan said. “For nearly eight years this Administration has given lip service to an ‘all of the above energy strategy,’ when their actions say the opposite. As Alaska’s Attorney General, Commissioner for the Department of Natural Resources, and U.S. Senator, I’ve fought this Administration every step of the way in their concerted efforts to lock up Alaska’s resources and turn our state into one giant national park. We will work hard to reverse the latest damage the Obama Administration has done to our citizens, economy and future. Let’s hope that this is the final chapter in the Obama Administration’s harmful legacy of putting the interests of anti-energy activists over those of hard-working Alaskans and their families. Our state and country still have a promising future in responsible resource development. I am hopeful that with the incoming Trump Administration we will be able to reach our potential as a state and nation in this important area.” “For years, the Obama Administration has tried to convince the American people that it supports an “all-of-the-above” energy policy. Yet, it has consistently delivered crippling blows to the Alaskan people in the form of new regulatory obstacles, insurmountable roadblocks, and overly prescriptive regulations – making in nearly impossible for new development to occur,” Young said. “Today’s announcement – politically driven and meant to appease the nation’s most extreme environmental groups – represents some of the worst decision making we’ve seen over the last eight years. I truly wish I could say I was surprised, but this administration has never been serious about Arctic OCS development. With the writing on the wall, we’ve taken numerous steps in Congress to enhance Arctic lease sales – going as far as passing an amendment to the House Interior Appropriations bill that would have prevented this lease removal from taking place. Make no mistake, this blatant disregard for Alaska’s social and economic future will be overturned. The Obama Administration has simply added one more obstacle to the list.” Alaska’s offshore areas contain prolific energy resources. According to Interior’s own technical analysts, the Beaufort and Chukchi seas form one of the most prospective basins in the world. Together, these areas are projected to hold 23.6 billion barrels of oil and 104.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. For perspective, that is enough to meet all of California’s demands for oil and natural gas for 37.5 years and 43.5 years, respectively. According to a 2011 analysis by the firm Northern Economics, development of the resources in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas would create an annual average of 55,000 jobs over a 50-year period. Those jobs would create a total payroll of $145 billion over that span. Development is also projected to generate a total of $193 billion for local, state and federal treasuries. According to a 2014 poll, some 73 percent of Alaskans support Arctic OCS development. While calling out the previous, draft offshore leasing plan as a bare minimum effort, the congressional delegation repeatedly urged the Obama administration to keep both Arctic lease sales in its final program. For example, in May, Chairman Murkowski led a delegation letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and chaired an oversight hearing of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources on this issue. The Alaska delegation is now reviewing the Proposed Final Program and will determine what actions can be taken to ensure that Alaska’s federal waters are part of a more robust and economically beneficial offshore program during the next administration. ###
11.18.2016	11.18.16 Sullivan Statement on President-elect Trump’s Selection for Attorney General WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement on President-elect Trump’s intent to nominate Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to be Attorney General of the United States. “I am encouraged to hear about the nomination of my Senate colleague Senator Jeff Sessions to be the next Attorney General of the United States. Senator Sessions has a long record of exemplary public service, and is a passionate defender of our Constitution and the rule of law. I look forward to his confirmation and working with the next Attorney General in reestablishing constitutional principles that have been eviscerated by the current Administration.” ###
11.09.2016	11.09.16 Sullivan Statement on 2016 Elections ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement today on the 2016 elections: “I want to congratulate President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence on their historic victory last night. They clearly heard and gave voice to the concerns of millions of our citizens who feel the American dream is slipping away. “I look forward to working closely with our new president and his administration on issues critical to Alaska and America: energy independence, infrastructure, robust economic growth and jobs, a strong military, and rolling back the Obama administration’s executive orders and overregulation of our economy. “I also want to congratulate my new and returning Senate colleagues on their hard fought victories. The voters chose to keep the Senate Republican Majority working for the American people. And I want to extend a special congratulations to my friends Lisa Murkowski and Don Young. Alaskans should know they have a strong and united congressional delegation that will continue to fight for Alaska's interests. “Finally, I would like to reinforce the important and unifying words of President-elect Trump from his speech last night, calling for ‘America to bind the wounds of division, and come together as one united people.’” ###
11.04.2016	11.04.16 Sullivan Statement on Governor Walker's Cancer Diagnosis ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today regarding Governor Bill Walker’s announcement that he has been diagnosed with prostate cancer. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to Governor Bill Walker and his family during this difficult time. Governor Walker has long been a fighter, and I’m sure he will bring the same unwavering spirit to this battle and will have a speedy recovery. I appreciate that the governor brought this issue to the attention of Alaskans. We should all heed his advice and take the time to have regular check-ups.” # # #
11.01.2016	11.01.16 Sullivan Applauds FCC Order Expanding Broadband in Rural Alaska ANCHORAGE, AK – The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) this week issued an order that expands the Connect America Fund Phase II (CAF II) program for Alaska’s price cap carrier to deploy broadband services throughout Alaska. This order will provide approximately $19.4 million per year for 10 years and will improve voice and broadband service for more than 31,000 locations throughout rural Alaska – many of which are without any broadband today. “Earlier this year, during a Senate Commerce Committee hearing, all five FCC Commissioners committed to me that they would work to finalize the order to give Alaska’s price cap carrier the financial certainty it needs to increase speeds and bring service to many rural areas throughout Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “Working closely with Congressman Young and Senator Murkowski, I am pleased to see that the FCC upheld this commitment. It is a step in the right direction towards bringing broadband to every Alaskan household.” ###
10.24.2016	10.24.16 Sullivan Extremely Frustrated by Ninth Circuit Ruling Allowing Bearded Seal Listing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today expressed frustration at a U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit opinion overturning a District Court’s 2014 ruling that found the 2012 listing of the bearded seal as “threatened” by the National Marine Fisheries Service under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) was unwarranted. ‎ “I am deeply troubled by the 9th Circuit’s decision today to allow unnecessary and crushing federal regulatory burdens to move forward, which will impact large swaths of Alaska lands and waters,” said Senator Sullivan. “The listing will have detrimental impacts on our ability to access Alaska’s lands and resources, which is why a broad coalition – Alaska Native organizations, resource development groups, individual Alaskans and the state – came together to oppose the listing pushed by outside radical environmentalists. I will do everything in my power to fight efforts by federal agencies to lock up our lands and resources and stifle economic opportunities for Alaskans. I hope the U.S. Supreme Court will take up the matter in the coming term should the parties decide to appeal." # # #
10.19.2016	10.19.16 Alaska Senators Honor 50 Years of the Alaska Federation of Natives WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate recently passed a resolution (attached), introduced by U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Alaska Federation of Natives (AFN). AFN was formed in October 1966 when more than 400 Alaska Natives, representing 17 Native organizations, conducted a historic 3-day meeting to address Alaska Native land rights. “I’m proud to honor and recognize the significance of AFN and what this organization has achieved. I look forward to the AFN convention every year – where we join together to exchange information, share ideas, discuss community issues and more importantly, learn from each other. I have seen firsthand how valuable this statewide gathering is year after year, and believe the importance cannot be understated,” said Senator Murkowski. “It is through these discussions that the AFN delegates are able to enhance and promote the cultural, economic, and political voice of the entire Alaska Native community.” “I want to congratulate AFN on 50 years of commitment of, for, and by the Alaska Native peoples,” said Senator Sullivan. “Fifty years ago our Alaska Native leaders joined together to show the world that 55,000 individuals can make a difference by fighting for, and eventually passing, the largest land claims act in history. Since inception, AFN has proven time and time again that they are leaders in the state and country on many different issues, and always stand ready to serve Alaska Natives. I’m humbled and honored to serve AFN, and committed to working with the organization and all of the people it represents.” This year’s AFN Convention, the largest representative annual gathering of Native peoples in the United States and the largest convention in the State of Alaska, will be held at the Carlson Center in Fairbanks from October 20th to October 22nd. ###
10.14.2016	10.14.16 State Department Responds to Delegation’s Transboundary Concerns WASHINGTON, DC - In response to a letter that Senator Lisa Murkowski, Senator Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young (all R-AK) wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry last month, the State Department told the Alaska Congressional Delegation in a letter (attached) that it will remain in close contact with concerned Alaskans and are committed to identifying the best ways to resolve shared concerns about risks posed to water quality and livelihoods in Alaska by mining activities in British Columbia. “I am encouraged that it now appears the State Department at least understands the importance of transboundary water issues to so many Alaskans, because understanding an issue is the first step in addressing it. And it is promising to see the State Department show an elevated interest in this topic, as demonstrated by recent trips to the state to meet with concerned Alaskans,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “That being said, I remain disappointed that the State Department refuses to address our questions and suggestions, such as to consider appointing a special representative for U.S.-Canada transboundary issues. And it is unacceptable that Secretary Kerry has yet to meet directly with Alaskans on such a hugely important issue. The State Department’s response is a step in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go until Alaskans’ concerns are adequately addressed.” “I am glad the Department of State and other Administration officials have finally initiated steps to engage key stakeholders as well as the governments of Canada and British Columbia on these pressing transboundary water issues. Yet, further progress is necessary to address the questions the delegation and Alaskan stakeholders have raised,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “We must all continue to work collaboratively toward solutions that ensure Canadian resource extraction is conducted in a manner that safeguards the vibrant downstream interests in Southeast Alaska.” “The people of both Alaska and Canada have a mutual interest and desire to develop their own potential natural resources, but we must stay engaged and communicate when the actions of one can have implications on the other,” said Congressman Don Young. “Ongoing and proposed mining activities in Canada have brought tremendous concerns to the people of Southeast Alaska -- specifically with the Tlingit and Haida people – which is why I have always engaged with the delegation to prioritize and facilitate outreach between all parties involved. Although I am pleased to hear about certain progress being made to implement portions of the memorandum of understanding and to address the concerns of Alaskans, I still believe there’s much work to be done.” The State Department’s letter listed the efforts it has taken to address transboundary water issues, including: Visiting Alaska last August at the invitation of the Central Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska to discuss tribal concerns related to mining activities; Meeting with Governor Bill Walker, Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott, commercial fishing leaders, business owners, and conservation leaders; Hosting a meeting in April in which the State Department and EPA raised the concerns of potential mining impacts with their Canadian counterparts from Global Affairs Canada and Environment and Climate Change Canada; and Committing to raise the issue with their Canadian counterparts in upcoming bilateral meetings. The State Department further noted and welcomed the delegation’s efforts to prioritize baseline water quality monitoring in Southeast Alaska. The delegation also applauded State Representative Louise Stutes’ work on the House Fisheries Committee to host a transboundary hearing in the Alaska Legislature earlier this week. ###
10.07.2016	10.07.16 Sullivan Comments on State of Alaska’s Nominations in OCS Lease Sale Program WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in support of Alaska Governor Bill Walker’s recent letter to Secretary of Interior Sally Jewell nominating the Beaufort and Chukchi seas and Cook Inlet for inclusion in the 2017-2022 proposed Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) lease sale program. “It is of vital importance to Alaska and the nation’s economic and energy security that the Obama Administration keeps the proposed lease sales on the OCS in the Cook Inlet, and Beaufort and Chukchi seas in the next five year leasing plan,” said Senator Sullivan. “We need a mindset at the state and federal levels that supports oil and natural gas production through creative solutions and modernizing our regulatory process. The State of Alaska and industry stakeholders have time and again demonstrated the keen interest in, and need for, continued exploration and production on state, Alaska Native and federal lands. Maintaining access in the Arctic OCS for exploration and future oil and natural gas production will allow us to pragmatically utilize and deploy our vast energy resource to ensure abundant and secure energy supplies well into the future.” ###
09.30.2016	09.30.16 Sullivan, Baldwin Introduce Bill to Create Vietnam Helicopter Crew Memorial WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) have introduced the Senate companion legislation of H.R. 4298, the Vietnam Helicopter Crew Memorial Act, which would direct the Secretary of the Army to approve a memorial in Arlington National Cemetery honoring the nearly 5,000 helicopter pilots and crewmembers killed during the Vietnam War. The legislation was first introduced in the House by Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV). “The brave helicopter pilots and crew of the Vietnam War were crucial to the fight against the North Vietnamese and communist forces, and to the eventual evacuation of thousands of Americans and Vietnamese from Saigon,” said Senator Sullivan. “A five-foot-by-one-foot memorial amid the more than 620-acre cemetery is not an unreasonable request to honor the sacrifices of thousands of fallen service members. With 40 years having passed since the end of the Vietnam War, it is time for family members of these fallen heroes to have a place in our nation’s cemetery to come and pay their respects.” “Brave and courageous Vietnam war pilots made incredible sacrifices and this bipartisan effort offers respect for their selfless service,” said Senator Baldwin. “Our Vietnam veterans and their families have earned this recognition and they deserve to be properly honored at Arlington National Cemetery.” “Hailing from all branches of the Military, these pilots, crew members, and medics account for almost ten percent of all the casualties in what has come to be known as the ‘Helicopter War,’” said Rep. Amodei. “Vietnam pilots and crew members touched every aspect of the war’s efforts, serving as transportation for soldiers and civilians, and providing critical battlefield support, but the process has failed these veterans – denying them proper recognition for their joint sacrifice. A working standard that doesn’t allow a worthy application to make that grade, is a working standard, quite frankly, that needs a little bit of help. While this legislation may not change the process, it would ensure that a group of veterans, who are more than worthy of a memorial, receive the recognition they deserve. I’m pleased to join Senators Sullivan and Baldwin in support of these true American heroes.” The memorial proposal was submitted by the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association (VHPA). The VHPA has agreed to fund the construction and installation costs for the memorial. # # #
09.29.2016	09.29.16 Sullivan Joins Conversation On How to Fix Washington’s Broken Budget Process WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) yesterday joined his colleagues, led by Senator David Perdue (R-GA), in a conversation on the Senate floor about fixing Washington’s broken budget process. Senators Sullivan and Perdue were joined by Senate Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Senator James Lankford (R-OK), Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Senator Steve Daines (R-MT). Click here to watch the Senators’ full speeches. Highlights: Senator Sullivan: “A lot of us ran for office – a lot of us for the first time – because we saw what is going on with this budget process…We have all been working on this for months this is what we need to do to finally get ahold of these enormous budget challenges. I want to encourage all of my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, to join in this process to bring your ideas to fix what is clearly a broken process.” Senator Perdue: “Right now, we have a budget crisis. We have a debt crisis. Fixing the budget process will not solve the debt crisis, but we will not solve the debt crisis unless and until we address the dysfunction in our budget process.” Senator Tillis: “This is a threat to our national security. This is a threat to our economic security. This is a threat to the security of every man and woman in the United States because they can’t rely on a government that will provide businesses or individuals with any kind of certainty whatsoever. It’s tough to make budget decisions, but they need to be made.” Senator Lankford: “We’re not going to get a better product, until we have a better process. Let’s solve how we do budgeting and actually get to a better product…Step one—like an AA group—let’s admit there is a problem. There is a problem. Step two—let’s get to work on fixing it and actually resolve the process, and let’s actually get to work balancing and paying off our debt.” Chairman Enzi: “I remember introducing [Senator Perdue] the first time we had a Budget Committee meeting, and I said, ‘Senator Perdue knows how to balance a budget, he’s been working in the private sector.’ And he said, ‘No, in the private sector you have to show a little bit of a profit.’ Well we’re going to have to show a little bit of profit around here if we’re ever going to get rid of the debt.” Senator Corker: “We really don’t have a budget process. I mean to even call what we do a budget, per most human beings’ understanding of what a budget is, is obviously not realistic…We have to, in essence, get a process in place that actually works. It’s impossible for the process we have today to work. Today, is a perfect example of that, right?” Senator Ernst: “We can’t keep spending money we don’t have on things that aren’t necessary. Washington can’t even do the basic business of balancing our own budget…It might just take a complete overhaul of Washington’s ways to help us solve this problem.” Senator Rounds: “We have to begin the process of fixing this broken [budget] system and we need to begin now. In 2026, our country turns 250 years old. Wouldn’t it be a marvelous goal if by that time we not only had this process fixed, but it was actually working once again?” Senator Daines: “The biggest hurdle to balancing the budget are the very rules, the very process, that guides this institution. They are broken…We came here not to accept the status quo but to reject it, and to change the way this country operates truly to save the future of our kids and our grandkids.” ###
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Sullivan Statement on the Continuing Resolution WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in support of the continuing resolution, which funds the federal government until December 9, 2016, and fully funds military construction and veteran affairs for FY 2017. “While I fundamentally disagree with the process, it was important to ensure that the government of the United States was kept up and running. Government shutdowns are disruptive to our economy and hurt our country’s morale. Going forward, I am committed to reforming the system so that our government is not held hostage to competing political agendas and to political factions on both sides of aisle. To be clear, for the second straight year, all 12 appropriations bills were passed out of the Senate Appropriations Committee. This year, they passed by a cumulative vote of 345 to 15. Even with this extraordinary level of bipartisanship in committee, the Democrat Minority turned around and chose to engage in filibusters on the Senate floor, blocking defense spending five times alone. This must change and I will work with my colleagues to change it. “With specific regard to the MilCon/VA funding, I want to especially thank Senator Murkowski for fighting to ensure that Alaska’s priorities are included in federal appropriations bills, especially the military construction funds for the F-35s at Eielson Air Force Base as well working to address the important issues facing the Alaska VA.” ###
09.26.2016	09.26.16 Bill to Empower Native Communities, Boost Tourism Signed into Law WASHINGTON, DC – A bill co-sponsored by Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) to enhance and integrate native tourism, empower native communities, and expand unique cultural tourism opportunities in the United States, the Native American Tourism and Improving Visitor Experience (NATIVE) Act, has been signed into law by President Obama. Congressman Don Young (R-AK) co-sponsored companion legislation in the House of Representatives. The NATIVE Act would require federal agencies with tourism assets and responsibilities to include tribes and native organizations in national tourism efforts and strategic planning. It would also provide Native Hawaiian, Alaska Native, and American Indian communities with access to resources and technical assistance needed to build sustainable recreational and cultural travel and tourism infrastructure and capacity, spur economic development, and create good jobs. “This important piece of legislation will give cultural tourism a much-needed boost,” said Senator Murkowski. “Tourism contributed $3.9 billion to Alaska’s economy last year, and this bill will give Alaska Native communities and small businesses the opportunity to share their traditions and cultures with travelers from all over the world.” “Working towards diversifying our economy is extremely important and this bill helps in that effort,” said Senator Sullivan. “For rural Alaska, the economic development potential is huge, and it will also help to showcase for the rest of the world rural Alaska’s uniqueness and beauty.” “Alaska is recognized as a premier travel destination, not only for our state’s abundant beauty but for our welcoming people and rich cultural history,” said Congressman Young. “The NATIVE Act, which I proudly co-sponsored in the House, makes important steps to empower Alaska Native and American Indian communities by increasing collaboration and coordination of federal efforts to promote tourism in these areas. Tourism is a significant source of revenue and employment for Alaskans, and this legislation ensures Alaska’s culture and heritage is supported throughout our federal tourism programs.” “The American Indian Alaska Native Tourism Association (AIANTA) applauds the Alaska's leadership, Senator Sullivan, Senator Murkowski and Congressman Don Young for their support and co-sponsorship of the NATIVE Act.” said Camille Ferguson, AIANTA executive director. “This legislation will forever impact the ability of American Indian and Alaska Native Tribes and Native Hawaiians to promote their authentic stories through tourism, while also providing increased opportunity for economic development and cultural sustainability for tribes especially in rural areas.” The bill is supported by a broad coalition of stakeholders including the U.S. Travel Association, American Indian and Alaska Native Tourism Association, Western States Tourism Policy Council, National Congress of American Indians, Alaska Federation of Natives, Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement, Native American Contractors Association, and the Native Enterprise Initiative of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ###
09.22.2016	09.22.16 Sullivan, Heitkamp Bill to Combat Domestic Violence Introduced in House by Reps. Young, Kennedy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) today announced that their bipartisan bill to help combat domestic abuse and sexual violence by increasing access and promoting pro-bono legal services for victims of domestic violence was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Don Young (R-AK) and Congressman Joe Kennedy (D-MA) joined with Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) and Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-IN) to introduce in the House of Representatives a companion bill to S. 2280, which unanimously passed the U.S. Senate last fall. “Domestic violence and sexual assault are scourges that we must work to eliminate,” said Senator Sullivan. “One of my priorities as Attorney General for Alaska was to tackle the unacceptably high rates of domestic violence and sexual assault in my state. Among other initiatives, I put on a pro bono summit that gathered lawyers from all across the state and saw firsthand how effective such efforts can be. I’m grateful that many lawyers in my state continue to provide much-needed legal services to victims on a pro bono basis. And I am grateful to Congressman Kennedy and Congressman Young for introducing this bill in the House of Representatives. We were sent to Washington, D.C. to make a difference. This bill will help make a difference.” “No community or state is immune to the devastating impacts of domestic violence and sexual abuse. As a nation, we must do all we can to stem the tide of this growing epidemic,” said Congressman Don Young. “The POWER Act is only one small step in these efforts, but an important tool to empower victims with the necessary legal resources to seek justice. I’m proud to join Representative Kennedy and Alaska Senator Dan Sullivan in this effort to end the evils of domestic violence.” “Too often, victims of domestic violence are unable to seek permanent refuge because they lack the protective legal services that keep them safe from their abusers – but our bill aims to change this,” said Senator Heitkamp. “We can make sure domestic violence victims – especially those living in Indian Country – can access affordable legal services that can help them escape the often cyclical abuse they experience. Last fall, the Senate unanimously passed the bipartisan bill Senator Sullivan and I introduced to help make those services more available, and it’s great news that Congressman Kennedy is building on that momentum by introducing our bill in the House of Representatives today with a bipartisan group of cosponsors. As North Dakota’s former Attorney General, I understand the many legal needs of victims of domestic violence – and how difficult access to those services can be. By asking our U.S. Attorney’s to take the lead in prioritizing increased access to legal protections for victims of these crimes, with a particular focus in states like North Dakota on our most vulnerable populations including women in Indian Country, this bill helps make sure those critical defense tools are available to victims who need them most.” “For the victims of domestic violence, our justice system should be a safe haven,” said Congressman Kennedy. “Instead, too many survivors show up in court and face the very same fear and intimidation they are trying to escape. Without access to legal assistance, many confront their abuser alone in court, victimized once again. The POWER Act will help restore the promise of equal protection for the millions of domestic violence victims across our country.” Sullivan and Heitkamp’s Pro Bono Work to Empower and Represent or POWER Act (POWER Act) would require U.S. Attorneys in each judicial district across the country to work with domestic violence service providers or coalitions and an area volunteer lawyer project to hold at least one event promoting pro-bono legal services. The purpose is to reinforce a critical way to empower survivors of domestic violence, engage citizens, and help lift victims out of the cycle of abuse. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, cosponsored the bill. Across Native populations in North Dakota and Alaska, rates of domestic and sexual violence are staggering. To address these crimes specifically in Indian Country and among Native communities, Sullivan and Heitkamp included a provision in the bill mandating U.S. Attorney’s offices work with the Native populations in their judicial district in planning and holding an event every few years with a focus on addressing these crimes in Indian Country and among Native populations. Senators Sullivan and Heitkamp are both former attorneys general of their states and understand how the legal system can help prevent the probability that victims will again be abused. ###
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Senators Launch Senate Opportunity Coalition Scott, Ernst, Lankford, Rubio and Sullivan come together to fight poverty WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined a group of conservative senators to launch the Senate Opportunity Coalition, a new initiative organized by Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC), aimed at ensuring that every family across the nation has access to the American Dream. Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), James Lankford (R-OK) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are also members of the coalition. Together, the senators will work to alleviate poverty and grow economic opportunity by sharing firsthand experiences from their constituents, highlighting the issues facing low-income families, and working toward conservative solutions that give every American the chance to succeed. The Senate Opportunity Coalition also released the first of a series of documents today, entitled “Paving the Path to a Brighter Future.” Each Senator contributed a story from their home state, showing both the wide variety of issues faced by those seeking opportunity and the Senators’ commitment to finding solutions. You can read the entire document here. In his story, Senator Sullivan focused on how infrastructure could help Alaska communities have access to lower-cost goods, as well as opportunities for greater economic development. For instance, a roughly 22-mile spur road from Noatak to the haul road used by Red Dog Mine in Alaska’s Northwest Arctic Borough could greatly reduce the cost of living in Noatak – which is paying exorbitant prices for heating oil and household goods. “In a state with abundant natural resources, it’s tragic that there are areas in Alaska that have some of the highest costs of living in the nation, and highest rates of poverty,” said Senator Sullivan. “It doesn’t have to be this way. Projects that could provide good, high-paying jobs for Alaskans, and lower cost-goods, are often denied outright, or delayed to death by onerous and expensive permitting.” “In our coalition, all of us are from very different areas of the country, and our specific solutions vary. But we all agree that we need a federal government that is a partner in progress, not an obstacle to success,” Senator Sullivan concluded. ###
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Sen. Sullivan Secures Victories for Alaska’s Water Infrastructure WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today praised the Senate for passing the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA), which includes several key provisions vital to Alaska’s water and wastewater infrastructure that Senator Sullivan – as a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, where the bill originated – fought for. Senator Sullivan was also able to include provisions for increased funding for harbors and emerging ports across the state, and language which encourages the development of a future deep-water Arctic port. Among the provisions related to drinking and wastewater is a new water infrastructure grant program for small and disadvantaged communities. The program authorizes $1.4 billion over five years. Working in consultation with Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, Senator Sullivan was able to craft the program to specify that grant money go communities without basic drinking water or wastewater services, or communities with a drinking water system that fails to meet health-based standards. “For Alaska, investment in such infrastructure is crucial,” Senator Sullivan said. “More than 3,300 rural Alaska homes lack running water and a flush toilet, which leads to serious health issues. This is unacceptable. One of my top priorities has been to ensure that the federal government realizes its responsibilities to provide basic infrastructure for its citizens. That’s what this bill does, and I’m grateful that my colleagues in the Senate agree.” “This bill provides authority for funding that would allow for the replacement of aging, failing and outdated water and sewer infrastructure in rural Alaska communities,” said Andy Teuber, chairman and president of the Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium. “The laudable efforts of Senator Sullivan to support first time access to indoor plumbing lays a path forward in improving the health outcomes of a generation of Alaska Native children growing up in remote villages.” More than 30 communities in Alaska do not have access to water or wastewater services. Funding for rural Alaska sanitation projects dropped by more than 50 percent between FY 2004-2014. If appropriated, this grant money will increase funding to pre-2004 levels. Further, the underlying bill provides $100 million in direct spending in the form of grants to respond to the Flint, Michigan water crisis. Senator Sullivan worked to direct any left-over Flint response money to the new Small and Disadvantaged Communities Grant Program and the lead pipe replacement program created in the bill. "On behalf of AFN, I want to thank Senator Sullivan for his efforts to support safe water in our villages and in other communities in our country like Flint,” said Julie Kitka, president of the Alaska Federation of Natives. “We are glad that the citizens of Flint are getting federal resources to help in that terrible situation. We are also very grateful Senator Sullivan listened to our concerns and acted quickly." Another key element of the bill instructs the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense to, for the first time, identify national security benefits associated with an Arctic deep draft port and use that as a basis for determining feasibility. Currently, the basis for funding of an Arctic deep draft port is based purely on economics. Important national security implications in the Arctic, including Russia’s military buildup in the region, are not taken into account. Additionally, WRDA 2016 includes the following priorities for Alaska: Arctic Deep Draft Port: The bill instructs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, in carrying out the study of the feasibility of an Arctic deep draft port, to consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense to identify national security benefits associated with an Arctic deep draft port and use that as a basis for determining feasibility. Last year, the Army Corps paused the feasibility study of an Arctic deep draft port due to the economic loss of Shell’s withdrawal from the Chukchi Sea. This provision encourages the Army Corps to justify an Arctic port based on metrics beyond economics. Construction Authorization for Little Diomede Harbor: Authorizes: Federal: $26,015,000; Non-Federal: $2,945,000; Total: $28,960,000 Construction Authorization for Craig Harbor: Authorizes: Federal: $29,062,000; Non-Federal: $3,255,000; Total: $32,317,000 St. George Harbor: Language is included to expedite completion of the report for St. George Harbor and, if the Secretary determines that a project is justified in the completed report, proceed directly to project preconstruction, engineering, and design. St. Paul Harbor: Repeals section 2008 of WRDA 2007 to correct the cost share agreement. St. Paul Harbor construction was completed in September 2005. Elfin Cove: Authorizes the Army Corps to maintain harbors of refuge, which benefit communities such as Elfin Cove, which has experienced shoaling in its entrance channels presenting challenges to safe navigation. Valdez Harbor: Removes federal interests in a portion of land adjacent to Valdez Harbor, allowing local development of this property. Seward’s Lowell Creek Flood Diversion System: Extends the Army Corps’ responsibility for operations and maintenance for the Lowell Creek Flood Diversion System in Seward. Small, Remote, Subsistence Harbors: Allows regional benefits to be taken into account when justifying the feasibility of small, remote, subsistence harbor projects. Emerging Ports: Permanently extends the 10% set aside from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for emerging harbors. Emerging harbors are those transiting less than one million tons of cargo annually. Alaska Native Corporations: Allows Alaska Native Corporations to develop water infrastructure projects as non-federal sponsors. The House of Representatives is scheduled to take up their WRDA legislation, H.R. 5303, as early as next week. ###
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Delegation Introduces Bill Returning Healthcare Options to Alaskans WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski, and Congressman Don Young introduced the Ensuring Health Care Opportunities Act of 2016 which will help Alaskans struggling with the high cost of health insurance, and strive to attract more insurance companies to Alaska. President Obama, and many of those who voted for the Affordable Care Act, promised that those who liked their healthcare coverage could keep it under Obamacare, and that the act would lower costs and increase competition. The President said that every plan would offer an “affordable, basic package.” Six years later, hundreds of thousands of Americans, particularly those in rural states like Alaska, have seen premiums and deductibles skyrocket, and choices decrease with an exodus of insurance companies. A recent Gallup poll reveals that 29% of Americans say they have been directly hurt by Obamacare, and 51% of Americans disapprove of the law. When the Affordable Care Act became law, Alaskans had their choice of five insurers offering individual coverage on the federal exchange. Today, Alaska is one of as many as eight states down to one insurance company offering such policies. Further, one-in-four counties across the county are down to one insurance company offering individual plans. Until full repeal is realized, Alaskans are desperate for solutions. The Ensuring Health Care Opportunities Act would allow Alaskans, along with residents of states and localities with only one insurance company offering plans on the exchange, the option to buy health insurance that doesn’t include certain Obamacare mandates that might not apply to them, like mental health services, addiction treatment and maternity care – services which every health care policy today is required to cover. “The cost of health care coverage is crippling Alaska’s middle class,” Senator Sullivan said. “The stories I hear and the letters I receive from my constituents being forced to buy insurance they can’t afford, and insurance they can’t use because of high deductibles, are heartbreaking. The President and the law’s supporters are M.I.A. as announcement after announcement comes out detailing the abject failure of Obamacare, taking many Americans’ livelihoods with it. Something has to be done. Until we can repeal Obamacare, this bill will provide Alaskans what they have been asking for – a real choice in policies.” “We have seen time and time again that the Affordable Care Act does not work for a low-population, high-risk state such as Alaska. This essential bill would once again give Alaskans a choice in their healthcare coverage, a choice that the Affordable Care Act had taken away,” said Senator Murkowski. “I am proud to join with Senator Sullivan and Congressman Young to bring relief and flexibility to Alaskans suffering from the failing ACA’s one-size-fits-all policies.” “Long before the disastrous rollout of Obamacare, many predicted that this one-size-fits-all healthcare law simply wouldn’t work – especially in places like Alaska,” said Congressman Don Young. “With skyrocketing premiums and the loss of all but one healthcare provider, it’s clear that those predictions have come true. Alaskans need and demand relief from this overbearing government mandate, especially as our system faces near collapse. This bill takes serious efforts to confront the many healthcare challenges facing Alaskans by removing some of the most unreasonable requirements of this law, while also giving Alaskans the choice and flexibility they need and deserve.” Background on the Ensuring Health Care Opportunities Act: This bill would allow states that have at least one county (or equivalent municipality) with only one insurer on the health exchange market to be exempted from certain coverage mandates in the Affordable Care Act. States are not required to file this exemption, and the authority is left up to the state insurance commissioner or equivalent official. Individuals will not be required to purchase insurance excluding these coverage mandates. States will have 90 days to file this exemption after the law is enacted, or 90 days once a state discovers it will have at least one county with only one insurer. The waiver is good for 5 years and can be recertified. No part of this law prevents health insurers from offering a health insurance plan with these mandates. The law simply allows for additional plans to be filed that offer more choice for the consumer as a one-size-fits-all approach has clearly not worked. The point of this bill is to give consumers more choice in their health insurance options while encouraging insurers to reenter states to offer more plans to meet consumer needs and demands. This law will not impact the preexisting condition clause of the Affordable Care Act or the ability for parents to keep children on their insurance plans until the age of 26. Facts about the Affordable Care Act: A new study by the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation suggests there could be just one option for coverage in 31% of counties in 2017, and there might be only two in another 31%. That would give exchange customers in large swaths of the U.S. far less choice than they had this year, when 7% of counties had one insurer and 29% had two. 974 counties have only one insurer and make up part of 23 states. According to the American Action Forum, premium increases associated with coverage of these mandates have ranged from 0.13 percent in Rhode Island to 33 percent in Maine, with most states expecting single-digit increases. Media reports on the ACA’s impact on Alaskans: “Prior to implementation of the ACA, a consumer could choose which services and coverage they were willing to pay for and at what price point. Now, the federal government chooses for them, and they are required to pay up, or pay a penalty.” – Susan Bell, former commissioner of the Alaska Department of Commerce, Community and Economic Development, writing in the Juneau Empire, September 10, 2014. “‘You never want to be without competition – that's not good for consumers,’ [Alaska Division of Insurance Director Lori] Wing-Heier said. ‘But in our case in particular it's troubling because [companies are] leaving because they're losing money. That makes it harder to attract new insurers to the market,’ Wing-Heier said.” – Alaska Dispatch News, July 7, 2016. “A recent cost-of-living index highlighted what many Alaskans already know: Living up north is pricey, from groceries to housing to utilities. But only in one category -- health care -- did four of the state's cities top the nation. Juneau placed first, then Fairbanks and Kodiak, with Anchorage named fourth for most costly health care, followed by Everett, Wash., and Boston, according to a report released last week by the Council for Community and Economic Research. The organization of researches measured some 300 cities based on the average 2013 prices for visits with optometrists, dentists and physicians.” – Alaska Dispatch News, March 27, 2016. “In health insurance prices, as in the weather, Alaska and the Sun Belt are extremes. This year Alaska is the most expensive health insurance market for people who do not get coverage through their employers, while Phoenix, Albuquerque, N.M., and Tucson, Ariz., are among the very cheapest.” – NPR, January 15, 2015. “Alaska Division of Insurance Director Lori Wing-Heier responded that the market is at a point where it may become so costly that Alaskans may flee the marketplace, creating an even smaller pool, and larger rate increase. The individual market could ‘go into a death spiral,’ she told legislators.” – Alaska Dispatch News, May 17, 2016. “Alaskans on the individual market have already seen huge increases in their health insurance rates over the past two years. Premera's rate increases averaged 37.2 percent in 2015 and 38.7 percent in 2016, while Moda's increases were 27.4 percent and 39 percent.” – Alaska Dispatch News, January 28, 2016. “It might not be a surprise to learn that Alaskans are much more likely to be uninsured than most other Americans. They are also more likely to live in remote areas and more likely to be people of color than those in the continental United States. They’re precisely the sort of population that the Affordable Care Act was designed to serve by expanding coverage, expanding access to health care, and making health care cheaper. But instead of proving the usefulness of health reform, the new health infrastructure in the state is quietly failing.” “Health Care Falters on the Last Frontier.” – Atlantic Monthly, July 1, 2016. Editorials from newspapers across the country: PITTSBURGH TRIBUNE-REVIEW: “Just around the time that Barack Obama packs his bags and leaves the White House, the house of cards that is ObamaCare could come tumbling down.” (Editorial, “Obamacare's Future: Condition Critical,” Pittsburgh Tribune Review, 8/15/16) NEW HAMPSHIRE UNION LEADER: “The entire Obamacare scheme was set up on faulty premises. You can’t force people to buy health insurance they don’t want, subsidize mediocre insurance plans people can’t afford, and still claim to hold down rising medical expenses.” (Editorial, “Another ACA Failure Bad Idea Keeps Getting Worse,” Union-Leader, 9/6/16) DETROIT NEWS: “The Affordable Care Act — commonly called Obamacare — isn’t working as it was supposed to. Insurance premiums are set to skyrocket in 2017, following increases the past several years. … President Barack Obama’s signature health care law was built on a dream. But market realities still exist, and taxpayers and patients throughout the country will continue to pay the price for the president and Congress ignoring those realities.” (Editorial, “Obamacare Begs For Congressional Review,” The Detroit News, 8/18/16) ###
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Sullivan Introduces Bill to Assist Democratic Transition and Spur Economic Development in Burma WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) along with Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced the Empower Burma Act, legislation that aims to assist in Burma’s democratic transition by requiring the United States to lead a worldwide effort to assist in Burma’s economic development. The introduction of the legislation coincides with Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi’s first official visit to Washington as Burma’s de-facto leader. In November 2015, Burma held an historic election that ushered in a democratic government after nearly 60 years of military rule. However, Burma faces significant challenges that the new democratic government must urgently address to solidify democratic gains in the country. Burma is currently one of the least developed countries in Southeast Asia – 25 percent of its residents live below the poverty line and only 30 percent have access to reliable electricity. The Empower Burma Act directs the Administration to produce a comprehensive, long-term strategy to promote sustainable economic development in Burma, including meeting Burma’s stated goal of universal access to electricity by 2030. The legislation also directs U.S. representatives of multilateral development agencies, including the World Bank and Asia Development Bank, to support and advocate for development projects in Burma. The legislation also supports extending to Burma U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) benefits as well as future Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) assistance, so long as Burma meets all relevant criteria for inclusion. Lastly, the legislation expresses that Congress must be closely consulted prior to lifting or amending any existing U.S. sanctions toward Burma. “As a once-in-a-generation figure, Aung San Suu Kyi has courageously fought for decades to institute a more open, transparent, and fair democracy in Burma," said Senator Sullivan. "As she visits Washington this week, I am hopeful that the Empower Burma Act will help reaffirm the value that the U.S. places on its evolving partnership with Burma. It is also a critical signal to the Burmese people that they are not alone and that we stand ready to help them address some of the persistent issues that – as new democracy – they now face, such as an ongoing fight for peace, increased civilian control of the military, and improving crippling and widespread poverty.” “After returning from Burma and meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi and her top advisors, it was clear to me that one of this government’s top priorities is providing immediate economic benefits to the Burmese people suffering decades of ruinous military rule. Nowhere is this more apparent than achieving increased access to electricity, which only a third of Burmese residents enjoy today,” said Senator Gardner. “The Empower Burma Act aims to help to direct U.S. policy to help Burma tackle its many economic challenges during the democratic transition. The United States has an opportunity to lead, and this legislation represents action we can take now to deliver development and democracy – and the freedoms and opportunity that come with it - to the Burmese people.” ###
09.09.2016	09.09.16 Sullivan Comments on North Korea’s Latest Nuclear Test WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement today regarding reports of another nuclear weapon test by North Korea. “North Korea’s continued provocative behavior is deeply troubling,” said Senator Sullivan. “It is why I support a more robust missile defense system that will keep our country safe against rogue actors like Kim Jong Un, who is working to develop intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of hitting our country. Make no mistake, the North Korean leader is irrational, inexperienced, and determined to destabilize the rules-based international order, and threaten our freedom here at home. This is also why we need to stand united with South Korea and Japan – the lynchpin and the cornerstone for security in the Asia Pacific. I will continue to fight for the funding our country needs to defend itself against this threat and will continue to advocate for trilateral cooperation with two of our strongest allies in the Asia Pacific.” ###
09.09.2016	09.09.16 Alaska Delegation Urges State Department to Focus on Transboundary Issues Requests Meeting With Secretary Kerry Regarding Continuing Concerns Over Water Quality in Southeast Alaska WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Alaska Congressional Delegation joined together to again urge Secretary of State John Kerry to address the downstream risks that mining in British Columbia may pose to Alaska and Alaskans. Senators Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young wrote a letter (attached) to Secretary Kerry, seeking his Department’s engagement in their efforts to ensure that British Columbia institutes appropriate safeguards to prevent potential negative impacts to transboundary waterways and fisheries. Additionally, the Delegation formally requested a meeting with Secretary Kerry to discuss these issues. The Congressional Delegation expressed their frustration over seeing little action from the State Department on the issue over the past year. “Alaska is a resource state and we believe, as Canadians do, in smart, thoughtful extraction of energy and minerals. Mining is central to our economy, provides well-paying jobs, helps generate revenues for our treasuries, and serves as the foundation of our manufacturing sector. But we are very concerned about the absence of leadership at the Department of State to constructively and candidly address the transboundary issue and work collaboratively with Canada to find the best mechanism to proactively resolve concerns.” As mining activity continues to expand in British Columbia, the Delegation urged swift engagement from the State Department. “Treating transboundary mining issues with urgency and focus today would prevent discord and disaster tomorrow. We need the federal government to partner with Alaska to press Canada on policy answers.” In closing, the Delegation reiterated its requests from May 2015, regarding steps the State Department can take to help Alaskans address transboundary mining risks. Encourage British Columbia officials to consider the cumulative impacts of mining and their potential impacts on transboundary waters during the review and approval process for mines. Determine whether an International Joint Commission reference is a suitable venue to determine whether Canadian mines are following “best practices” in treatment of wastewaters and acid-producing mine tailings – especially in light of the scientific reviews of the causes of the Mt. Polley tailing disposal dam failure. Establish a more formal consultation process with American state agencies, other federal agencies, tribes, and Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act corporations during Canadian mine permit reviews, similar to the American process of having participating entities during Environmental Impact Statement preparations. Support Environment Canada’s water quality study effort relating to the impacts of mining on transboundary waters. Support and work towards robust funding for water quality testing on the American side of the border to establish baseline water quality data, so that the U.S. can file for damages in the event of mining-related damage from Canadian mines. The Delegation also urged Secretary Kerry to take several additional actions, as his Department seeks solutions of its own: Appointing a Special Representative for U.S.-Canada Transboundary Issues; Creating an Interagency Working Group to address these issues; and Working with the Delegation to form U.S.-Canada exchanges of legislators and parliamentarians to discuss transboundary issues on both sides of the border. ###
09.06.2016	09.06.16 Senate Democrats filibuster critical troop funding a sixth time WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) took to the Senate floor today to rebuke Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senate Democrats for again filibustering the defense appropriations bill, the sixth such filibuster in the past year and a half. The legislation, which includes critical funding for America’s troops serving overseas, passed out of committee with unanimous bipartisan support. “We just saw another filibuster of spending for the men and women who serve in the United States military. What a disappointment and what a disconnect between what's going on in the rest of America and back here in D.C.,” said Senator Sullivan. "For those who think that the members of the military don't understand what's going on, that one party consistently denies them funding … that’s not true. The troops know what's going on…. To support the troops, to stop the filibuster – this is what our troops want. This is what the American people want. And this is what the Senate of the United States of America should be doing.” The filibuster comes on the heels of Senator Harry Reid suggesting in a recent interview with the New York Times that the Senate should “curtail the filibuster” if Democrats win back the majority and the White House. # # #
09.01.2016	09.01.16 Alaska Delegation Congratulates Hockey Legend Scotty Gomez ANCHORAGE, AK – Today, the Alaska Congressional Delegation congratulated Scotty Gomez on his retirement from the National Hockey League (NHL). “Scotty Gomez has had the most decorated hockey career of any Alaskan in history. Alaskans have been proud to watch one of our own achieve so much – from 16 seasons in the NHL including Rookie of the Year and two Stanley Cups to appearing in two NHL All-Star Games and even representing the U.S. in the Winter Olympics. He has captured the attention of every Alaskan and for over a decade has inspired many hockey players to dream big. It’s not just what he’s done on the ice that makes us proud, but what he’s done off the ice to give back and invest in young Alaskans. Scotty, with the support of his father Carlos, established the Scotty Gomez Foundation, allowing underprivileged youth to have an opportunity to play hockey. Although Scotty worked hard and experienced great success, he never forgot that he was an Alaskan and has graciously dedicated himself to Alaska’s youth over the years. We wish Scotty the very best in retirement and look forward to having him back in Alaska more frequently throughout the year.” ###
08.31.2016	08.31.16 Senator Sullivan Comments on FCC’s Alaska Plan KETCHIKAN, AK – Today, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) released an order which provides Alaska telecommunication rate-of-return carriers with the financial certainty they need to invest in telecommunications infrastructure and expand broadband capabilities throughout Alaska. This order will provide over $1 billion of federal Universal Service Fund (USF) money to 15 Alaska-based wireless and wireline telecommunications providers over a 10-year period. “I commend the FCC for acknowledging the significant challenges our carriers face in meeting the communications needs of all Alaskans, especially in rural Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “During my recent travels throughout the state, I witnessed firsthand the need for reliable broadband to help bridge the digital divide. Earlier this year, during a Senate Commerce Committee hearing, all five FCC Commissioners committed to me that they would work toward an Alaska-specific solution, and I am pleased that after almost two years of hard work from the Alaska carriers, and advocacy from the Alaska Congressional delegation, the FCC upheld their commitment.” "We are excited to be able to bring faster, better broadband to so many Alaskans over the next 10 years," said Christine O'Connor, executive director of Alaska Telephone Association. "Over the next 10 years 85% of rural Alaskans will be able to access 4G LTE or better wireless service and 90% will have access to 10 Mbps wireline service. The consistent efforts of Alaska's providers to inform the FCC about Alaska's uniqueness and the strong leadership of the Alaska Congressional delegation have resulted in a solution that will dramatically increase broadband service in rural Alaska." In November 2015, the Alaska Congressional delegation wrote the FCC in support of an Alaska specific solution. The letter is available here. ###
08.05.2016	08.05.16 Sullivan Condemns U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Rule That Preempts State Wildlife Management ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan today condemned a rule from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) that would fundamentally alter wildlife management on Alaska’s 77 million acres of national wildlife refuge land. This rule targets the State of Alaska’s proven, science-based wildlife management strategies that have been subject to rigorous public review and participation. Instead, the Fish and Wildlife Service rule preempts the State’s management authority, a principle that was enshrined in the Alaska Statehood Act, and further protected in the National Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act and the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA). “The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s rule severely restricts the State of Alaska’s efforts to sustainably manage wildlife and minimizes the participation of Alaskans in future decisions affecting the use of its refuges,” said Senator Sullivan. “Even more alarming, the FWS ignores the intent of federal law and promises made to Alaska at statehood. Plain and simple—this rule reflects a callous attitude toward Alaska’s culture and conservation ethic and threatens the careful balance currently employed to sustainably manage wildlife populations to protect subsistence and recreational opportunities.” Since its proposal on January 8, 2016, Sen. Sullivan has worked aggressively to derail the rule. January 20: Senator Sullivan successfully passed an amendment to S. 659, the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act, which would prohibit the rule from taking effect. January 21: The Alaska congressional delegation sent a letter to FWS Director Dan Ashe expressing concerns over the rule, citing that it did not accurately portray or analyze its potential impacts on Alaska and its economy. Letter: https://www.sullivan.senate.gov/download/delegation-letter012116 February 9: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, chaired an oversight hearing on the proposed rule in his Subcommittee. May 20: The Alaska congressional delegation sent a letter to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs requesting that they classify the rulemaking as a significant action that would have warranted reconsideration by the agency. Letter: https://www.sullivan.senate.gov/download/delegation_letter_052016 June 7: Senator Sullivan sent a letter highlighting additional concerns and requested that the proposed rule be withdrawn until they were addressed. Letter: https://www.sullivan.senate.gov/download/sullivan-letter-to-ashe_060716 Congressman Young has twice passed an amendment, similar to the amendment first authored by Senator Sullivan to prohibit this rule, through the House of Representatives on a bipartisan vote. That amendment is currently part of the ongoing conference committee negotiations to resolve the differences between the House and Senate-passed energy bills. # # #
08.02.2016	08.02.16 Alaska Delegation Praises F-35 Progress ANCHORAGE, AK – Today the Alaska Congressional Delegation released the following statements after the U.S. Air Force announced that the first F-35A squadron capable of handling a range of combat missions, known as Initial Operating Capability (IOC), is now ready. IOC demonstrates the confidence the Air Force has in the F-35 program and their success in ensuring the first squadron is ready for combat. “This is a great step forward in our efforts to bring two squadrons of F-35s to Alaska. The IOC announcement means the Air Force is on track with its plans to base the F-35s at Eielson Air Force Base in Interior Alaska by 2020,” said Senator Murkowski. “Alaska is among the most strategic places in the world and this reinforces how crucial Eielson is to our national security and how imperative it is that we have the most capable assets available in the region. As threats around the globe continue to rise and the strategic importance of the Arctic becomes clear, we are proud in Alaska to be a nexus for our Nation’s defense.” “I'm excited to hear that the F-35A has met all the requirements to declare initial operational capability, and that the Airmen stand ready to employ the close air support, interdiction, and suppression of enemy air defense missions,” Senator Sullivan said. “This is another positive step towards the arrival of the F-35As at Eielson Air Force Base by 2020 and affirms that Alaska is a critical hub of combat air power for our nation. Congrats to all of the Airmen who stand ready to answer our nation's call.” "Today is a great day for the Air Force and the future security of our nation," said Congressman Young. "Like other defense procurement programs, the F-35 has faced setbacks. However, thanks to tough congressional oversight and dedicated Air Force leadership, this next generation of American air superiority has excelled and is now officially ready for Air Force operations. I look forward to the day in the not so distant future when Alaska will be our nation's strategic and tactical powerhouse in the Asia Pacific and the Arctic — with two squadrons of F-35s, Apaches and Grey Eagles, F-22s, C-17s, 1-25 SBCT, 4-25 IBCT, and the Alaska National Guard." The nation’s first operational squadron of F-35A Joint Strike Fighters will be based at Hill Air Force Base, Utah. Two squadrons featuring a total of 54 F-35s will be based at Eielson AFB beginning in the 2019-2020 timeframe. ###
07.29.2016	07.29.16 Sullivan: No Relief In Sight for American Worker in Stagnant Obama Economy ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) numbers, released by the U.S. Department of Commerce earlier today, showing the economy grew only 1.2 percent in the second quarter of this year. GDP is one of the primary indicators used to gauge the health of a country's economy. In the United States, the growth rate since 1790 has averaged an annual rate of 3.7 percent, almost 4 percent GDP. The Obama administration’s average is barely 2 percent. “The United States economy grew a pitiful 1.2 percent in the second quarter of 2016,” said Senator Sullivan. "Even more alarming is that there is absolutely no relief in sight for American productivity and for our workers. I have been a leader on this issue in the Senate and have repeatedly called on President Obama and Secretary of the Treasury Lew to acknowledge this failure of economic leadership. My calls have been met with a deafening and absolute silence. The Obama economic recovery remains the weakest since the end of World War II and has never seen 3 percent GDP growth for a single year. The secret sauce of America for 200 years has been strong growth. It’s what has kept us safe, secure and cohesive. We cannot and will not accept the narrative that our stalled economy is the ‘new normal.’ President Obama has been the steward of a lost decade of economic growth, and it’s time that he was straight with the American people about our economy. If we fail to be honest about our economic challenges, we risk surrendering the greatness of America.” ###
07.25.2016	07.25.16 Sullivan to Convene Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced that he will be convening a Wellness Summit next Thursday, August 4th in Palmer, Alaska. The summit will be dedicated to conquering the opioid and heroin epidemic scourging our nation and great state of Alaska. Federal officials from several agencies will attend to hear what unique obstacles Alaskans face when seeking treatment and recovery, as well as witness the indomitable spirit of Alaskans who have overcome those obstacles. “Opioid and heroin addictions are ruining the lives of too many Alaskans. It’s vital that we come together to find solutions,” said Senator Sullivan. “Whether you are an elected official, a medical professional, a family member, a public servant, a friend, a person in recovery, or a citizen looking for more information, I invite all Alaskans to attend this summit to help us conquer this epidemic that’s ravaging so many lives across our state and throughout the country.” Featured speakers at the summit include: Dr. Mary Wakefield, Deputy Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Dr. Vivek Murthy, Surgeon General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Dr. Jennifer Lee, Veterans Health Administration Deputy Undersecretary for Health Policy and Services Dr. Karen Drexler, Veterans Health Administration Acting National Mental Health Program Director for Addictive Disorders Gloria O’Neill, President and CEO, Cook Inlet Tribal Council Kara Nelson, Executive Director, Juneau Haven House Senator Lisa Murkowski Congressman Don Young WHAT: Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis WHEN: Thursday, August 4th from 9:00AM – 3:30PM WHERE: Mat-Su College, 8295 College Drive, Palmer, Alaska 99645 MEMBERS OF THE MEDIA: If you plan to attend, please email Mike_Anderson@sullivan.senate.gov or call at (907) 223-7132. ###
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Alaska Delegation Introduces Stand-Alone King Cove Legislation New Measures Continue Effort to Protect the Lives of Almost 1,000 Alaskans Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan, and U.S. Rep. Don Young, all R-Alaska, this week introduced identical bills in both chambers of Congress to facilitate a life-saving road for the isolated community of King Cove, Alaska. Without the road, local residents continue to be at the mercy of high winds, dense fog, and strong storms that prevent safe and timely transportation during medical emergencies. “It has now been more than 30 months since Sec. Jewell callously rejected a life-saving road for King Cove, and local residents have been forced to endure medevac after medevac since then,” Murkowski said. “The Obama administration clearly has no intention of ever helping this community, but we cannot simply leave the health and safety of nearly 1,000 Alaskans to chance. We need to end the needless pain and suffering caused by the status quo before an even greater tragedy occurs, and we can do that by approving this short, simple road.” “This administration and their allies in Congress -- beholden to environmental special interest groups -- think they know what’s best for Alaska. To value waterfowl above the well-being and safety of King Cove residents is unimaginable, and documents how out of touch this administration is with reality,” Sullivan said. “To completely ignore the federal government’s responsibility to the Aleut community and other citizens of King Cove is shocking, and that is why I am proud to join Sen. Murkowski and Congressman Young in introducing this fair and equitable land transfer legislation.” “Secretary Jewell’s heartless denial of the Kind Cove road – a willful and deliberate dismissal of human life in the name of wildlife – represents one of the worst government actions I’ve seen in all my years in Congress,” Young said. “Not only has the Administration dismissed its sacred trust responsibility to the Native people of King Cove, they continue to pay lip service in the hopes this issue will go away. I will say now, this issue will not go away until the people of King Cove get the treatment and respect they deserve. Given that the Administration has entrenched itself with some of the most extreme environmental groups, this legislation is an important step in moving forward by doing what Alaskan lawmakers have done best – building a broad coalition in Congress around a commonsense solution for our people.” King Cove is located between two volcanic mountains near the end of the Alaska Peninsula, about 625 miles southwest of Anchorage. Since December 2013 alone, a total of 46 medevacs – including 17 carried out by the U.S. Coast Guard – have occurred in often-terrible weather conditions that make flying and sailing extremely dangerous for patients and rescuers alike. In the past, plane crashes have led to multiple fatalities that could have been avoided had road transportation been an option. The new King Cove bills, S. 3204 and H.R. 5777, authorize an equal value land exchange between the State of Alaska and the federal government for a 206-acre land road corridor. The corridor would account for approximately 0.06 percent of the 315,000-acre Izembek National Wildlife Refuge and is needed to facilitate an 11-mile, gravel, one-lane, non-commercial road segment that will connect existing roads on both sides of the refuge. Once the road is complete, King Cove will be reliably linked to nearby Cold Bay, which is home to an all-weather airport featuring the fifth-longest runway in the state. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. She held an oversight hearing on King Cove’s continuing lack of reliable emergency medical transportation in April 2016, and as chairman of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee has successfully reported language to facilitate a life-saving road in each of the past two years. # # #
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Sullivan Cosponsors Countering Iranian Threats Act Legislation includes Sullivan provision to block Iranian pathway to U.S. financial system WASHINGTON, DC – One year to the day since President Obama’s Iran nuclear deal was announced, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined U.S. Senators Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) as an original cosponsor of the Countering Iranian Threats Act of 2016. This legislation would extend the Iran Sanctions Act; expand sanctions for ballistic missile development, support for terrorism, and other illicit Iranian activities; sanction transfers of conventional weapons to or from Iran; and codify the prohibition on “U-turn” transactions involving Iran. “When President Obama and Secretary Kerry were selling the nuclear deal with Iran, implicit in their appeal was that it would mark the beginning of a more transparent and cooperative Iran,” said Senator Sullivan. “However, since its signing, we’ve seen attempt after attempt by the Iranian regime to undermine, circumvent or blatantly disregard the conditions they agreed to exactly one year ago. Ignoring clear violations of the deal without reproach only emboldens the regime to act further. For the sake of U.S. national security and the global fight against terrorism, Congress must act when the Obama administration is not prepared to. That is why I am pleased to have worked with my colleagues on a bill that recognizes that the Iranian threat still exists.” The legislation includes provisions introduced by Senator Sullivan earlier this year, when the Obama administration’s Department of Treasury contemplated giving Iranian banks access to U.S. dollars through offshore “clearing houses.” It prohibits the use of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) to issue licenses to conduct offshore dollar-clearing with an Iranian financial institution until the President certifies to Congress that Iran is no longer designated a state sponsor of terrorism. ###
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Bill to Combat Opioid Epidemic Headed to President WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today lauded the Senate’s passage of the conference report on the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), legislation to combat the opioid epidemic across the nation, including Alaska. CARA overwhelmingly passed the Senate on a vote of 92-2 and last week passed the House 407-5. “After months of gridlock, senators today came together to pass a comprehensive package to combat the opioid and heroin addiction crisis,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Having met with a number of Alaskans across our great state, I know Alaska is not immune to this epidemic, with many Alaskans facing unique obstacles to recovery. CARA provides the much-needed resources to bolster prevention efforts, expand law enforcement’s capacity to reverse overdoses, and provide treatment and recovery options for Americans who have fallen victim to this epidemic. The passage of CARA is a major step toward changing the tide and giving addicts and their families new hope.” Among its provisions, CARA: Makes the life-saving drug naloxone more widely available to law enforcement and first responders so that they have a better chance of reversing an overdose. Expands resources to develop, implement and expend treatment alternatives to incarceration. Increases the number of disposal sites for unwanted prescription drugs. Establishes an evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and interventions demonstration program, and authorizes grants to states to carry out a comprehensive opioid abuse response. Reinforces prescription drug monitoring programs for states to help ensure drugs do not fall into the wrong hands. Implements a public awareness campaign to warn of the dangers of opioid use, to recognize warning signs, and to prevent abuse. Senator Sullivan will be hosting the Alaska Wellness Summit: Conquering the Opioid Crisis on August 4th at Mat-Su College. U.S. Health and Human Services Deputy Secretary Mary Wakefield, Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, top-level U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs officials, and esteemed Alaskans will be participating and speaking. ###
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Sullivan Supports FAA Reauthorization Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, today supported the reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through September 2017. The legislation contains several key provisions secured by Senator Sullivan that are important to Alaska. "With more than 100 communities in our state wholly reliant on aviation to get in or out – including regional centers like Bethel, Nome and Kotzebue – today's reauthorization of the FAA is uniquely important to Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “The bill will help maintain Alaska's diverse and remote pieces of aviation infrastructure which are vital to the well-being of so many Alaskans. The legislation also incorporates new airport security measures, while streamlining the third class medical certification process – a major victory for the general aviation community.” Provisions of importance to Alaska include air traffic control hiring provisions and increased benefits for the general aviation community. ATC Hiring: In January 2014, the FAA launched an effort to fill an expected 6,300 air traffic controller vacancies over the next five years. As a part of that effort, the FAA announced that it was no longer providing any preference to applicants coming out of training facilities, such as Collegiate Training Initiatives (CTI) including one at the University of Alaska-Anchorage, over general public applicants with no training. The FAA also eliminated hiring first from a category of highly qualified candidates and has instead opted to hire from a larger group of applicants who all meet the minimum qualification standards. Applicants from the CTIs have been particularly affected by this decision, despite its long history of success in preparing students for careers as air traffic controllers. The bill includes language to reinstate preferences to CTI graduates, as well as eligible veterans, in the hiring process. Other important reforms include the removal of arbitrary exclusionary screening assessments, and the allowance of certain candidates who were previously disqualified by the arbitrary assessments to reapply for a 2014 vacancy announcement. Third Class Medical Certification Process: The bill reforms and streamlines the third-class medical certification process, significantly lowering the bureaucratic barriers that prevent general aviation pilots from flying. The bill requires the FAA to revise medical certificate requirements to allow most general aviation pilots who have a valid FAA medical certificate, or had one in the last 10 years, to never need to go through the medical certification process again. Other pilots who have never held an FAA medical certificate will only need to go through the process once. For pilots with a medical condition requiring a special issuance medical certificate, in most cases the pilots will only need to go through the certification process once. Investment in Aviation Infrastructure: The bill also would authorize the appropriation of $175 million from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund in each of fiscal 2016 and 2017 for the Essential Air Service (EAS) program, a program serving approximately 60 communities in Alaska. ###
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Senators Decry Democratic Filibuster of Critical Troop Funding WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Steve Daines (R-MT), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) today joined in a colloquy on the Senate floor to speak about the Democratic filibuster of the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill. The funding bill came out of the Senate Committee on Appropriations with the unanimous support of Democrat and Republican members. However, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid said that his members are blocking critical funding for our troops so that his party wouldn’t be at the “mercy” of Republicans. As all of the members said in the colloquy, this filibuster comes at a time when we have seen dramatic developments, just in the past week, relating to global security — North Korean submarine missile test, the deployment of 560 additional troops to Iraq, continued provocations by Russia, Chinese live-fire exercises in the South China Sea, and the President’s announcement that more troops will be staying in Afghanistan than he previously committed. “In one of the most volatile times in our history, Minority Leader Harry Reid is blocking this critical funding to try and gain political leverage. It’s a disgrace,” Senator Dan Sullivan said. “Our enemies and our adversaries are the ones who truly gain leverage when we in Congress don’t commit to funding our troops. I call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to do the right thing for our troops and for our national security.” “The fact that we would reject funding for our forward deployed soldiers is appalling to me,” said Senator Joni Ernst. “These are my brothers and sisters. These are my friends, my neighbors, my colleagues. They are fighting on behalf of the United States. But the United States is now turning its back, with a filibuster, on these troops. How dare our colleagues block a bill to fund our military while our troops are deployed.” "We need to make sure our military forces have the tools they need to win,” said Senator Steve Daines. “Our enemies aren’t waiting around for Senate Democrats to fund our military to make it a fair fight.” “The Democratic conference has decided to say ‘no’ to funding our troops. They have decided to say ‘no’ to funding important training that is necessary to make sure they can complete highly dangerous and complex missions wherever a threat may occur,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “There are more than 100,000 active duty soldiers in North Carolina. What do I tell them when I go home? In spite of all of these threats, politics is above the principal of funding our troops and protecting our nation? This is politics at its worst. We need to send this bill to the President’s desk and show respect to the men and women who have sworn an oath to lay down their life for the cost of freedom.” ###
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Sullivan Keynotes South China Sea Policy Conference Senator to China: U.S. Will Continue to Stand By Allies and Protect Freedom of the Seas WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) delivered the keynote address at the Center for Strategic and International Study’s (CSIS) 6th Annual South China Sea Conference today, where he highlighted the need for the U.S. to strengthen economic ties and military partnerships with its regional partners and to regularly navigate the disputed areas of the South China Sea to preserve the freedom of navigation in international waters. “Freedom of the seas is a bedrock commitment ingrained into the marrow of America's bones as a great power. It is not a choice for America, it is an integral part of who we are as a people,” said Senator Sullivan. "Regrettably, in recent years, there have been disturbing signs that China has chosen to employ a policy of intimidation and coercion toward its neighbors in the South China Sea, East China Sea, and elsewhere, and is increasingly rejecting its duty to protect freedom of the seas as a responsible stakeholder. "For a country that has a reputation for the long view and being able to see around the corner of history, China’s aggressive actions seem to be alienating itself from every country in the region. China’s dismissive rhetoric in reaction to today’s tribunal will only further isolate itself. As Secretary Carter said in Shangri La this year, China risks erecting a Great Wall of self-isolation. "China’s actions are driving nations closer to the U.S. and we should fully embrace our new friends and our longstanding allies. There should be no mistake that the United States will stand by its alliance commitments and the preservation of an open and rules-based order in the Asia-Pacific. The United States has been a Pacific power for centuries committed to the principles of freedom of the seas since our founding.” “Going forward, the United States government must clearly communicate our interests before Chinese activity begins, rather than waiting for China to initiate a 'Gray Zone' maneuver that knocks us on our heels and limits our response.” Senator Sullivan’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, can be found here. # # #
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Statement by Senators McCain and Sullivan on South China Sea Arbitration Award Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), released the following statement on the Permanent Court of Arbitration’s award in the case of Philippines v. China concerning the South China Sea: “We welcome today’s award by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the case of The Republic of the Philippines v. The People’s Republic of China, and view it as binding on all parties involved. “Today’s completion of the arbitration process would not have been possible without the commitment of the Philippine government to pursue a course of action to resolve these maritime disputes peacefully, consistent with international law, and through international arbitration mechanisms. In the future, we encourage other South China Sea claimants, including Vietnam, to seek similar resolution of maritime disputes through arbitration as well as by negotiation among the parties. “With today’s award, China faces a choice. China can choose to be guided by international law, institutions, and norms. Or it can choose to reject them and pursue the path of intimidation and coercion. Too often in recent years, China has chosen the latter. The world will be watching to see the choice China makes. “The United States must continue to be clear and consistent in its policy to oppose unilateral actions by any claimant seeking to change the status quo in the South China Sea through the use of coercion, intimidation, unilateral declarations or military force; prevent any other country from exercising its rights to the resources of the exclusive economic zone; engage in any reclamation activities in the South China Sea; or militarize any reclaimed features. “In light of the findings of this ruling, we expect that the United States military will continue to fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows, as we have done in the Western Pacific for more than a century. This includes regularly challenging China’s excessive maritime claims and maintaining a persistent presence of surface combatants and rotational aviation assets inside the first-island chain. Moreover, the United States government must clearly communicate our interests in the South China Sea, including the prevention of reclamation and militarization at strategic locations like Scarborough Shoal that would alter the status quo and potentially destabilize the region. “We remain committed to our alliance with the Philippines and to our responsibilities under the Mutual Defense Treaty of 1951. We also look forward to further developing our longstanding relationship and alliance with the Philippines in the years ahead. As such, we urge Secretary Kerry to visit Manila and meet with President Duterte during his upcoming trip to the ASEAN Regional Forum.” ###
07.08.2016	07.08.16 Sullivan Comments on Interior’s Final Regulations for Drilling in the Arctic OCS WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of the Interior’s final regulations for drilling in the Arctic Outer Continental Shelf (OCS): “While I am still reviewing the specifics of this regulation, it is important to remember this alarming statistic: it took Shell 7 years and more than $7 billion to drill one exploratory well in less than 100 feet of water in the Arctic. This was a direct result of an overly burdensome regulatory environment created by the Obama administration. By the administration’s own estimate this regulation will add more than $2 billion in compliance costs over 10 years to Arctic OCS exploration, casting further uncertainty on the future of oil production in Alaska. So while some might view this announcement as a positive sign for future lease sales, it is clear that this decision continues a policy of overregulation and hostility toward responsible resource development that directly threatens American energy security and good job opportunities for all Alaskans and Americans at a time when our economy is struggling." ###
06.30.2016	06.30.16 Missile Defense Agency Moves Forward on Missile Defense Tests in Kodiak WASHINGTON, DC – Today the Alaska Congressional Delegation praised the announcement by the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) that it has awarded a sole source contract to the Alaska Aerospace Corporation (AAC) to support two flight tests of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense Systems (THAAD) at the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska on Kodiak, Alaska. The contract, which could total up to $80.4 million, will support MDA’s flight test requirements for the 3rd Quarter of Fiscal Year 2017 and will include the site preparation for two THAAD launchers, range communication and instrumentation capabilities, and a Life Support Area. This new development positions the Kodiak launch facility for a bright future in missile defense testing. “As I’ve been saying both in D.C. and back home, Alaska is the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today’s announcement by the Missile Defense Agency further reinforces that statement by adding missile defense testing to our already robust strategic capabilities at Fort Greely and Clear Air Force Station. This year and last year, I was able to include language in the Defense Authorization to specifically highlight the unique importance of the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska found on Kodiak Island. I am pleased that the Missile Defense Agency was listening, and I am confident that they will appreciate all that Kodiak has to offer for THAAD testing, including a community that strongly supports the military.” “This is the latest chapter in what’s been an exceptional year for military investment in our state,” said Senator Murkowski. “A significant portion of this contract is expected to be invested in new facilities on the Kodiak launch site – a much-needed boost for Alaska’s construction industry. This is proof once again that Alaska’s strategic and geographic advantages are highly desirable to national security decision-makers. But what distinguishes Alaska from competing locations is the exceptional support our people demonstrate for national defense and our defenders. Today’s decision is a big win for the military and a big win for Alaska’s economy, and welcome news as we prepare to celebrate our nation’s independence this July 4th.” “As a long-time advocate who helped bring missile defense to Alaska, this contract award is good news for Kodiak and Alaska Aerospace and even better news for the continued security of our country,” said Congressman Young. “Over the last several years, I have fought to bring the Missile Defense Agency back to Kodiak, including a provision I included in this year’s defense bill to help enhance the capability of state-owned spaceports, like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska. Overall, I can think of no better place to test THAAD than in Alaska and am happy that Kodiak will once again play an important role testing a part of our nation’s missile defense system.” BACKGROUND: Terminal High Altitude Area Defense Systems, or THAAD, is a U.S. Army weapon system intended to defend U.S. service members, allies and partners, cities and populations centers, and critical infrastructure against short- and medium-range ballistic missiles. THAAD is a land-based element of the Ballistic Missile Defense System and has been proven to be highly effective against ballistic missile threats. Currently, Fort Bliss, Texas hosts two THAAD batteries; Guam hosts another battery intended to protect against the North Korean missile threat to the island and our allies in the Asia-Pacific. Two U.S. allies in the Asia-Pacific – Japan and South Korea – are considering basing THAAD in their countries. ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Senators Pass Bill out of Committee to Give Fishermen Voice in Grant Process, Boost U.S. Seafood WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, S. 3087, the American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act, introduced by Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), passed unanimously out of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. The Saltonstall Kennedy (SK) Act, enacted in 1954, provides funding for fisheries research and development. These funds are derived from a portion of fishery import duties. To inform how these funds are allocated, Congress authorized a group of experts from different segments of the fishing industry to advise on commercial fishing problems and needs. Following a 1972 law, the original American Fisheries Advisory Committee was disbanded. As part of the S-K Act, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) administers a grant program. In the Committee’s absence, the National Marine Fisheries Service decides, by its own criteria, who receives grants. In some cases, the priorities of the fishing industry do not match those of NMFS. The American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act would bring back the board of experts, with members chosen regionally and across all sectors of the fishing industry, to bring the industry back into the process of identifying needs and funding priorities. In 2016, NMFS issued 50 grants worth $11 million. "Alaska is a superpower of seafood. In order to maintain that status, markets around the world need to know about the superior quality of our fish and the unrivaled sustainability of our fisheries,” said Senator Sullivan. “With a reestablished advisory committee, we will boost our seafood marketing and research by focusing federal grants on the actual priorities and needs of all segments of our commercial fishing industry: the fishermen, vessel owners, distributors and processors. With a revitalized fishery marketing program, we can expect to have more good-paying jobs for Alaskans in our state’s largest employing industry.” “The Saltonstall-Kennedy grants provide critical funding for fisheries research and development,” said Senator Cantwell. “Transparency is essential to improving the SK Grant program and meeting the needs of our fishing economies. We need to reinstate the industry committee so fishermen have a seat at the table.” “While Alaskans know that our seafood is world-class, this Advisory Committee will help spread the word across the globe,” said Senator Murkowski. “It will give Alaska’s seafood an edge in a very competitive world market. This bill makes important progress to improve marketing and research for American seafood products, providing a boost to a critical economic driver for our nation. It will also provide oversight, by fishermen, on how NOAA issues Saltsonstall-Kennedy grants.” ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Sullivan, Cantwell, Murkowski Applaud Committee Passage of Alternate Safety Compliance Program Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, S. 3088, legislation to provide increased fishing industry consultation and to ease the deadline for compliance with the pending Coast Guard Alternate Safety Compliance Program, introduced by Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), passed unanimously out of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. The 2010 and 2012 Coast Guard Authorization bills imposed a number of new safety requirements on fishing vessels. One of these new provisions required the Coast Guard to develop a program by 2017—the Alternate Safety Compliance Program—that would apply to certain fishing vessels in 2020. However, the fishing industry is concerned by the impending deadline and their ability to meet the requirements in time and in a cost effective manner. To help mitigate their concerns, S. 3088 would ease the burdensome compliance timelines, and encourage greater coordination between the Coast Guard and the commercial fishing industry. This legislative effort builds upon a recent letter to the Coast Guard led by Senators Cantwell and Sullivan, and Rep. Randy Weber (R-TX). “I thank my colleagues for advancing this commonsense legislation that will provide Alaska’s hardworking commercial fishing industry an increased role in the development of these new requirements,” said Senator Sullivan. “Fishermen take safety more seriously than anyone else—they’re the ones working on these boats, often with their children and other family, and this bill will help foster a more collaborative process between the Coast Guard and fishing industry, ensuring the ultimate goal of encouraging safe and vibrant fishing communities throughout the country.” “Working on the high seas will always carry with it certain risks, but fishermen have the right to a workplace where their safety is the top priority,” said Senator Cantwell. “Today’s bill ensures the Coast Guard collaborates with fishermen so that they can continue to operate in a safe and effective manner by making necessary improvements to the Coast Guard fishing vessel safety compliance program.” “We can all agree that improving the safety for our fishing fleet is important, but any proposed changes need to work for everyone involved,” said Senator Murkowski. “This bill is necessary to give the Coast Guard the time needed to analyze data and work with the fishing industry to develop targeted safety guidelines out on the water. It also provides the fishing industry with the tools needed to implement those safety measures efficiently.” ###
06.16.2016	06.16.16 Top Air Force General Commits to Looking at Alaska for Future KC-46 Basing, Says “Alaska is Strategic” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today received the commitment of General David Goldfein, nominee to be chief of staff of the U.S. Air Force, to travel to Alaska in his first year, should he be confirmed, and to look seriously at basing the KC-46 fuel tanker in Alaska in the upcoming Air Force decision. The exchange took place in a confirmation hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “With the Air Force’s recent decision to base two squadrons of F-35As at Eielson, placing the Air Force’s newest tanker aircraft in close proximity to our newest fighters – including the F-22s at JBER – just makes strategic sense,” said Senator Sullivan. “Taking into account Alaska’s strategic location, its rising role as the hub of combat air power for the Asia Pacific, world-class training areas, three Red Flag exercises each year, and more than one hundred fifth-generation fighters, the case for basing the KC-46 tanker at JBER or Eielson has never been stronger. I thank General Goldfein for acknowledging the unique military and geo-strategic qualities Alaska brings to the table, and I look forward to continuing the discussion on how to use Alaska’s advantages for the Air Force’s benefit.” Below is a transcript of the exchange between Sen. Sullivan and Gen. Goldfein: Sullivan: “But what do you look at in terms of characteristics for basing OCONUS (Outside the continental United States) KC-46s?” Goldfein: “Sir, we have a set criteria at a basing process that first lays out criteria. We share that criteria with the delegations and then we score bases based on that criteria that then produces a preferred candidate list. The preferred candidate list is where we actually then begin our site surveys.” Sullivan: “I’ll throw out a couple characteristics that I think are important: strategic location, hub of air combat power for the Asia-Pacific, world-class training areas, 24-7 NORAD mission that routinely intercepts Russian bombers, three Red Flag exercises a year, over a hundred fifth-generation fighters located there; C-17s, C-130s, F-16s. Do those sound like important characteristics?” Goldfein: “Yes, sir.” Sullivan: “Do you know what place I’m describing?” Goldfein: “Yes sir, and I think it was Billy Mitchell was right, it’s strategic, Alaska is strategic.” Sullivan: “So he called it ‘the most strategic place in the world.’ Is that important in terms of KC-46 basing?” Goldfein: “Sir, it’s actually important across all the mission sets of the United States Air Force.” Sullivan: “So can I get your commitment to take a very serious look at that when you’re making the OCONUS decision to take a look at Billy Mitchell’s place that he called ‘the most strategic place in the world’ as part of that?” Goldfein: “Yes, sir. Yes, sir. You have it.” ###
06.16.2016	06.16.16 Sullivan Convenes Polar Bear Summit to Resolve Concerns over Subsistence Quota WASHINGTON, DC – Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK) convened a summit between Alaskans from the North Slope and representatives with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the State Department regarding a dispute over the number of Chukchi Sea polar bears that may be harvested for subsistence purposes. The harvest of the bears is subject to a treaty between the U.S. and Russia. “Alaskans on the North Slope are very concerned about the real threat of criminal penalties for doing what their communities have had to do for centuries – harvesting polar bears to feed and support their families,” said Senator Sullivan. “In trying to resolve their concerns, Alaskans have had to travel from one federal agency to the next, often getting conflicting stories and a frustrating runaround. That’s why convening this summit in one place, where interested parties could ask questions and receive commitments in the presence of the other stakeholders, was so important.” Senator Lisa Murkowski joined Senator Sullivan at the summit in the Capitol on Thursday, June 9. Director of the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service Dan Ashe and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Fisheries David Balton attended the meeting, along with staff from each of their agencies. Representatives from the North Slope included Taqulik Hepa, director of the North Slope Borough Department of Wildlife Management, John Hopson, Jr., acting president of the North Slope Borough Assembly and mayor of Wainwright, and Sayers Tuzroyluk, president of Voice of the Arctic Inupiat. The treaty between the U.S. and Russia on the conservation of Chukchi Sea polar bears was agreed to in 2000. In 2007, Congress amended the Marine Mammal Protection Act to implement the agreement. In recent months, USFWS indicated it would be announcing penalties and enforcement measures for violations of the quota. “Without Senator Sullivan’s engagement on this polar bear issue, we would not be where we are today,” said Taqulik Hepa, following the summit. "Thanks to his efforts, Alaska Natives from across the state will continue to engage in subsistence activities as they have since time immemorial without fear of federal interference or prosecution. This was a big win for food security and the North Slope Borough is deeply grateful for the efforts of Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski in advocating for our hunters.” “I appreciate Director Ashe and Ambassador Balton for recognizing how important the polar bear harvest is to many Alaska communities, and the seriousness of the proposed penalties on Alaska Native hunters,” Senator Sullivan added. “Setting aside time to meet with the people whose lives are affected by these regulations is a good first step toward identifying a workable way forward. I also appreciate Taqulik, John, Sayers, and the other North Slope representatives for their patience, willingness to travel great lengths to meet with these federal officials, and determination in representing the interests of Alaskans." # # #
06.15.2016	06.15.16 Cantwell, Sullivan Introduce Bill to Bolster Marine Mammal Rescue and Response Legislation would create database to track stranded marine mammals, ocean health WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) introduced the Marine Mammal Research and Response Act of 2016, a bill that would strengthen the government’s efforts to protect and preserve marine mammals such as orcas, seals, sea lions, and sea otters. The Act would reauthorize and expand the NOAA John H. Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue Grant Program, the primary funding source for organizations that rescue and rehabilitate sick or injured marine mammals. “Investing in the health and wellbeing of our marine mammals is a bipartisan issue that is worthy of our attention,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “I am pleased to work with Senator Cantwell on this legislation that supports and strengthens the important work of the Alaska Sea Life Center in Seward, and other similar institutions across the country.” “Orcas, whales and other marine mammals are iconic symbols in the Pacific Northwest. Prescott grants are critical in the rescue and response to many of these animals in Washington, including the rescue of Springer the Orca,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “The Prescott Grant Program is an excellent example of partnership between government, nonprofit organizations and research institutions. Through increased information sharing and collaboration, we can ensure healthier marine mammal populations.” The Prescott program helps defray the costs of marine mammal rescue, rehabilitation, and data-collection for members of the National Marine Mammal Stranding Network. Members of the Network are often small, locally-funded volunteer organizations. The Cantwell-Sullivan bill creates the Marine Mammal Health Map, a new online portal that will enable agencies, nonprofits, and the scientific community to aggregate valuable data on marine mammal strandings in a single location. Such improvements to data accessibility will allow scientists to better identify mammal health trends, including potential human health risks, as well as trends in the ocean overall. The portal would also improve organizations’ rapid response capabilities, allowing them to quickly reach and provide care to stranded and entangled marine mammals. The bill also makes Prescott grants available for organizations to assist entangled marine mammals caught in derelict fishing gear and trash, which is an increasing threat to humpback and gray whales on the West Coast. Previously, the program only applied to animals stranded on land. Dr. Joe Gaydos, Wildlife Veterinarian and Chief Scientist for the UC Davis SeaDoc Society program said, “This new bill is exciting. It will facilitate the rapid diagnosis and reporting of diseases that not only impact marine mammal health, but also are dangerous to humans. The health of wildlife, our oceans and people are intimately connected and this reauthorization of the JHPMMRR Grant Program recognizes that and addresses it in a way that benefits all three of these important factors.” The Marine Mammal Research and Response Act of 2016 would also: Require NOAA and the Marine Mammal Commission to analyze marine mammal response capabilities in the Arctic, where coverage is sparse, yet human activity is increasing; Expand access to rapid funding to enable emergency response to marine mammal health needs, such are harmful algal blooms and other large stranding events; Require a report to Congress to analyze the gaps in marine mammal rescue and response across the United States; Increase authorization for the program to $7 million for fiscal years 2017 to 2022; Require that data collected under the program is made publically available to facilitate additional research and improve data archiving; Expand grants to for species under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, to ensure otters, walruses, and polar bears are receive adequate funding. # # #
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Sullivan Fights for Arctic and Alaska Defense Priorities Secures twenty-three provisions in the National Defense Authorization Bill WASHINGTON, DC – Today the United States Senate, with U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan’s (R-AK) support, passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 by a vote of 85-13. This bill authorizes $602 billion in critical defense spending and includes numerous Arctic and Alaska priorities. “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I know that our military depends on the annual defense authorization to ensure that our fighting men and women have everything they need to protect our nation against an increasingly complex and diverse array of global threats,” said Senator Sullivan. “From near-peer adversaries like a resurgent Russia and an emergent China, to unstable and unpredictable threats from ISIS and North Korea, I fought to include provisions in this bill that will ensure that our troops get the best equipment and training, and that our nation is assertively responding to growing threats in regions like the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic. “Our servicemen and women know that the United States military is still the greatest, most well-trained, and best-equipped force anywhere in the world. While not perfect, this legislation also makes some important structural reforms – such as reducing the number of National Security Council staff and cutting red tape in the Pentagon – to ensure that our military is more efficient and even more lethal.” Provisions secured by Senator Sullivan: Working with many of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan successfully included 23 provisions in the Senate-passed version of the FY 2017 NDAA. His amendments advanced initiatives that will play an important role in ensuring Alaska’s and America’s long-term security. Arctic Strategic Port Designation: “The Arctic is a rapidly growing area of strategic importance and many of our security leaders acknowledge that we’re late to recognize that fact. Last year, I pushed the Department of Defense to write a new, threat-based strategy for the Arctic and this year, I included long-overdue language to drive development of critical port infrastructure in the Arctic to address increasing activity and mission requirements. As we continue to fight for icebreakers and increased presence in the Arctic, we must also plan for the docks and infrastructure needed to better supply and sustain that added presence,” Senator Sullivan said. Senator Sullivan’s amendment requires the secretary of defense – in coordination with the Coast Guard and other relevant federal agencies – to both create the designation and associated criteria for a “Strategic Arctic Port” and submit a plan, within two years, to begin the process of designating, and where needed, developing the infrastructure needed. Missile Defense: “Last week, I visited the Demilitarized Zone on the Korean Peninsula,” Senator Sullivan said. “The morning of my visit, North Korea conducted another missile test off its eastern coast. While that test failed, North Korea’s investment in advancing ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs means that these tests will not always end in failure. As a result, our nation’s missile defense system is more important than ever, and in order to ensure the system’s effectiveness, give confidence to the warfighters, and provide a credible deterrent to rogue nations, I believe that we need to visibly test our critical missile defense apparatus at least once a year.” Senator Sullivan’s amendment mandates that the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) conduct a flight test at least once per year to show Americans and, more importantly, North Korea that we have a missile defense system that will protect this country – and its citizens – from the irrational threats and actions of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. Additional Strategic Priorities for Alaska: “I’ve often said that Alaska has a triad of military power, and in this bill, I worked to reaffirm that triad,” said Senator Sullivan. “I successfully fought to include provisions to help ensure Alaska’s F-35As arrive with the maintainers they need to fly, and to show congressional affirmation for the Army’s decision to halt the reduction of the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team. Additionally, I was pleased to include the Rural Guard Act, first sponsored by Congressman Don Young, ensuring that Alaska Guardsmen living in remote locations no longer have to pay out of pocket just to go to training.” Background on Senator Sullivan Provisions: Missile Defense Defend and Deter Act: This amendment requires the Missile Defense Agency to conduct a flight test of the ground-based midcourse defense segment of the ballistic missile defense system, like those at Ft. Greely, at least once every fiscal year. Arctic Strategic Port Designation: This important amendment would require the secretary of defense – consulting with the Coast Guard and others – to create the designation of a “strategic Arctic port” to create a security need for appropriate investment of surge-type infrastructure in the Arctic. The intention is to allow for better response to maritime warning, search and rescue, and oil spill response missions, among others. High Cost Energy Report: This amendment requires a long-overdue and much-needed report on the Department of Defense’s efforts to reduce the cost of energy at the installations that need it most, those in the highest 20% of all military installations, like many of those in Alaska. KC-46 OCONUS Basing: Given Alaska’s status as the hub of combat airpower, with the F-35A squadrons, large F-22 presence, and other strategically located aviation assets, this amendment expresses the sense of Congress that the Air Force should give basing preference to airbases that have ample training opportunities, a strategic location, and sufficient airfield and airspace—characteristics that are abundantly found in Alaska—when considering OCONUS locations for basing the KC-46A. Remote Travel Reimbursement for National Guard Members: This amendment allows the secretary of defense to authorize higher reimbursement to reservists and guardsmen that reside in the same state as the inactive duty training location, reside outside of a population of 50,000 or more, or must commute via aircraft or boat from a distance of 75 miles or greater. Congressional Support for Keeping the 4-25 Brigade Combat Team in Alaska: This amendment states the support of senior DoD leadership for the decision to halt the reduction of Alaska’s 4-25 IBCT (ABN), affirms the importance of forward-based forces like the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) to deterring aggression, and encourages the Army to reassess its force structure based on the changing global security environment. Arctic Search and Rescue Report: This amendment directs the DOD to develop a strategic plan for resourcing Arctic capabilities like the Arctic Sustainment Package (ASP) and the tactics, techniques, and procedures required to test and deploy these capabilities. FAA State-Sponsored Spaceports: This amendment highlights the unique importance of the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska (PSCA) on Kodiak Island and expresses the belief that this facility can be used to support the national security space program from the Department of Defense (DOD), Air Force Space Command, Operationally Responsive Space Office, and Missile Defense Agency. HH-60/Combat Rescue Helicopter Report: This amendment ensures that the HH-60G (the helicopter that the Alaska Air National Guard Combat Rescue Squadron flies) continues to be maintained, aircrew trained, and supported until Alaska gets the new Combat Rescue Helicopters in 2027-2028. Innovative Readiness Training (IRT): This amendment expresses the understanding of the value of the IRT program and encourages the Department of Defense to continue to utilize the IRT for programs across the country, including ones in Alaska, such as the runway construction in Old Harbor and Operation Arctic Care (roving medical and dental care in rural Alaskan villages). High-Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) Land Transfer: This amendment directs the U.S. Air Force to convey the HAARP facility to the University of Alaska, and its surrounding areas to AHTNA, Inc., which originally owned the underlying land. Senator Sullivan worked closely with Senator Lisa Murkowski and Congressman Don Young on this important issue. Galena Land Transfer: A priority of the Alaska congressional delegation, this amendment transfers 1,300 acres of land from the U.S. Air Force on Campion Air Force Radar Station to the town of Galena. ###
06.13.2016	06.13.16 Delegation Comments on Alaska Changes Within VA Choice Program WASHINGTON, DC – The Department of Veterans Affairs has informed Alaska’s congressional delegation that as of July 10, 2016, the scheduling for Choice Act medical appointments in Alaska will revert back to being handled by local VA integrated care personnel, instead of its current practice of outsourcing scheduling requests to contractor-operated call centers in the Lower 48. The delegation has been demanding this change after hearing from numerous Alaska veterans who have been ill-served by the new VA system established after the Choice Act was passed in 2014. “I am pleased that after numerous hearings in D.C. and in Alaska, the VA is finally working to tailor the ‘one-size-fits-none’ Veterans Choice Program, to fit the unique needs of Alaska’s veterans,” Senator Sullivan said. “Importantly, that fix begins with giving Alaskans back more local control over their healthcare. As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I have been relentless in been pushing senior members of the VA to implement necessary changes to the Choice Act. However, there is still much work to be done and Alaska veterans should know that I will continue to hold the VA's feet to fire until each and every Alaskan veteran gets the healthcare they were promised and deserve. Our nation owes it to them and I am committed to making sure the VA delivers on that debt.” “With medical appointments now being handled by local VA personnel, I am confident our veterans will be better served. This is a small but important step toward addressing the failings of the Choice Card,” said Senator Murkowski. “As a member of the VA Appropriations Subcommittee, I obtained language demanding the VA fully reinstate the successful Alaska community care model it maintained before the Choice Act was enacted. Before the Choice program was implemented, local VA employees placed veterans with community providers, maintained the provider relationships, and paid the bills. This announcement fixes part of the problem. The VA proposes to fix one facet of that problem but provider acceptance of Choice remains problematic. I’m still not sold that the Choice Card provides meaningful choice for Alaska veterans.” “The implementation of the VA Choice Program in Alaska was nothing short of disastrous,” said Congressman Don Young. “We’ve heard countless accounts from veterans and VA personnel that our system has left many Alaskans without answers, without access, and without timely and adequate healthcare. This is unacceptable and does not reflect our nation’s solemn commitment to the more than 77,000 veterans who call Alaska home. Although not a silver bullet to the VA’s shortcomings, the Alaska-specific solutions announced today are an important step forward. Having designated scheduling staff in state, rather than staff in the lower 48 without any understanding of Alaska’s size or transportation challenges, works to resolve a major issue we’ve seen in recent years. Both Senators and I are fully committed to ensuring all those that served our nation receive the benefits they earned and are owed.” ###
06.12.2016	06.12.16 Sullivan Statement on Orlando Shooting WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement in response to the tragic shooting in Orlando, Florida: "I join with my fellow Alaskans and the country in mourning the horrific acts of violence and terrorism in Florida. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families, friends and to the state of Florida. The killer, regardless of official ties to ISIS or any other extreme Islamic terrorist organization, shared their goal of destroying everything that binds us together and makes our country great. We are all Americans regardless of race, religion or sexual orientation. We must remain strong and vigilant and do everything we can to defeat these extremists at home and abroad." ###
06.08.2016	06.08.16 Sullivan, Ernst, Gardner Conclude Productive CODEL to East Asia WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) returned this week from a congressional delegation trip to South Korea, Burma, Singapore, Taiwan and Japan focused on critical issues underpinning U.S. relations in the region, including strengthening our security ties, growing trade opportunities to bolster American exports, and promoting homegrown American energy. “Our visit reinforced that America has a wealth of allies, especially in Asia, and this wealth is a comparative advantage over our adversaries,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “However, America’s allies in this region face some of the most serious geopolitical challenges in a generation – from the escalating threats made by the rogue and unstable North Korean regime, to an aggressive military build-up by the Chinese amid the busy shipping lanes of the South China Sea. Now is the time to hold faith with our friends, whose stability and strength hold the key to peace in this region where more than 30 percent of the world’s people reside.” "As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I all too often hear from world leaders about the lack of leadership coming from the White House. Throughout the week, we heard time and again from countries who felt that this administration has let them down," said Senator Joni Ernst. “Many of these countries are critical partners, not only for our strategic national defense interests, but also for our economic growth as we work to develop new trade avenues for American goods and services. Our focus throughout the trip was to reaffirm Congress' commitment to these nations. I look forward to continuing to work to strengthen our partnership for years to come.” “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with top government officials and military commanders to discuss economic and security challenges in the Pacific region and the role of the United States in addressing them,” said Senator Cory Gardner. “In South Korea, military experts and government leaders echoed many of my grave concerns regarding North Korea’s recent ballistic missile tests and continued aggression. South Korean leaders were encouraged by the implementation of my North Korea Sanctions legislation, but urged additional pressure on the regime. I reiterated my commitment to working to ensure the Obama Administration fully implements the sanctions outlined in my legislation, including sanctions against human rights violators and individuals responsible for malicious cyber-attacks. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cyber Security Policy, I look forward to continuing to work with our allies in the region to address the challenges impacting the Pacific and the U.S. relationship.” REPUBLIC OF KOREA: While in Korea, the delegation met with General Brooks, commander of U.S. Forces - Korea about the security situation on the peninsula, visited the Demilitarized Zone – the border between South and North Korea – and also met with a recent high-level North Korean defector. BURMA: In Burma, the delegation visited the capital city of Naypyidaw and met with senior level government officials as well as Nobel Peace prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi and discussed the ongoing transition to democracy. SINGAPORE: In Singapore, the congressional delegation joined Armed Services Committee Chairman Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and several other U.S. senators in attending the Shangri La Dialogue (SLD) – an annual regional security forum that brings together defense ministers from over 20 Asia-Pacific countries to discuss on-going security issues in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region. At the SLD, the U.S. delegation met with the ministers of defense for Japan and Korea, and encouraged improving trilateral cooperation between our three countries to more effectively respond to contingencies in the Pacific and on the Korean peninsula. TAIWAN: In Taiwan, the delegation met with the newly elected President, Ms. Tsai Ing-wen. JAPAN: On their return trip to the United States, the delegation briefly visited Japan and met with U.S. Ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy. ‎ ###
06.08.2016	06.08.16 Sullivan Applauds Indian Prime Minister Modi’s Address to Congress WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after attending Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s joint address to Congress: “I want to extend my deep respect and thank Prime Minister Modi for his remarks to Congress today. His visit reflects both the continuation of the strong bilateral relationship between our two countries, as well as an era of new partnerships on many fronts. “U.S.-India economic ties have expanded for the last several decades. Trade between our two countries has become one of the most important relationships in the global marketplace – an issue important to Alaska, which has strong economic interests in the Asia-Pacific. We are also now on the verge of deepening our strategic and military ties as well. “I recently returned from a congressional trip to Asia, where I met with senior officials in South Korea, Myanmar, Singapore, Taiwan, and Japan and evaluated U.S. influence in the region, and pressed for deeper economic and energy ties with Alaska. It’s critical that we continue to forge and foster partnerships with allies like these. Therefore, I offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that strengthens our military ties with India by promoting exchanges between U.S. and Indian military officials at senior levels. The future of our relationship should encompass every pillar needed to make it a true alliance. By doing this, we can ensure the most promising opportunities for people in both our great nations. “Finally, Prime Minister Modi emphasized the importance of freedom and individual liberty as pillars of democracy. I share in this belief with the prime minister and believe his vision will be transformational for India and for the future of U.S.-India relations.” ###
05.29.2016	05.29.16 Senator Sullivan Releases Special Memorial Day Message WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following video message in observance of Memorial Day. “Memorial Day holds a special significance to those of us who wear the uniform and to the families and communities who sustain us. On this day we not only honor the fallen but take time to remember those who are still missing. “Words cannot express and monuments cannot console the heartfelt loss we feel. “But we have a solemn obligation to mark this day in honor of their loss and reflect on our own commitment and responsibility to ensure their sacrifice was not in vain. “Today, young warriors from Alaska and across our great country are in harm’s way, in combat serving in distant and hostile lands. As we take time to remember our fallen, let’s also remember to pray for our young men and women serving to keep us free, and lets also remember their families – who are also serving and sacrificing for their country. “I believe the greatest tribute we can show our fallen is to honor their memory by not squandering their legacy. We must take this opportunity to remember that, for free men and women, sustaining liberty is the responsibility of each and every one of us, and that freedom requires sacrifice. “It is my highest honor to serve our great state; a state that understands the commitment of selfless service and sacrifice and the importance of sustaining our brave military members – both active duty and in the Guard and Reserve – and their families. “Thank you and God Bless America.” ###
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Sullivan Holds Hearing on the Implementation of WOTUS WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife, chaired a hearing yesterday entitled, “Erosion of Exemptions and Expansion of Federal Control – Implementation of the Definition of Waters of the United States.” The principal topic of discussion was how the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are expanding federal control over land and water, including implementing the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule to the Clean Water Act—despite a stay on the rule issued by a federal court and no change in law—and how regulatory overreach is stifling businesses and hurting our economy and private property rights. Among the witnesses presenting was Damien Schiff, an attorney for the Pacific Legal Foundation, who is representing a business in Fairbanks, Alaska. The business has outgrown its current location and wants to expand to a neighboring location which the firm has acquired. The Corps, however, has asserted jurisdiction over the property’s approximately 200 acres of permafrost, claiming the acreage constitutes a “wetland.” Permafrost can be found beneath 80 percent of Alaska. This is in direct contradiction to congressional testimony from the EPA administrator and federal law. Because of the expense and the permitting that will be involved if the Corps claims jurisdiction, the business has had to resort to filing suit in federal court. Other testimony centered on how WOTUS is being used to stifle farmers and homebuilders. “The stories from today’s witnesses are incredible,” Senator Sullivan said. “Not only do the EPA and the Corps think frozen ground is a water of the United States, but federal agencies are asserting authority over even more features… The EPA and the Corps are bypassing Congress and ducking Supreme Court rulings to get to these jurisdictional conclusions, and this is all happening even though the WOTUS Rule has been stayed by a federal appeals court. “It is imperative that we talk about what is happening around the country and bring to light the realities of this overregulation that is happening with little to no legal authority. The EPA has effectively given itself the power to dictate infrastructure policy in Alaska, and all over the country,” Senator Sullivan said. Watch the full hearing here: http://1.usa.gov/1WdyIoU ###
05.20.2016	05.20.16 Sullivan Urges Ban of Russian Team from Rio Olympics Pending Doping Investigation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today wrote International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach expressing concern over recent reports that the Russian government – including President Vladimir Putin – endorsed a widespread doping program over several past Olympic Games and a variety of sporting events. Sullivan holds the seat of the late Senator Ted Stevens who was responsible for 1978 legislation that established the U.S. Olympic Committee. Sullivan called on the IOC, pending the results of an investigation, to ban the Russian team from competing in the upcoming Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. “For more than a century, the Olympic Games have been recognized as the world’s premier setting for the most exceptional and well-trained athletes from a variety of sports to compete on the same stage, with fair and consistent standards, ultimately recognizing the best for their achievements,” Senator Sullivan wrote. “However, due to recent allegations of a widespread doping program employed by the Russian Federation, allegedly at the direction of President Vladimir Putin, I believe that both the confidence in the competitive process and the spirit of respect among nations are being increasingly undermined.” Last November, the World Anti-Doping Agency revoked the accreditation of Russia’s main drug testing lab leading to the suspension of Russia’s track and field federation from international competition. The agency has since been conducting an investigation into a larger Russian doping program across a number of sports. “Once the World Anti-Doping Agency’s investigation is complete, it is incumbent on the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to act swiftly and send a strong message that violations of the rules of the Games will not be tolerated. The IOC’s response will determine whether and to what degree the confidence of our athletes can be restored,” Senator Sullivan wrote. Senator Sullivan also asked the IOC to investigate how Russia’s alleged doping program may have impacted past competitions, and if found guilty, revoke athlete medals for past violations. Senator Sullivan concluded, “To restore confidence in the Games, past violations should also be dealt with by revoking any medals awarded to athletes found in violation of the IOC’s rules, and properly recognizing the competitors who rightfully earned those medals. Athletes who have devoted their lives to this competition deserve nothing less.” To read the full letter from Senator Sullivan to IOC President Bach, CLICK HERE. ###
05.18.2016	05.18.16 Murkowski, Sullivan, Young Press Interior on Alaska OCS Development Urge Department to Keep Alaska Lease Sales in Upcoming Five-Year Program Washington, D.C. – Alaska’s congressional delegation – Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan and Rep. Don Young – on Tuesday sent a letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell urging the Department to keep all three lease sales proposed for Alaska’s OCS in the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management’s (BOEM) final Five-Year Program for the years 2017 to 2022. “The areas under consideration for leasing in Alaska’s OCS contain vast resources that our nation will need to maintain its economy and security. Those resources can be produced safely if a stable, predictable regulatory regime is put in place. Bringing them to market is favored by most Alaskans and will help maintain affordable energy prices for the American people. With longer lead times and considerable investment required for production in the Alaska OCS, it is critical that the process begin now with new, area-wide lease sales,” the members wrote. The congressional delegation also expressed frustration with the Interior Department’s actions to stifle energy development in the Arctic. The Department has delayed and canceled lease sales that were scheduled for Alaska’s OCS, and included just three lease sales for Alaska in its Proposed Five-Year Program: one in the Beaufort Sea, in 2020; one in the Cook Inlet, in 2021; and one in the Chukchi Sea, in 2022. The Beaufort and Chukchi Seas off of Alaska’s northern coast contain an estimated 23.6 billion barrels of oil and 104.4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. An analysis by Northern Economics and the Institute for Social and Economic Research found that development of those resources could create 35,000 jobs and generate billions of dollars in revenues for the state and local governments. Offshore development is also strongly supported by Alaskans, with a 2014 poll finding that 73 percent of local residents support Arctic drilling. After outlining the economic benefits that would come to Alaska and the nation with expanded energy development in Alaska’s OCS, the delegation concluded the letter by urging Secretary Jewell to keep Alaska’s OCS leases in the proposed plan. “We ask that you recognize Alaska’s strong preference for expanded OCS development within the Five-Year Program for 2017-2022. We urge you to maintain all three proposed sales for the Alaska OCS in the final Program. We also encourage you to work collaboratively with us to make the fundamental regulatory improvements that are necessary to prudently advance the development of the critical resources located in our state,” the members wrote. Murkowski, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, will press the administration to maintain its proposed lease sales in Alaska’s OCS at Thursday’s oversight hearing on BOEM’s 2017-2022 OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Program. Full text of the letter is attached and available on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee website. ###
05.18.2016	05.18.16 Senate Passes Sullivan-Schatz-Markey International Fisheries Bill Bipartisan Legislation Will Implement Pacific and Atlantic Fisheries Treaties WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. Senate unanimously passed S.1335, the Ensuring Access to Fisheries Act. The bipartisan legislation, introduced by U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i), and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), will implement treaties ratified by the Senate last year to better manage certain fisheries in the North and South Pacific and the North Atlantic. “The Ensuring Access to Fisheries Act will rightfully give the United States a voice and assert our influence in both the fisheries management and conservation decisions in the high seas areas covered by these treaties,” said Senator Sullivan. “Doing so will provide opportunities for our fishermen in the future, and help to protect their current activities for generations to come.” “I thank Senator Sullivan and Senator Markey for their work to bring our oceans into international conservation and management,” said Senator Schatz. “With the parts of this legislation that Senator Sullivan and I drafted, we have brought the remaining Pacific fisheries under international management. Our legislation gives the U.S. an opportunity to ensure that our oceans are managed sustainably now and for the future.” “Fish do not follow political boundary lines on a map,” said Senator Markey. “International cooperation is essential to ensure healthy fishery resources in the North Atlantic and across the globe. I thank Senators Schatz and Sullivan for their partnership on this effort and look forward to getting this legislation signed by the President.” Together with other existing treaties S.1335 would bring all high seas fisheries in the Pacific Ocean under international management bodies to ensure access for U.S. fishermen, and responsible management of ocean resources. The bill will also implement updates to the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Convention to better manage international North Atlantic fisheries. To streamline consideration, Senators Markey and Schatz combined their fisheries legislation—S. 1251, the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Convention Amendments Act, and S. S. 1336, the South Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act. ###
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Sullivan Chairs Hearing on Marine Debris WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee’s Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a hearing today entitled “Marine Debris and Wildlife: Impacts, Sources, and Solutions,” exploring the sources of marine debris, its impacts on wildlife populations, and potential solutions to this issue. “Alaska is home to more coastline than the contiguous United States, and is disproportionately affected by the crisis we are seeing with marine debris,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today the state is still dealing with the impacts of marine debris that made its way across thousands of miles of ocean following the devastating March 2011 earthquake off the coast of Japan and the subsequent tsunami. Along with Gulf of Alaska Keeper, represented in Congress by Mr. Pallister today, Alaskans are conducting important response and research work, including the Sitka Sound Science Center, and the Alaska Pinniped Entanglement Group — a coalition of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, the Aleut Community of St. Paul Island, and NOAA, focused on freeing tangled marine mammals. "While the problem of marine debris is apparent, there is clearly work to be done to identify effective strategies to prevent further pollution of the marine environment and mitigate the harm caused to our wildlife, which is why this hearing is so important," Senator Sullivan said. Witnesses at today’s hearing included Chris Pallister, president and co-founder of Gulf of Alaska Keeper, who shared his experience leading clean-ups in Alaska and testified about the primary international contributors to marine debris. Also testifying today were Jim Kurth, deputy director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Dr. Jenna Jambeck, associate professor of environmental engineering at the University of Georgia, Nicholas Mallos, director of the Trash Free Seas Program at the Ocean Conservancy, and Jonathan Stone, executive director of “Save the Bay.” To view the full hearing, go to: http://www.epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/hearings?ID=39FD807A-6BBA-4E83-8E9E-5A5DFF81C66B ###
05.16.2016	05.16.16 Anchorage Land Transfer Bill Headed to President’s Desk Authorizes Transfer of 9 Acres to Municipality of Anchorage WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation introduced by Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Congressman Don Young (R-AK) to allow for the sale of nine acres of unused and undeveloped federal property to the Municipality of Anchorage. S. 1492 facilitates the conveyance of the National Archives and Records Administration property located at 400 East 40th Avenue in Anchorage to the Municipality for no less than fair market value. “Working closely alongside Congressman Young, I am pleased to see this commonsense land transfer – which for years has been met with Senate gridlock – headed to the President’s desk for his signature,” said Senator Sullivan. “This legislation has a number of concrete benefits for all stakeholders: Taxpayers will see the sale of the land go toward paying down the federal debt and streamlining the long, costly administrative process, the Archives will be able to offload a property it no longer needs, and the Municipality will be able to acquire a valuable plot of developable land, which is increasingly scarce in the Anchorage area. This legislation is long overdue." “This federal land transfer is a win-win for all those involved: it saves the American taxpayer money by reducing the federal government’s growing footprint of unused properties, it provides the people of Anchorage significant benefit, and it fulfills a need for new growth and economic development within Alaska,” said Congressman Don Young. “As I’ve said before, this legislation is a prime example of how Congress should work – identify a problem or issue, build broad support, and pass commonsense solutions on behalf of your constituents. After more than three years of working on this legislation, I’m very excited to see this land in the hands of the Municipality. I commend Senator Sullivan, and countless others, for working to make this legislation a reality; it truly was a team effort.” S. 1492, which has the support of Anchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz and was supported by former Mayor Dan Sullivan, would specifically direct the General Services Administration, on behalf of the National Archives, to convey the property in Anchorage to the Municipality. The National Archives has determined that it no longer needs the property and supports the sale as part of its efforts to reduce costs to the taxpayer and shrink its overall footprint. The bill will require fair market value based on highest and best use for the property, determined by an independent appraisal. Congressman Young is the sponsor of H.R. 336, companion to S. 1492, which passed the House on June 1, 2015. Congressman Young previously passed identical legislation in the House during the 113th Congress. ###
05.14.2016	05.14.16 Senator Sullivan Delivers The Republican Weekly Address ‘The DNA of America is based on the promise of progress but that is losing out to President Obama’s surrender and his “new normal” economy…But it doesn’t have to be this way.’ WASHINGTON, DC – In the Weekly Republican Address, Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, discusses our nation’s lack of economic growth under the Obama Administration. “Our economy is stagnant...We can do so much better for America. But President Obama tells us differently. He lowers expectations by calling his very weak economic record the ‘new normal.” Sen. Sullivan says, “Strong economic growth made the United States the greatest country on earth. We have a moral imperative to recognize that we have experienced a lost decade of economic growth and opportunity, and we have to change this.” The audio of the address is available here, the video is available to watch here and you may download the address here. A full transcript of the address follows: “I’m Dan Sullivan, and I’m proud to represent the great state of Alaska in the U.S. Senate. “Today, I want to talk to you about the economy—one of the most critical issues facing our country—and about the lost decade of economic growth under the Obama Administration. “A few weeks ago, it was announced that America’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at only one half of one percent during the first quarter of 2016. Gross Domestic Product is an important indicator of the health of our economy, it measures progress—the essence of the American dream. 0.5 percent GDP growth is a reminder of what we already know. Our economy is stagnant. The American dream has become a mirage for millions of American families. “The average annual GDP growth rate for America is nearly 4 percent. The Obama Administration’s annual rate has been about 1.5 percent; in fact they’ve never even hit 3 percent GDP growth in one quarter. We can do so much better for America. But President Obama tells us differently. He lowers expectations by calling his very weak economic record the ‘new normal.’ He has even taken to bragging about his administration’s economic record. “In a recent speech, he actually said that we are ‘better off today than we were just seven years ago.’ He said that anybody who tells you differently is ‘not telling the truth.’ “Well, I hate to tell the president this, but even former President Bill Clinton said this about the Obama economy: ‘millions and millions and millions of people look at that pretty picture of America President Obama painted and they can’t find themselves in it.’ “It’s not hard to see why they can’t find themselves in President Obama’s pretty picture: During nearly 8 years of the Obama Administration, the number of Americans participating in the labor force is now at its lowest rate since 1978. People are just giving up looking for a job. More Americans have fallen into poverty. Family paychecks have declined and the number of people on food stamps has skyrocketed by 40 percent, all during the Obama years. The percentage of Americans who own homes—a marker of the promise of the American Dream—is down 5.2 percent. “And more and more Americans believe that we are on the wrong track and that their kids will not be as well off as they are today. “The DNA of America is based on the promise of progress but that is losing out to President Obama’s surrender and his ‘new normal’ economy. “Something is terribly wrong in our country when a leading Democrat recently bragged that ‘we’re going to put a lot of coal miners and a lot of coal companies out of business.’ But it doesn’t have to be this way. “Strong economic growth made the United States the greatest country on earth. “We have a moral imperative to recognize that we have experienced a lost decade of economic growth and opportunity, and we have to change this. “We have a moral imperative to recognize what pervasive poverty does to our citizens—it creates holes in the social fabric that holds us together—and how, when our own citizens fall through the holes, a piece of all of us goes with them. Because although we are individuals, we are all in this together as Americans. “We have a moral imperative to grow our economy again and create economic opportunity for middle class families. “We are the United States of America. Our economy and workers have been the envy of the world for decades. The economic future for our children can be limitless if we have a federal government that is a partner in opportunity, not the obstacle that it is today. But in order to do all of this, we’re going to need a change in Washington—a change that doesn’t settle for the ‘new normal’ economy. “We can, we will, and we must reach our full economic potential as Americans. Thank you.” ###
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Sullivan Fights for Alaska Priorities in National Defense Authorization Bill WASHINGTON, DC – The Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday, with U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan’s (R-AK) support, passed out of committee legislation to authorize $602 billion in critical defense spending for Fiscal Year 2017. “A critical piece of legislation, the National Defense Authorization Act sets our nation's security priorities and allocates the resources our military needs to rapidly respond to threats against the homeland and across the globe,” Senator Dan Sullivan said. “Today the world faces an increasingly aggressive Russia in the Arctic, a rogue North Korean regime testing nuclear weapons, China’s militarization of reefs in some of the world’s busiest shipping lanes, and continuing disarray in the Middle East. Now is the time to implement necessary reforms, support our servicemen and women, and send a signal that the United States military remains the greatest, best-equipped force for good anywhere in the world." Working with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan successfully included 22 amendments in the Senate mark-up of the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. His amendments advanced initiatives that will play an important role in Alaska and America’s security. Arctic Strategic Port Designation: “From the Secretary of Defense to the Commandant of the Coast Guard, many agree we are woefully behind in the Arctic,” Senator Sullivan said. “Last year, I drove the Department of Defense to write a new Arctic strategy that focuses on real threats in the region. This year, I doubled-down and included language to drive the development of critical port infrastructure in the Arctic to address increasing activity and mission requirements.” Senator Sullivan’s amendment requires the Secretary of Defense – in coordination with the Coast Guard and others – to both create the designation and associated criteria for a “Strategic Arctic Port” and submit a plan, within two years, to begin the process of designation. Missile Defense: “With North Korea’s rapidly advancing ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs, our nation’s missile defense system is more important than ever,” Senator Sullivan said. “However, in order to ensure its effectiveness, give confidence to the warfighters, and provide a credible deterrent to rogue nations, we need to visibly test the system at least once a year.” Senator Sullivan’s amendment mandates that the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) conduct a flight test at least once per year to show Americans and, more importantly, North Korea that we have a missile defense system that works. Additional Strategic Priorities for Alaska: “I’ve often said that Alaska has a triad of military power, and in this bill, I worked to reaffirm that triad,” said Senator Sullivan. “I successfully fought to include provisions to help ensure Alaska’s F-35As arrive with the maintainers they need to fly, and to show congressional support for the Army’s decision to halt the reduction of the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team. Additionally, I was pleased to include the Rural Guard Act, first sponsored by Alaska’s Congressman Don Young, ensuring that Alaska Guardsmen living in remote locations no longer have to pay out of pocket to merely go to training.” Background on Senator Sullivan Amendments: Missile Defense – Defend and Deter Act: This amendment requires the Missile Defense Agency to conduct a flight test of the ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile defense system, like those at Ft. Greely, at least once every fiscal year. Arctic Strategic Port Designation: This important amendment would require the Secretary of Defense – consulting with the Coast Guard and others – to create the designation of a “strategic Arctic port” to create a security need for appropriate investment of surge-type infrastructure in the Arctic. The intention is to allow for better response to maritime warning, search and rescue, and oil spill response missions, among others. High-Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) Land Transfer: This amendment directs the U.S. Air Force to convey the HAARP facility to the University of Alaska, and its surrounding areas to AHTNA, Inc., which originally owned the underlying land. Senator Sullivan worked closely with Senator Lisa Murkowski and Congressman Don Young on this important issue. Galena Land Transfer: A priority of the Alaska Congressional delegation, this amendment transfers 1,300 acres of land from the U.S. Air Force on Campion Air Force Radar Station to the town of Galena. Remote Travel Reimbursement for National Guard Members: This amendment allows the Secretary of Defense to authorize higher reimbursement to reservists and guardsmen that reside in the same state as the inactive duty training location, reside outside of a population of 50,000 or more, or must commute via aircraft or boat from a distance of 75 miles or greater. Congressional Support for Keeping the 4-25 Brigade Combat Team in Alaska: This amendment expresses the Sense of Congress supporting the Army’s decision to halt the reduction of Alaska’s 4-25 IBCT (ABN) and asserts that the state of “high military risk” assumed by reduced Army force structure is unacceptable given the growing need to counter medium- to high-intensity threats. HH-60/Combat Rescue Helicopter Report: This amendment ensures that the HH-60G (the helicopter that the Alaska Air National Guard Combat Rescue Squadron flies) continues to be maintained, aircrew trained, and supported until Alaska gets the new Combat Rescue Helicopter in 2027-2028. Arctic Search and Rescue Report: This amendment directs the DOD to develop a strategic plan for resourcing Arctic capabilities like the Arctic Sustainment Package (ASP) and the tactics, techniques, and procedures required to test and deploy these capabilities. ###
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Senator Sullivan to Deliver Weekly National Republican Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) was selected by the Republican Party to deliver the weekly national address to the nation. During his remarks, Senator Sullivan, will focus on the lost decade of economic growth under the Obama administration. The address will be available nationwide overnight and Alaska reporters will receive the audio, video and text of the message at 8:00 am on Saturday morning for inclusion in weekend newscasts. ###
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Senators Honor Heroes of the Last Frontier Senate Passes Resolution Honoring 75th Anniversary of Alaska State Troopers WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate passed a resolution (attached), introduced by U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Alaska State Troopers and honoring the “first responders of the last frontier” and their families for their service and sacrifice. In 1941, the 15th Territorial Legislature established the Alaska Highway Patrol, an organization created for the sole purpose of enforcing the traffic code in the territory. That organization grew and evolved into what we know today as the Alaska State Troopers, Alaska Wildlife Troopers, and Village Public Safety Officers. “I cannot think of a more appropriate time to honor the loyalty, integrity, and courage of the Alaska State Troopers than the eve of National Police Week. Our troopers face huge challenges policing Alaska’s vast geography, and we are fortunate that their skill and determination rise to that challenge,” said Senator Murkowski. “On behalf of a grateful state, I thank the Alaska State Troopers, Alaska Wildlife Troopers, and Village Public Safety Officers for protecting the Last Frontier.” "When I was the state’s attorney general, I saw first-hand how essential the Alaska State Troopers are to protecting the peace and enforcing the law in Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “Troopers expertly face dangers uncommon to most peace officers – from blizzards and avalanches to hurricane-force winds and sub-zero temperatures. They spend time away from their families, protecting Alaskans. Troopers also safeguard our rich natural resources. Without their vigilance we would not have the best-managed fisheries in the world, nor the unique subsistence hunting and fishing opportunities that set our state apart. Congratulations to the Troopers on 75 years of admirable service and dedication to our communities." National Police Week begins Sunday, May 15, recognizing the service and sacrifice of U.S. law enforcement. During this week, the nation pays special recognition to all law enforcement officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty for the safety and protection of others, including 16 members of the Alaska State Troopers, 2 Village Public Safety Officers, and a Deputy Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Public Safety. ###
05.12.2016	05.12.16 Alaska Delegation Calls for International Cooperation on Canadian Mines Writes State Department With Concerns On Water Quality in Transboundary Rivers WASHINGTON, D.C. – Amid concerns about how the development of several hardrock mines in British Columbia could negatively affect waterways and fisheries in Southeast Alaska, Senators Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young wrote a letter (attached) to Secretary of State John Kerry, urging for action. The Alaska Congressional Delegation called upon the Secretary to raise these issues and concerns at the international level and secure commitment from Canadian leaders to ensure that the appropriate environmental safeguards are in place for mining development. “Our precious marine resources greatly contribute to the economy and culture of Southeast Alaska and must continue to be protected. We request that you and other officials from the Department of State raise this issue in appropriate bilateral meetings with your Canadian counterparts and utilize all measures at your disposal to address this issue at the international level.” The Delegation explained the importance of this issue to Alaskans and the need for assurances that the water quality in transboundary waters between Alaska and Canada will be maintained. “Like most Alaskans, we strongly support responsible mining, including mines in Southeast Alaska, but Alaskans need to have every confidence that mining activity in Canada is carried out just as safely as it is in our state. Yet, today, that confidence does not exist…. Should there be an impact to the transboundary waters that flow from Canada to Alaska, our state’s fisheries, tourism, and Native peoples could all be hurt.” The Congressional Delegation explained several concerns of the impacts surrounding proposed mining development, such as leaking acidic waste. “We must, at the very least, ask for Canada’s commitment to help protect the pristine waters of Southeast Alaska – to match our commitment to baseline water quality monitoring, and to consider other ways to ensure the full protection of our world-class fisheries.” The Delegation proposed the State Department to work with Alaskans and the Obama Administration to urgently take all of the following actions: Encourage British Columbia officials to consider the cumulative impacts of mining and their potential impacts on transboundary waters during the review and approval process for mines. Determine whether an International Joint Commission reference is a suitable venue to determine whether Canadian mines are following “best practices” in treatment of wastewaters and acid-producing mine tailings – especially in light of the scientific reviews of the causes of the Mt. Polley tailing disposal dam failure. Establish a more formal consultation process with American state agencies, other federal agencies, tribes, and ANCSA corporations during Canadian mine permit reviews, similar to the American process of having participating entities during Environmental Impact Statement preparations. Support Environment Canada’s water quality study effort relating to the impacts of mining on transboundary waters. Support and work towards robust funding for water quality testing on the American side of the border to establish baseline water quality data, so that the U.S. can file for damages in the event of mining-related damage from Canadian mines. ###
05.06.2016	05.06.16 The truth about our continuing combat role When the president is in open disagreement with the secretary of defense and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on one of the most critical issues our nation faces — whether to send our sons and daughters into combat — it should be cause for significant national concern. President Obama has repeatedly told the American people that U.S. troops are not in combat in the Middle East. In 2010, he announced that “our combat mission is ending” in Iraq. He used the same words in 2014 regarding Afghanistan. More recently, he said that our mission in Syria “will not involve American combat troops fighting on foreign soil.” Yet last week in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, I asked Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr. if our troops in the Middle East, including in Syria, are engaged in combat. Both unequivocally said yes. To our members of the military serving overseas, Carter and Dunford were stating the obvious. Indeed, recent reports in The Post and the Military Times describe up to 200 Marines at Fire Base Bell in northern Iraq firing artillery daily in support of Iraqi troops and killing Islamic State terrorists. Our soldiers serving as part of the Joint Special Operations Command in the Middle East conduct regular counterterrorism missions to kill and capture terrorists. Since 2014, our brave pilots have dropped approximately 40,000 bombs in Iraq and Syria in close-air-support missions focused on killing Islamic State members and destroying their infrastructure and supply operations. An additional 1,200 bombs have been dropped supporting the coalition fight in Afghanistan combating the Taliban. Some of our service members have been killed conducting these operations, while others have been wounded. All of this is the very definition of combat. To Carter’s credit, he said at the hearing: “These people are in combat . . . and I think that we need to say that clearly.” Apparently, the White House didn’t get the memo. This week, when asked about a Navy SEAL killed in a fierce firefight involving U.S. Special Operations forces, Kurdish commandos and Islamic State fighters, White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters that “the relatively small number of U.S. service members that are involved in these operations are not in combat but are in a dangerous place. Why do Obama and his White House continue to peddle the fiction that U.S. forces are not engaged in combat? Perhaps the commander in chief is truly unaware that they are, which would be troubling indeed. More likely is that because he’s told the American people repeatedly that he will end wars and won’t send combat troops to the Middle East, the word contortions coming from the White House are part of a twisted attempt to salvage and protect the president’s legacy. But by spinning the truth for political purposes, the president is coming perilously close to leaving a legacy of dishonesty when it comes to our military involvement in the Middle East. And much more worrisome, such dishonesty comes with costs. First, it diminishes the service and sacrifice of our troops and their families. Americans serving in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan know they’re engaged in combat operations. The commander in chief needs to acknowledge this fact and the bravery it entails, not disguise the true nature of their duty. Second, it further undermines the administration’s tenuous foreign policy credibility regarding its stated goal of degrading and destroying the Islamic State. While this is the correct goal, a series of missteps in the Middle East, including the president’s failure to enforce his own red line when it was crossed by Bashar al-Assad in Syria, have brought us to the point where our adversaries and our allies question U.S. credibility and resolve. Islamic State terrorists know that they’re in combat against U.S. forces, but when the president says otherwise, it signals a lack of conviction, making it harder to defeat these terrorists. Finally, the dishonesty about the role of our troops allows our presidential candidates to duck a tough issue. Hillary Clinton repeatedly has been allowed to say, unchallenged, that she would continue the president’s policies of not sending combat troops to Syria and Iraq. Forty-five years ago, future Secretary of State John F. Kerry, then speaking as a veteran of the Vietnam War, urged the incumbent administration to be honest about the roles our men and women in uniform were playing in Vietnam. Testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he said, “We veterans can only look on with amazement on the fact that this country has been unable to see there is absolutely no difference between ground troops and a helicopter crew, and yet people have accepted a differentiation fed them by the administration.” The theater has changed, but Kerry’s words still resonate. For the betterment of our troops, and our country, he called for honesty then — just as we all should call for honesty now. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Washington Post
05.04.2016	05.04.16 Sullivan reacts to White House Spokesman’s Statement on Combat Troops in Middle East WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in response to comments made by White House spokesman Josh Earnest yesterday after it was reported that another American service member was killed in action in Iraq. Earnest told reporters that “the relatively small number of U.S. service members that are involved in these operations are not in combat but are in a dangerous place.” Senator Sullivan said, “My deepest sympathy and respect goes out to the families and friends of the American service members recently killed in action. The White House continues to diminish the service and sacrifice of our troops serving in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan and elsewhere by peddling the fiction that they are not engaged in combat. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford have recently and unequivocally said they are. I appreciate their honesty.” “The President and White House spokesman Josh Earnest need to level with the American people and tell the truth about what our brave troops are doing in the Middle East – they are in combat, it’s not a ‘small number,’ and they are doing their duty trying to keep our country safe.” During a Senate Armed Services hearing last week, General Dunford agreed with Senator Sullivan that our Joint Special Operations Command troops conducting counter-terrorism missions in the Middle East, as well our numerous pilots flying bombing sorties, are all engaged in combat. Secretary of Defense Carter also agreed, stating that these service men and women “are in combat and we need to more clearly state it.” A recent article in the Military Times stated that U.S. Marine artillerymen in northern Iraq “fire every day”. ###
05.02.2016	05.02.16 Sullivan Secures Victories for Alaska’s Water Infrastructure WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) thanked members of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee for approving the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA), which includes several key provisions vital to Alaska’s water and infrastructure future, and encourages the development of a future deep-water Arctic port. Under a provision secured by Senator Sullivan in WRDA 2016, a new water infrastructure grant program for small and disadvantaged communities is authorized at $230 million for fiscal year 2017, and $300 million for fiscal years 2018 through 2021, for a total of $1.4 billion over five years. There are still dozens of communities in Alaska without running water or wastewater treatment facilities. “Our nation’s outdated and crumbling water and wastewater infrastructure is a huge concern for communities all across our country,” said Senator Sullivan. “For Alaska, investment in such infrastructure is crucial. More than 3,300 rural Alaska homes lack running water and a flush toilet, which leads to serious health issues. This is unacceptable. One of my top priorities has been to ensure that the federal government realizes its responsibilities to provide basic infrastructure for its citizens. That’s what this bill does, and I’m grateful that my colleagues on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee agree.” "On behalf of AFN, I want to thank Senator Sullivan for his efforts to support safe water in our villages and in other communities in our country like Flint,” said Julie Kitka, president of the Alaska Federation of Natives. “We are glad that the citizens of Flint are getting federal resources to help in that terrible situation. We are also very grateful Senator Sullivan listened to our concerns and acted quickly." Additionally, WRDA 2016 includes the following priorities for Alaska: Arctic Deep?Draft Port: The bill instructs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, in carrying out the study of the feasibility of the Arctic deep draft port, to consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense to identify national security benefits associated with an Arctic deep draft port and use that as a basis for determining feasibility. Last year, the Army Corps paused the feasibility study of an Arctic deep draft port due to the economic loss of Shell’s withdrawal from the Chukchi Sea. This provision encourages the Army Corps to justify an Arctic port based on metrics beyond economics. Construction authorization for Little Diomede Harbor. Construction authorization for Craig Harbor. Authorizes the Army Corps to maintain harbors of refuge, which benefit communities such as Elfin Cove, which has experienced shoaling in its entrance channels presenting challenges to safe navigation. Removes federal interests in a portion of land adjacent to Valdez Harbor, allowing local development of this property. Extends the Army Corps’ responsibility for operations and maintenance for the Lowell Creek Flood Diversion System in Seward. Allows regional benefits to be taken into account when justifying the feasibility of small, remote, subsistence harbor projects. Extends the 10% set aside from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for emerging harbors through 2025. Emerging harbors are those transiting less than one million tons of cargo annually. Allows Alaska Native Corporations to develop water infrastructure projects as non-federal sponsors. ###
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Sullivan: White House out of step with Pentagon on status of combat troops in Middle East WASHINGTON, D.C.— American soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines, are in the line of fire in the Middle East. Some have lost their lives. U.S. fighter and bomber pilots are consistently flying combat sorties, and our special forces are engaged on the front lines in Syria. However, President Obama and others in his Administration have repeatedly made the false claim that U.S. troops serving in the Middle East are not combat troops. In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Thursday, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) questioned Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Joseph Dunford on those claims. Both contradicted White House claims. Senator Sullivan’s first question was to General Dunford about Marine Corps Staff Sgt. Louis Cardin who was hit by fire while stationed in northern Iraq on March 19. "Was he killed in combat?" Senator Sullivan asked. "He was killed in combat, Senator," General Dunford responded. General Dunford also said Staff Sgt. Matthew McClintock was killed in combat in Afghanistan in February. "When our [Joint Special Operations Command] troops conduct [counter-terrorism] missions in that part of the world, are they conducting combat operations?" Sullivan pressed. “They are Senator,” Dunford answered. Sullivan also asked if the F22s, F16s, A-10s that are doing bombing missions in Iraq and Syria are conducting combat missions. “They are Senator,” General Dunford said. Senator Sullivan then asked why the administration goes through “these crazy somersaults” to tell the country that are troops aren’t in combat when they are. “It diminishes the sacrifice of our troops and their families,” Sullivan said. Read the full story on the hearing from the Military.com here. http://www.military.com/daily-news/2016/04/28/dunford-acknowledges-us-troops-in-iraq-conduct-combat-operations.html ###
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Sullivan’s VA Express Appeals Bill Included in Comprehensive Veterans Accountability Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, applauded the rollout of the Veterans First Act, a bipartisan bill combining several pieces of legislation aimed at increasing accountability of senior executives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and improving services for our nation’s veterans. Among the provisions included in the bill is S. 2473, the Express Appeals Act of 2016, legislation authored by Senator Sullivan that requires the VA to carry out a fully developed appeals pilot program, which will allow the VA to start testing the concept of a heavily streamlined appeals process. “The average veteran waits nearly 1,000 days – or three years – for the VA to resolve an appeal of one of their benefit decisions. That is absolutely unacceptable,” said Senator Sullivan. “Proud veterans across the U.S., including more than 77,000 in Alaska, should not have to endure these absurd, multi-year wait times just to see their cases resolved. My Express Appeals Act will create a less-bureaucratic express lane through which the VA can resolve its growing backlog of appeals quickly and favorably for all of our nation’s veterans. I thank Chairman Isakson and Ranking Member Blumenthal for their leadership in holding the VA accountable to the promises made to our veterans." Background: As of January 2016, over 400,000 veterans have appeals pending with the VA. The Express Appeals Act would establish a new channel whereby veterans, upon receiving a decision on an original claim by the VA, would have the option to file an express appeal with the Board of Veterans Appeals (BVA), in lieu of the traditional appeals process. The express appeals process would consolidate the traditional process aimed at reducing veterans’ wait times. First, the appeals pilot program would omit the remand process, in which the BVA sends a veteran’s appeal back to the VBA for additional evidence development, saving the veteran an average of 545 days. Second, the veteran would submit a “Statement of Argument,” detailing how the VBA decided their original claim incorrectly, in place of the VBA’s own time-consuming development of a “Statement of Case,” saving the veteran an average of 408 days. Additionally, entrance into this program would be completely voluntary and a veteran would be able to exit the express appeals process at any time and re-enter the traditional pipeline at the end of the line with no adverse consequences. ###
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Sullivan Cosponsors Legislation to Reform Criminal Justice System WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) has announced that he has joined a bipartisan group of senators co-sponsoring the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act of 2015, comprehensive legislation aimed at recalibrating prison sentences for low level non-violent drug offenders, granting federal judges greater discretion at sentencing for these offenders, and ensuring protection of our communities from high level drug dealers and violent criminals. Past laws have resulted in the “over-criminalization” of minor offenses which has resulted in the long-term incarceration of low level non-violent offenders. For years, a strong coalition of lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have agreed that sentencing procedures need to be reviewed and revised to deal with current incarceration issues while also maintaining public safety. After the bill was revised to ensure that violent felons will not benefit from reduced sentences, Senator Sullivan added his name to the bill. “Over the past year and a half, there’s been growing bipartisan support for this legislation from constituents and community groups across Alaska and across the country. After hearing from many of these groups, reading numerous studies, and careful deliberation, I’ve reached the conclusion that incarceration has cost taxpayers billions of dollars and yet recidivism rates remain unacceptably high, which is an enduring problem that impacts all Alaskans and Americans. We need to do better. This is a step in the right direction,” Senator Sullivan said. “As the former attorney general of Alaska, my priority was to ensure that the punishment fit the crime while also ensuring that our communities remained safe from violent offenders. This bipartisan legislation strikes the balance that we need to protect law enforcement’s ability to aggressively target violent criminals and serious offenders, while focusing on justice, rehabilitation, and public safety." Additionally, this bill provides a new mandatory minimum sentence for interstate domestic violence offenses. Combatting domestic violence and sexual assault has been a major priority of Senator Sullivan’s throughout his career in Alaska and now in the Senate. Another key aim of this legislation is to promote the successful re-entry of former prisoners into society once they have been released and to curb rates of recidivism. The Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act of 2015 is sponsored by Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Assistant Democratic Leader Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Assistant Majority Leader John Cornyn (R-Texas), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Judiciary Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Christopher Coons (D-Del.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Bob Casey, Jr. (D-Pa.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Mark Warner (D-Va., Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.). ###
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Obama Administration M.I.A. as Economy Posts Record Slow Growth WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) took to the Senate floor today to highlight yet another quarter of sluggish growth for the American economy. The Commerce Department today announced that the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) grew by only 0.5 percent during the first quarter of 2016. Under President Obama’s administration, GDP – a key indicator of the nation’s economic growth – has yet to hit three percent. Prior to the Obama administration, the longest stretch of time in which real GDP has not grown by at least 3 percent was a four-year period during the Great Depression. “In the old days, whether it was a Republican or a Democratic administration, if the U.S. economy was growing 0.5 percent – essentially not growing – then almost certainly the secretary of the treasury would have come out and said, ‘Don’t worry America. We’ve got this. We have a plan. We know that 0.5 percent GDP is horrible for everyone, especially working class families,’” Senator Sullivan said on the Senate floor today. “Or the secretary of commerce would have come out saying, ‘We know you’re hurting, America. We’ve got a plan.’ But I don’t think we heard a peep out of this administration this morning. They certainly don’t want the American people talking about it because it’s a big problem for them. It’s a big problem for all of us. Growing our economy has to be the number one moral imperative we should be focused on.” FACTS ABOUT THE AMERICAN ECONOMY During the last ten years, real annual growth in GDP peaked in 2006 at 2.7 percent. It has never been that high since, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). In the 25 quarters since the recession ended in 2009, real GDP has grown a total of 14.3 percent, which equals an anemic annual growth rate of slightly less than 2.2 percent over the course of the recovery. By comparison, for other recoveries since 1960 that lasted longer than one year, real GDP has on average grown by a total of 27 percent over a comparable period, or an average annual rate of 3.9 percent. If real GDP had grown at the average rate of other recoveries during the Obama recovery, real GDP would be $1.823 trillion higher. Compared with the average of other recoveries since 1960, cumulative lost real GDP amounts to $6.991 trillion. In the Reagan recovery, real GDP grew a total of 34 percent over the comparable period—an annual rate of 4.8 percent. If the economy had grown at the rate of the Reagan recovery, real GDP would be $2.816 trillion higher. Compared with the Reagan recovery, cumulative lost real GDP amounts to $10.644 trillion. # # #
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Commerce Committee Prioritizes New Icebreaker, Passes Sullivan-Cantwell Provision WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today thanked fellow members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation for approving the Polar Icebreaker Fleet Recapitalization Transparency Act, legislation that seeks to expedite the recapitalization of the U.S. Coast Guard’s icebreaking fleet. Senator Sullivan and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) offered the bill as an amendment to S. 2829, the Maritime Administration Authorization and Enhancement Act. The amendment authorizes the U.S. Coast Guard to enter into contracts for advanced procurement for an icebreaker, and also requires the Coast Guard to undertake a fleet recapitalization plan. Finally, the amendment requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on the state of the United States’ icebreaking fleet. “The United States continues to be late to the game on the urgent need for an expanded fleet of Coast Guard icebreakers,” said Senator Sullivan. “As a supporter of an all-of-the-above strategy to rebuild America’s icebreaking capacity, I thank my colleagues on the Commerce Committee for passing this critical piece of legislation out of committee, and I am hopeful it will be considered by the full Senate in the near future.” Below are key provisions of the legislation: Authorizes $150 million toward the acquisition of a new heavy polar icebreaker in Fiscal Year 2017. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy, to develop a recapitalization plan to meet the Coast Guard statutory missions in the Polar Regions. That plan must: Identify the vessel specifications, capabilities, equipment, and other needs required for the next generation of heavy polar icebreakers. List the specific appropriations required for the acquisition of each icebreaker, for each fiscal year, until the fleet is fully capable of meeting the needs of the U.S. Coast Guard. Describe any polar icebreaking capacity gaps that may arise based on when the current icebreakers will need to be retired. Identify any additional gaps in icebreaking capacity due to current and future delays in new icebreaker construction. Requires the GAO to conduct a study analyzing the gaps in icebreaking infrastructure in the U.S. fleet, and an analysis of how the current fleet does not meet mission requirements for the Coast Guard or the Navy. The study also requires an analysis of international funding models for icebreaking capacity. The U.S. currently has only three polar icebreakers — two heavy and one medium – and one of them is inoperable. Statements from senior military and civilian leaders as well as numerous studies have highlighted inadequacies in the U.S. icebreaking fleet. By contrast, Russia has 40 operational icebreakers, several of which are nuclear powered. ###
04.26.2016	04.26.16 Military investments should help Alaska weather economic challenges Alaska is facing tough economic times. Budgets are being squeezed, workers are being laid off and families are making due with less. But it’s important to understand that we’ve been here before, and we’ve come out stronger because of it. It’s also important to remember that just like in past recoveries, the federal government has a significant role to play in Alaska. Working together again, Alaska’s congressional delegation is united on this issue. We are making sure that Alaska gets its fair share of transportation and infrastructure funding, including nearly $3 billion in the recently passed transportation bill. We are pushing back on the federal government when it overreaches or locks up more of Alaska’s resources, energy that fuels the country. And we are protecting and enhancing one of the most productive fisheries in the world. Alaska’s military capabilities play another incredibly important role for our country as global threats increase. Significant U.S. military investments are being made in Alaska that should help us weather our uncertain economic challenges. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I’ve been relentlessly promoting Alaska’s strategic location, and how our state constitutes three pillars of America’s military might. We are the cornerstone of America’s missile defense, we are the hub of air combat power and training for the Asia Pacific, and we are a vital expeditionary platform for some of America’s best trained troops who can rapidly deploy to threats anywhere in the world. Let me go into these three areas in more detail. First, our country faces growing threats from intercontinental ballistic missiles being developed by North Korea and Iran. Largely because of these threats, the Department of Defense will be making significant investments in building and expanding missile defense projects in Alaska, which will ensure that we remain the cornerstone of America’s missile defense. More than $300 million will be invested over the next several years to build the Long Range Discrimination Radar at Alaska’s Clear Air Force Station. This is in addition to the more than $400 million for missile defense upgrades that are ongoing at Fort Greely, Clear Air Force Station, and Shemya Island. By the end of 2017, Fort Greely will have 40 ground-based interceptors capable of shooting down intercontinental ballistic missiles targeting any city in the U.S. Second, the recent announcement that two squadrons of F-35As will be hosted in Fairbanks — combined with our existing F-16s, F-22s, E-3Cs, C-17s, C-130s, KC-135s, Army Grey Eagles, and Apache helicopters — makes Alaska’s Air Force and Army air power among the most agile, comprehensive and lethal in the world. These aircraft are flown and maintained by our active duty, reserve, and Alaska National Guard pilots and personnel—the best anywhere. Finally, the third pillar of Alaska’s military might is our expeditionary troops. Alaska has two of the best trained active duty brigade combat teams in the U.S. Army: the 1st Stryker Brigade — the “Arctic Wolves” — at Fort Wainwright, and the 4th Brigade Combat Team 25th Infantry Division — known as the 4/25 — at JBER. That’s in addition to our outstanding National Guard and reserve units, our pararescuemen and the thousands of Coast Guard members who perform heroic missions around our state and overseas on a regular basis and whose members will be increasing in Kodiak with more modern search and rescue aircraft, like the C-130Js. These positive military developments for Alaska have resulted from the strong support of local communities, and our congressional delegation’s advocacy in the form of hearings, meetings, legislation, amendments, appropriations, and even placing holds on the confirmation of defense department and military officials. For example, after the Obama administration announced last year that it planned to disband the 5,000 airborne soldiers of the 4/25, my staff and I spent hundreds of hours making the case that this decision was strategically misguided. Finally, the Pentagon and the Army agreed, which was yet more good news for Alaska and our nation’s security. All of these military investments — the hundreds of millions of dollars for missile defense, the $450 million that will go to the Interior economy during the construction phase of the F-35s, as well as the tens of millions of dollars that will continue to sustain Southcentral as a result of the 4/25 staying intact — will create substantial job opportunities for Alaska contractors, their employees and union members. We need to build on these positive developments and keep this momentum going. For example, we need make sure that the 4/25 remains in Alaska, and I’ll continue to fight to bring even more troops to our state. I’ve been working closely with the Director of the Missile Defense Agency to take full advantage of the existing infrastructure for potential missile defense testing in Kodiak. With our incoming F-35s and the existing F-22s at JBER, Alaska will soon be home to more than 100 fifth-generation fighter aircraft. I’ve spoken to the Secretary of Defense Ash Carter that it only makes strategic sense that those aircraft be supported by a new fleet of Air Force tankers like the new KC-46 Pegasus. When I was in Fairbanks recently for the F-35 announcement, I talked, as I do often, about Alaska’s triad of U.S. military might. But it occurred to me that we really have four pillars of strength. The fourth is our welcoming and supportive communities that treat our military service members as if they are family. As long as Alaskans continue to support our troops, we’ll continue to be successful in making the case that Alaska’s military power and capability are second to none, benefiting our great state and country. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
04.22.2016	04.22.16 Sullivan Applauds First Production at Point Thomson WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) congratulated the state of Alaska and ExxonMobil for beginning production at the Point Thomson project on Alaska’s North Slope, Exxon’s first operated project in Alaska. The challenging field, which over the decades had numerous plans for development, contains a quarter of the North Slope’s massive natural gas reserves. Development of the field is a foundational element in a project that will commercialize Alaska’s North Slope natural gas. In an announcement, ExxonMobil said that the field will soon be producing up to 10,000 barrels per day of natural gas condensate and 200 million cubic feet of recycled gas. These are production levels in line with the terms negotiated with ExxonMobil by Senator Sullivan when he first was the Alaska’s attorney general, and then the commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources. Settling the terms of development in Point Thomson was one of Senator Sullivan’s top priorities. “The announcement that production has started at Point Thomson is very good news for Alaska,” Senator Sullivan said. “I’m pleased that ExxonMobil has abided by the terms of the agreement that I, along with my team, negotiated. The terms include firm time tables and strong Alaska-hire provisions. So far, the company has spent more than $4 billion on developing the field and has contracted with more than 100 Alaskan companies. The 10,000 barrels a day of condensate that will soon be flowing down the trans-Alaska oil pipeline will help boost state coffers, will help ensure uninterrupted flow through TAPs, and will open up the eastern North Slope for additional exploration and development. Further, production of the field brings us closer to realizing an Alaska natural gas pipeline.” ###
04.22.2016	04.22.16 Alaska Delegation Praises Missile Defense Agency Announcement for Pacific Spaceport Complex – Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – Today the Alaska Congressional Delegation welcomed the announcement by the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) that it is examining the Pacific Spaceport Complex in Kodiak as a potential site for missile defense flight testing for regional missile defense systems, such as the Theatre High Altitude Air Defense (THAAD) system. MDA today released a Notice of Intent for a Sole Source Contract for the Alaska Aerospace Corporation in Federal Business Opportunities, the federal government’s online acquisition information system, to help test components of the nation’s ballistic missile defense systems. The announcement follows Navy Vice Admiral James Syring’s inspection visit to the Pacific Spaceport Complex in February. "Today’s announcement is great news for Kodiak and for Alaska. The Missile Defense Agency continues to recognize Alaska's geographic advantage in the execution of its mission. Testing regional missile defense systems in Kodiak is the latest chapter in a longstanding relationship between the Missile Defense Agency and our state,” Senator Murkowski said. “Along with the Air Force’s plans to base the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Eielson, this is yet another tangible demonstration of the military’s growing interest in Alaska and will further solidify our state’s long-term status as a strategic asset to the nation’s defense.” “Today’s announcement by MDA reaffirms the fact that Alaska is the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense,” said Senator Sullivan. “The potential opportunity for regional missile defense flight testing on Kodiak for systems that could include THAAD would help revitalize a longstanding partnership between MDA and the Alaska Aerospace Corporation. Having just visited Kodiak, and spoken with members of the community, I am hopeful this news will breathe new life into a world-class launch complex on the island. From my position on the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have had several discussions with MDA Director Vice Admiral Syring about Kodiak’s potential for missile testing and I fought to secure a provision in last year’s NDAA highlighting the importance of the Pacific Spaceport Complex – Alaska in helping the Department of Defense meet its national security requirements. I will continue to promote this critical launch complex as a site for future MDA missions and testing because of its unique advantages and important location.” “As an early supporter of our nation’s Ballistic Missile Defense System, including efforts in the late 90’s to pass the ‘All-American Resolution’ to ensure equal protection for Alaska and Hawaii from ballistic missile threats, I’m extremely pleased with today’s announcement,” said Congressman Young. “With growing threats from North Korea, combined with Iran’s nuclear ambitions, it’s vital that the United States remain vigilant in our efforts to defend against rogue nations set on acquiring and using long-range missile technology. The Alaska Aerospace Corporation (AAC), a critical piece of our nation’s space-launch infrastructure, and the MDA continue to serve an invaluable role in protecting our nation. Today’s announcement demonstrates our nation’s commitment to providing robust missile defense, ensures our systems are properly tested and evaluated, and reaffirms the immense value of the Pacific Spaceport-Alaska and AAC to the Department of Defense. I remain committed to building on previous year’s efforts – including key provisions supporting the expansion of Ground-based Missile interceptors and the development of the Long Range Discrimination Radar at Fort Greely, Alaska – to ensure the safety and security of our nation. The announcement continues a year of positive developments for the military’s future in Alaska. MDA has separately announced plans to construct a $300 million Long Range Discrimination Radar at Clear Air Force Station near Anderson, and the Air Force has announced that it will base the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter at Eielson Air Force Base. ###
04.20.2016	04.20.16 Sullivan Congratulates Senator Murkowski on Passage of Bipartisan Energy Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today applauded the Senate's passage of the Energy Policy Modernization Act, the first major energy policy legislation in nearly a decade. The bill was sponsored by Alaska’s Senator Lisa Murkowski, chair of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "In February, the energy bill hit up against seemingly insurmountable gridlock. But Senator Murkowski did not give up,” said Senator Sullivan. "She did the hard work, meeting with stakeholders and convincing our colleagues about the enormous benefits at stake – increasing U.S. energy supplies and job opportunities, enhancing our nation's energy security, and improving energy efficiency. Today, Senator Murkowski’s thousands of hours of work have come to fruition, and our nation and Alaska are much better for it." “Because of Chairman Murkowski’s advocacy, Alaska will see new financing tools for energy projects, the reauthorization of home weatherization and home energy efficiency programs, support for the development of critical minerals, and an expedited permitting process for any liquefied natural gas export project,” Senator Sullivan added. Included in S. 2012, was an amendment offered by Senator Sullivan to correct a surveying error relevant to the Swan Lake Hydroelectric Project, located near Ketchikan, Alaska. This amendment would direct the Secretary of the Interior to resurvey the land near the Swan Lake Dam and correct the error within 18 months so that the license holder can increase the storage capacity of the dam. Senator Sullivan also co-sponsored an amendment with Senator Murkowski related to the Alaska gasline, which would broaden the right-of-way adopted in the Denali National Park Improvement Act and provide more routing flexibility for the project during the approval process. ###
04.19.2016	04.19.16 Senate Passes Major FAA Bill with Key Provisions Benefitting Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, today welcomed the overwhelming passage of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill. The legislation contains several key provisions secured by Senator Sullivan that are important to Alaska. One of the essential focuses of the bill is on the general aviation industry, which contributes more than $1 billion to the Alaska economy. Aviation in general supports more than 47,000 jobs – one-tenth of the jobs in the entire state. Senator Sullivan’s provisions in the bill include air traffic control hiring provisions, increased benefits for the general aviation community, such as a provision to protect their privacy and another to reduce the paperwork for general aviation pilots by lengthening the registration period, and the inclusion of Little Diomede in the Essential Air Service program. "With more than 100 communities in our state wholly reliant on aviation to get in or out — including regional centers like Bethel, Nome and Kotzebue — today's passage of the FAA reauthorization bill is uniquely important to Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. “The bill will help maintain Alaska's diverse and remote pieces of aviation infrastructure which are vital to the well-being of so many Alaskans. The legislation also incorporates new robust consumer protections, making it one of the most flyer-friendly FAA reauthorizations in years.” Specifically, HR 636 includes: Investment in aviation infrastructure: This bill supports investment and enhanced safety with an increase in infrastructure spending by authorizing funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) at $3.75 billion, an increase of $400 million above the current annual investment. Maintains the Air Traffic Control (ATC) system: The Senate bill maintains the current air traffic control system and does not transfer the air traffic control services to a private corporation. Aircraft Certification Reform: Requires the FAA to establish a risk-based framework to accelerate the installation of safety equipment enhancements for small, general aviation airplanes. Streamlines the burdensome and slow certification processes by establishing an advisory committee to put forth improvements to ensure uniformity and reliability of the process. More importantly, it requires the FAA to better use its existing delegation authorities, and includes certain deadlines to meet milestones. Little Diomede Essential Air Service (EAS) situation: The Village of Little Diomede along with three other Lower 48 communities were not eligible for the first 12 years of the Essential Air Service (EAS) program due to the fact that they did not receive scheduled air service in 1978. The need to add Diomede into the EAS program was made clear when the community recently went without any air service and crucial supplies for more than five weeks. A provision included by Senator Sullivan adds Little Diomede into the Essential Air Service in order to provide regular air service to the community. Pilot Bill of Rights 2: One of the critical general aviation provisions in the FAA reauthorization is the inclusion of the Pilot Bill of Rights 2. Building off the success of the initial Pilot’s Bill of Rights, this provision continues to make the essential reforms for pilots, such as streamlining an overly burdensome medical certification process, and increasing transparency and access to additional information for pilots subjected to investigation. ATC Hiring: In January 2014, the FAA launched an effort to fill an expected 6,300 air traffic controller vacancies over the next five years. As a part of that effort, the FAA announced that it was no longer providing any preference to applicants coming out of training facilities, such as Collegiate Training Initiatives (CTI) including one University of Alaska-Anchorage, over general public applicants with no training. The FAA also eliminated hiring first from a category of highly qualified candidates and has instead opted to hire from a larger group of applicants who all meet the minimum qualification standards. Applicants from the CTIs have been particularly affected by this decision, despite its long history of success in preparing students for careers as air traffic controllers. The language not only restores an interview in the hiring process but adds back some preference to CTI graduates in the hiring process. Small Airport Regulation Relief: The bill directs the FAA to apportion AIP entitlement funds to certain airports based on its 2012 enplanement numbers. This protects Manokotak and Haines airports from cuts in AIP funding. Cold Weather Construction: Language continues the FAA requirement to schedule its review of construction projects so that projects in cold-weather states are reviewed as early as possible in order to maximize construction time during construction season. In addition, Senator Sullivan championed the following three amendments that were adopted by the Commerce Committee: Project Streamlining Provision: Establishes performance measures and targets to provide more accountability to the permitting process for aviation infrastructure. Plane Registration: This amendment lengthens plane registration for non-commercial planes. The current three-year registration provides an undue burden on owners, especially in rural areas. This amendment reduces the workload on the FAA and the owners while providing long-term cost savings for the FAA due to the reduced workload. Privacy Protection in the ATC system: The FAA maintains a real-time data base of aircraft tail numbers as they transit the country, identifying their locations as they take off and land. That information is now accessible to the public through the Internet. This provision allows for private aircraft owners to request the FAA to block the registration number of the aircraft owner from any public dissemination for the noncommercial flights of the owner or operator. ###
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Sullivan Commemorates the 40th Anniversary of the Magnuson Stevens Act WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on the 40th anniversary of the passage of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement: “It’s difficult to overstate the positive impacts the Magnuson-Stevens Act has had on the state of Alaska and its importance to our fishing industry,” said Senator Sullivan. "More Alaskans are employed by the fishing industry than any other industry in the state. Countless Alaska communities rely on the health and abundance of our fisheries. The prosperity and jobs provided by our fisheries was made possible because of the science-based, stakeholder-driven management of the resource established by the Magnuson-Stevens Act. Suffice it to say, Alaska would not be the superpower of seafood it is today without the vision and hard-work of those that crafted the Act that passed 40 years ago – namely the late Senator Ted Stevens and Congressman Don Young. As Alaska’s Senator serving on the Commerce Committee, I take seriously my role in preserving their great legacy in crafting the law that has successfully managed our nation’s fisheries for future generations.” ###
04.11.2016	04.11.16 Sullivan Bill Blocks Iran’s Access to U.S. Financial System WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) has introduced S. 2757, the Iran Financial System Access Limitation Act of 2016, legislation that would prohibit Iran from accessing the U.S. financial system until Iran is no longer designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. The bill comes amidst reports that the Obama Administration’s Department of Treasury is contemplating giving Iranian banks access to U.S. dollars through offshore “clearing houses,” a practice which is currently prohibited. “Giving Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, access to the most stable and powerful currency in the world is unacceptable,” said Senator Sullivan. “Efforts by the Obama Administration to circumvent current law is a backdoor way to relieve sanctions, giving the Iranian regime more purchasing power. Furthermore, it enables Iran to continue its hegemonic designs in the Middle East and terrorist activities around the world. For the sake of U.S. national security and the global fight against terrorism, Congress must work immediately to stop the Administration’s efforts right in its tracks.” Background: A nuclear capable Iran poses a direct threat to the United States and its allies around the world. Nothing in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action obligates the United States to lift financial sanctions with respect to Iran, and in fact, unilateral sanctions have proven effective in achieving foreign policy aims of the United States. Iran has violated United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1929 (2010) and 2231 (2015), which form the basis of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. The goal of imposing economic sanctions with respect to Iran was to penalize Iran for its pursuit of nuclear weapons for illicit purposes. In spite of the fact that Iran has violated the resolutions and destroyed the intent of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, President Obama has voluntarily paid the Government of Iran $1.7 billion in a settlement of a claim before the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal. After giving the Government of Iran further access to global assets, President Obama has now indicated that he is prepared to give Iran access to United States dollars. Continuing his governance by executive fiat, President Obama is planning to give Iran access to U.S. dollars in a manner that evades review by Congress. President Obama continues to let Iran dictate the interpretation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to the people of the United States. Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew said to the Senate last year that, “Iranian banks will not be able to clear U.S. dollars through New York” and that Iranian banks will not “hold correspondent account relationships with U.S. financial institutions, or enter into financing arrangements with U.S. banks.” Granting access to the United States dollar will strengthen the access of Iran to the global financial system, increase the ability of Iran to conduct illicit transactions in weapons trade, and decrease the minor amount of leverage retained by the United States Government to contain the nuclear ambitions of Iran. ###
04.07.2016	04.07.16 Army Chief on Administration’s Planned Troop Reductions: “High Military Risk" WASHINGTON, DC — Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army General Mark Milley today testified to Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) before the Senate Armed Services Committee that the Obama Administration’s plan to reduce the size of the Army to 450,000 active duty troops and 980,000 total troops represents “high military risk” in light of potential conflicts around the globe. Over the last year, Sullivan has been pressing senior Department of Defense officials on the drawdown, including the elimination of Alaska’s 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (Airborne), a decision which the U.S. Amy recently reversed. In response to Sullivan’s line of questioning, General Milley said, “My job is to provide my best military estimate of what the risk is … I think it’s high military risk.” Senator Sullivan responded, “I certainly believe it’s unacceptable risk for the country, and as you mentioned, for our troops.” When pressed further on what size the active-duty component of the U.S. Army, when properly resourced, should be, General Milley said, “We’ve got a variety of studies that we did to determine the size of the force relative to the national military strategy and the defense planning guidance…The active piece of that comes out to just a little bit more than 500,000.” After the hearing Senator Sullivan said, “President Obama wants our military to have Cadillac capabilities at Yugo prices and, as a result, our U.S. Army – and all of our services – are at a critical crossroads. They are under-manned and under-resourced for an increasingly dangerous world. As General Milley made clear in his testimony, ‘The risk of deploying unready forces into combat is higher U.S. casualty rates and increased risk to mission success.’ The American people need to know the consequences of President Obama’s budget intransigence and that his ‘dollar-for-dollar’ budget demands have real consequences for our nation’s brave men and women.” ###
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Sullivan Applauds Senate Passage of Anchorage Land Transfer Bill WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation introduced by Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) to allow for the sale of 9 acres of unused and undeveloped federal property to the Municipality of Anchorage. S. 1492 facilitates the sale of the National Archives and Records Administration property located at 400 East 40th Avenue in Anchorage to the Municipality for no less than fair market value. “After years of Senate gridlock, I am pleased to see this commonsense land transfer one step closer to reality,” said Senator Sullivan. “This legislation has a number of concrete benefits for all stakeholders: Taxpayers will see the sale of the land go toward paying down the federal debt and streamlining the long, costly administrative process, the Archives will be able to offload a property it no longer needs, and the Municipality will be able to acquire a valuable plot of developable land, which is increasingly scarce in the Anchorage area. This legislation is long overdue." S. 1492, which has the support of Anchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz and was supported by former Mayor Dan Sullivan, would specifically direct the General Services Administration, on behalf of the National Archives, to convey property in Anchorage to the Municipality. The National Archives has determined that it no longer needs the property and supports the sale as part of its efforts to reduce costs to the taxpayer and shrink its overall footprint. The bill will require fair market value based on highest and best use for the property, determined by an independent appraisal. ###
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Sullivan Reacts to DOJ’s Decision to Deny Investigation of Bill Allen WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the Department of Justice (DOJ) chose to deny Alaska Attorney General Craig Richard’s request to pursue charges against Bill Allen for alleged Mann Act violations: “I find it incredibly frustrating that it took the threat of violating a new federal law for the Department of Justice to finally and directly answer a question that Alaskans have been asking for years. There was ample evidence in this case to allow the state to investigate and prosecute Bill Allen. But the Attorney General of the United States is saying that doing so would undermine the administration of justice – claiming that because the DOJ previously decided not to cross-designate the state, the DOJ was required to deny the state again. Such circular reasoning obscures what this case was about in the first place. “The real victims here are those in Alaska and nationwide who have been exploited and sexually abused. In this case, justice continues to be denied. Victims of human trafficking need to know that their government is working for them. And perpetrators need to know that prosecutors won’t rest until they are brought to justice. I will continue to work for victims to fight the scourge of sexual assault and domestic violence in our state and our country and I’m confident that other states’ attorneys general will use this new law to do so.” The letter from the Department of Justice to Alaska Attorney General Richards is available here. ###
04.04.2016	04.04.16 AK Delegation: Military Boost Coming to Alaska, F-35 Squadrons Officially to be Based at Eielson AFB WASHINGTON, DC—Today the Alaska Congressional Delegation praised the news that Eielson Air Force Base was selected as the new home for the U.S. Air Force’s first F-35As in the Pacific Theatre. Construction is scheduled to begin in fiscal year 2017, with the arrival of the F-35s expected in 2020. The Record of Decision was signed this morning by the Air Force, finalizing plans to base the F-35A Joint Strike Fighter at Eielson, bringing 54 new aircraft and 2,765 additional residents to Interior Alaska. The two squadrons of F-35s will join the F-16 Aggressor squadron and the 168th Air Refueling Wing currently assigned to Eielson. The U.S. Air Force released its final Environmental Impact Study on February 26th regarding the beddown of the F-35s at Eielson. Construction activity associated with the siting of the F-35A Joint Strike Fighter is expected to create a total of 2,339 new construction jobs and generate $453.4 million in economic output over the next four years. “Today’s Record of Decision is great news, reinforcing Alaska’s strategic military location and proving how crucial Eielson is to our national security. This is also good for the airmen who will now have the opportunity to work and train in the best military community in the nation,” said Senator Murkowski. “Today signals a remarkable reversal of fortune for Eielson Air Force Base, because it was not too long ago that we were told that capabilities at Eielson would be significantly downsized. As a member of both the Defense Appropriations and Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittees, I will now work to fund the planes, the people, and the military construction to make this a reality. It has now been made abundantly clear that America truly needs Eielson Air Force Base.” “This announcement today is win-win-win for Alaska, the Air Force, and our nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “I couldn’t be happier for Fairbanks, North Pole, the Interior, and the rest of Alaska whose patriotic warmth and dedication towards our military and their families clearly made this an easy decision for the Air Force. I also appreciate that the Air Force was responsive to the language that the Alaska Congressional Delegation included in last year’s defense authorization to fully weigh Alaska's strategic location and our world-class training opportunities in the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex. When Eielson’s F-35As are combined with the Air Force’s existing F-22s, C-17s, F-16s, E-3s, and the Alaska Air Guard’s C-130s, KC-135s and combat rescue squadrons, Alaska has clearly become a critical hub of combat air power for our nation. And with rising threats in the Arctic, on the Korea Peninsula, and in the South China Sea, I think Alaskans will agree, these elite aircraft cannot arrive soon enough." “Today’s Record of Decision confirms a longstanding belief that Alaska’s strategic location and unique military value are far too important to be overlooked. This decision, the latest in a series of events, demonstrates that the Department of Defense has truly recognized Alaska for the vital role we play in supporting the military’s mission,” said Congressman Young. “From the announcement to delay cuts to JBER’s 4-25, basing the Gray Eagle UAV’s and Apache Helicopters at Fort Wainwright, keeping the F-16s at Eielson and now today’s announcement, it's clear DOD understands that Alaska’s strategic value – its vast training areas, proximity to the Asia-Pacific, and our commitment to serving our military – is unmatched anywhere else in the world. From the beginning, my case for bringing the F-35 to Alaska has focused on fulfilling the mission. While I’m proud to have played a role in this process, having secured language in each of the last two National Defense Authorization Acts that emphasized Alaska’s immense military value and the benefits Eielson offers the Air Force, I’ve always said that Alaska’s contributions to our military sell themselves.” ###
03.22.2016	03.22.16 Supreme Court Delivers Setback to Federal Overreach WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its opinion on Sturgeon v. Frost, remanding the case back to the lower courts. In an 8-0 opinion, the court overturned the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision that the National Park Service could ban the use of hovercraft in eastern Alaska's Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve. The court found the 9th Circuit’s decision “surprising” and “topsy-turvy.” While not a decisive victory for John Sturgeon, the Alaska moose hunter who brought the case forward, and who will now have to continue fighting his case in court, it does represent a significant win for Alaska’s sovereignty. The vacated 9th Circuit ruling has been used, and would have continued to be used, by the federal government as a springboard for extensive federal regulation which would have harmed hunters and stymied development on state and Native Corporation lands. At issue in the case is who, under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA), controls state and Native property located within the outer boundaries of ANILCA Conservation System Units. In November, Senators Lisa Murkowski, Dan Sullivan and Congressman Don Young submitted an amicus curiae brief, arguing that only the State of Alaska and Alaska Native Corporations, and not the federal government, are empowered to make land use decisions on non-federal land in Alaska. The court did not resolve the question of whether the Park Service could regulate vessel traffic on the Nation River, or if it could regulate other state and Native Corporation lands in Alaska. However, Chief Justice John Roberts, who wrote the opinion, found that the 9th Circuit’s decision didn’t take into account that ANILCA envisioned that public lands in Alaska would not be managed like other public lands across the country. “ANILCA repeatedly recognizes that Alaska is different —from its ‘unrivaled scenic and geological values,’ to the ‘unique’ situation of its ‘rural residents dependent on subsistence uses,’ to ‘the need for development and use of Arctic resources with appropriate recognition and consideration given to the unique nature of the Arctic environment,’” Chief Justice Roberts wrote. “John Sturgeon is a hero for taking his challenge all the way to the Supreme Court and winning this initial, and unanimous, victory over a tortured legal interpretation by the National Park Service,” Senator Murkowski said. “Unfortunately, this decision is not the last step, but only the start of the next chapter in our fight to secure the rights promised to Alaskans. We must continue to rally behind John, and support his cause, until lower courts also recognize what the Supreme Court affirmed today: that Alaska is different, even exceptional, and that federal overreach is unacceptable.” “I am gratified that the Supreme Court unanimously recognized the unique nature of Alaska and that the 9th Circuit’s decision was fundamentally flawed,” said Senator Sullivan. “In Alaska, our land and our waters are our lifeblood. The more the federal government takes, the less control we have over our economic destiny. The people of Alaska know this. John Sturgeon knows this. As evidenced by the opinion, members of the Supreme Court seem to understand this. However, I am disappointed that John Sturgeon didn’t get the decisive victory that he deserved. We all need to continue to work together on these important issues, including continued vigilance when Federal agencies ignore ANILCA.” “Today’s ruling wasn’t the KO punch we were looking for in our fight against the massive overreach of the National Park Service, but it was a small victory for Alaska and the unique relationship we share with the federal government,” said Congressman Young. “From the beginning, a unified front has argued that the National Park Service has overstepped its boundaries through a wholesale neglect of ANILCA and many provisions that protect Alaska’s sovereignty. While the Supreme Court stopped short of reaching a conclusion today, they went to great lengths to describe the uniqueness of Alaska and the historical context to the many instances in ANILCA that prescribe exceptions to the status quo federal management – recognizing ‘the simple truth that Alaska is often the exception, not the rule.’ I hope the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, the nation’s leading activist court, takes the Supreme Court’s condemnation of their legal interpretation seriously as they reconsider this extremely critical case.” ###
03.21.2016	03.21.16 Alaska Congressional Delegation Applauds Army Decision to Keep 4-25 Brigade Combat Team Intact WASHINGTON, DC – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation today responded to the news that the U.S. Army has officially announced that it is delaying its decision to remove 2,600 soldiers from the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (Airborne) stationed at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson. In July 2015, the U.S. Army announced the reduction at JBER as part of a larger force-structure reduction from 490,000 to 450,000 troops. Since that announcement, a unified Alaska Congressional Delegation has fought to retain the 4-25 as a full brigade combat team, citing the unit’s strategic importance to our country’s national security. “This is a good day for Alaska and a good day for America,” said Senator Sullivan. “Keeping the 4-25 intact has been a top priority of my first year in this U.S. Senate. I’ve relentlessly fought to have Alaska’s strategic importance recognized by the Obama Administration, senior military leaders, and my colleagues in the U.S. Senate. I’m particularly appreciative of Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, Acting-Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy, and Chief of Staff of the Army General Mark Milley for rigorously evaluating the force posture of the Army in light of changing global national security threats. Because of this decision, the Army sent a strong message that America remains dedicated to our Rebalance to the Asia-Pacific, understands our leading role in the Arctic, and is unyielding in our support for our critical alliances with Japan and South Korea. It also sent a message that our communities in Alaska are the most supportive to our military in the country. We have more work to do and we will remain vigilant until the entire 4-25 stays in Alaska for good.” “This is good news for Alaska – from the moment the Army proposed to eliminate the 4-25 Airborne Brigade I knew that it was shortsighted and the direction of world events would ultimately prove that,” said Senator Murkowski. “Whether measured by North Korea's provocative actions this month, our discomfort with Russia's military path, the need for troop strength to support the strategic balance to the Pacific, or emerging challenges in the Arctic, maintaining Army strength in Alaska right now is the right answer. ‎I am proud of the delegation's concerted effort to work with the Army to maintain the 4-25 and will be working through the appropriations process to ensure this important capability is maintained into the future.” “Overturning this shortsighted decision continues to be a process; one focused on informing our colleagues, working with the administration, and identifying the various areas where Alaska’s strategic military value has been overlooked or underestimated,” said Congressman Don Young. “I recently told the Acting Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy that this decision should not be based on anything but the mission and the strategic value JBER’s 4-25 provides our Combatant Commanders. It’s clear, after announcing its decision to retain JBER’s force structure, that the Army has heard our message. While today’s announcement comes as great news for Alaska and the nation, we must not rest on our laurels. Instead, we must continue to fight to ensure this reduction is overturned so JBER’s 4-25 can continue its status as the only airborne brigade in the Pacific. I remain vigilant and continue to work to build certainty for our communities and military families through legislation I cosponsored, the POSTURE Act, which would set Army force structure numbers to levels that adequately reflect the global threat environment. I commend the steadfast efforts of both Senator Murkowski and Senator Sullivan, who actively leveraged their positions in the Senate to raise these issues to the highest levels.” ###
03.18.2016	03.18.16 Sullivan Fights for Key Alaska Provisions in Reauthorization of FAA Bill WASHINGTON, DC – With U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan’s support, the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee has approved the reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which incorporates several key provisions included by Senator Sullivan, as a member of that committee, that are important to Alaska. Senator Sullivan’s provisions in the bill include increasing investment in aviation infrastructure, a Pilot’s Bill of Rights, which benefits Alaska pilots and passengers, air traffic control hiring provisions, increased benefits for the general aviation community, and an inclusion of Little Diomede into the Essential Air Service, and many other provisions that benefit Alaska. “Living in a state of such enormous scale with numerous remote communities gives Alaskans a deep appreciation for air travel, which in many cases provides the only means of transportation for many residents,” said Senator Sullivan. “Ensuring that America and Alaska have a strong and safe aviation network — critical to driving economic growth — is one of my top priorities. Passage of this FAA bill out of the Senate Commerce Committee is an important step toward ensuring our aviation infrastructure is well maintained and improvements are not bogged down with red tape and endless permitting.” Specifically, S. 2658 includes: Investment in aviation infrastructure: This bill supports investment and enhanced safety with an increase in infrastructure spending by authorizing funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) at $3.75 billion, an increase of $400 million above the current annual investment. Maintains the Air Traffic Control System: The Senate bill maintains the current air traffic control system and does not transfer the air traffic control services to a private corporation. Aircraft Certification Reform Requires the FAA to establish a risk-based framework to accelerate the installation of safety equipment enhancements for small general aviation airplanes. Streamlines the burdensome and slow certification processes by establishing an Advisory Committee to put forth improvements to ensure uniformity and reliability of the process. More importantly, it requires the FAA to better use its existing delegation authorities, and includes certain deadlines to meet milestones. Little Diomede Essential Air Service (EAS) situation: The Village of Little Diomede along with three other Lower 48 communities were not eligible for the first 12 years of the Essential Air Service (EAS) program due to the fact that they did not receive scheduled air service in 1978. The need to add Diomede into the EAS program was made clear when the community recently went without any air service and crucial supplies for more than five weeks. A provision included by Senator Sullivan adds Little Diomede into the Essential Air Service in order to provide regular air service to the community. Pilot Bill of Rights 2: The bill includes S.571, the Pilot’s Bill of Rights 2. This provides key reforms to the Third Class Medical Certificate process and an enhanced appeals process for pilots facing FAA enforcement. AVGAS: The EPA and FAA are working to convert Avgas to be unleaded. If they are going to force an alternative there must be a seamless conversion for our planes, a low cost alternative that does not economically impact our general aviation community, and it must safe. The cold temperatures of Alaska provide a unique safety challenge to the Avgas conversion. The language allows for testing broader fleet of general aviation aircraft engines in order streamline the conversion process and reduce the certification burden on the airplane owners and operators. ATC Hiring: In January 2014, the FAA launched an effort to fill an expected 6,300 air traffic controller vacancies over the next five years. As a part of that, the FAA announced that it was no longer providing applicants coming out of training facilities such as Collegiate Training Initiatives (CTI) any preference over general public applicants with no training. The FAA also eliminated hiring first from a category of highly qualified candidates and has instead opted to hire from a larger group of applicants who all meet the minimum qualification standards. Applicants from the CTI’s have been particularly affected by this decision, despite its long history of success in preparing students for careers as air traffic controllers. The language not only restores an interview in the hiring process but adds back preference to CTI graduates in the hiring process. Small Airport Regulation Relief: The bill directs the FAA to apportion AIP entitlement funds to certain airports based on its 2012 enplanement numbers. This protects Manotak and Haines airports from cuts in AIP funding. Cold Weather Construction: Language continues the FAA requirement to schedule its review of construction projects so that projects in cold weather states are reviewed as early as possible in order to maximize construction time during construction season. In addition, Senator Sullivan championed the following three amendments that were adopted by the Commerce Committee: Project Streamlining Provision: Provision establishes performance measures and targets to provide more accountability to the permitting process for aviation infrastructure. Plane Registration: This amendment lengthens plane registration for non-commercial planes. The current three-year registration provides an undue burden on owners, especially in rural areas. This amendment reduces the work load on the FAA and the owners while providing long-term cost savings for the FAA due to the reduced work load. Privacy Protection in the ATC system: The FAA maintains a real time data base of aircraft tail numbers as they transit the country, identifying their locations as they take off and land. That information is now accessible to the public through the internet. This provision allows for private aircraft owners to request the FAA to block the registration number of the aircraft owner from any public dissemination for the noncommercial flights of the owner or operator. ###
03.17.2016	03.17.16 Alaska must have clear path to pursue justice for young women in Allen case As many Alaskans know, the state still hasn’t fully recovered from the corruption scandal that beginning in 2006 rocked the state and sowed the seeds of mistrust between the people and their government. Certain prior actions by the U.S. Department of Justice -- the most powerful guardian of justice in our country -- have contributed to that lingering mistrust. However, there is a new opportunity for U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch to right past wrongs. That’s why we announced last month that the state, as a part of the creation of the Department of Law’s Public Integrity Unit within the Office of Special Prosecutions, sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Lynch, seeking authority to evaluate whether to file charges against Bill Allen, the government’s main witness in the case against the late Sen. Ted Stevens. Allegations of sexual misconduct with a minor surfaced during the 2008 trial of Sen. Stevens, but were never pursued by the federal government. Two Alaska attorneys general, including now-Sen. Dan Sullivan, tried to get the Justice Department to allow them to pursue an investigation into the allegations, but were rebuffed without sufficient explanation, resulting in questions that to this day undermine public trust. Because of the specific allegation of Mann Act violations -- which makes it a felony to bring someone across state lines for prostitution -- the charges had to be brought by the federal government, or the federal government had to cross-designate the state to do so. Shortly after Sen. Sullivan was elected, he also discussed the matter with current Attorney General Lynch. It should be clear that none of this happened under Attorney General Lynch’s tenure. However, at that time, Sen. Sullivan received an insufficient response from the Department of Justice. For years U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski has also been asking questions about the case and also has not received adequate answers. Now, however, such obfuscation is against the law. An amendment sponsored by Sen. Sullivan to the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in May, compels the Justice Department to allow state prosecutors to pursue federal offenses under the Mann Act, unless it would undermine the administration of justice. If U.S. Attorney General Lynch does not cross-designate, then she has 60 days to provide a detailed explanation as to why she is denying the request. The new law will help provide much-needed resources in the battle against human trafficking in the state and across the country. Attorney General Richards’ letter to the Justice Department seeks authority to pursue these charges. It also asks a specific question of the Justice Department, a question with profound implications that has haunted Alaskans for years. If the Justice Department refuses to cross-designate the state, writes Attorney General Richards, “I would ask that the explanation for any denial answer the question of whether the Department’s decision is, in any way, based on a suggestion or assurance (whether expressed or implied) by any federal official to not prosecute Mr. Allen in order to secure his cooperation in the case brought against the Senator.” This is a chance for Alaska to right a wrong and to close one of the darkest chapters in Alaska’s history. There are allegations that young girls were abused and that the federal government cut a deal with Bill Allen to testify against Sen. Stevens, who was vindicated and whose conviction was overturned. Let us hope that was not the case. But if it was, it would constitute a scandal of the highest order. And those who decided that prosecuting Senator Stevens was a higher priority than seeking justice for abused children should be exposed. Alaskans need answers, one way or the other. A 2010 Anchorage Daily News editorial pointed out that although we don’t know all of the facts, “We do know that young women came forward in this case only to be told, in effect, that justice they sought wouldn't be forthcoming. We do know this sends exactly the wrong message about the value we place on the safety of our children and justice for victims -- particularly those most vulnerable, including Native girls from Alaska's villages.” Alaska has among the highest rates of sexual assault and abuse in in the country. We have three times the national average of rape. The numbers for sexual abuse of our children are similarly horrifying. Victims need to know that their government is working for them, not against them for political purposes. And perpetrators need to know that we won’t rest until they are brought to justice. The mission of the Department of Law’s Public Integrity Unit is to restore public trust. We can think of no better place to start than with this case. Alaska Sen. Dan Sullivan has served in the U.S. Senate since January 2015. Craig Richards is Alaska's attorney general. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan, Alaska AG Craig Richards Source: Alaska Dispatch News
03.17.2016	03.17.16 Secretary of Defense Would Support Army’s Recommendation to Keep Troops in Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – In the latest development regarding the U.S. Army’s decision to remove the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (Airborne) from Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) in Alaska, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter told Senator Dan Sullivan today in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing that he would support a recommendation from the U.S. Army to retain the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) at JBER, the only Army airborne combat brigade in the Pacific and the Arctic, and the only one with extreme-cold weather and high-altitude training. When pressed by Senator Sullivan at today’s hearing if he supported a forthcoming recommendation from General Mark Milley, the Chief of Staff of the Army, Secretary Carter said, “With respect to the 4-25….. I’ve spoken to General Milley. If he makes that recommendation to me, I want you to know I’m going to approve that. I think that that is an important part of our force posture in the Pacific, and I appreciate your calling my attention to it.” This statement from Secretary Carter comes on the heels of General Milley’s Senate Appropriations Committee testimony last month, where he stated that in his best military opinion, “it would be contrary to strategic national security interests to go ahead and pull out the 4-25 at this time. So my thought is that we should extend them at least a year to see how the strategic situation develops and then move from there.” Since the Department of Defense (DOD) announced last summer that it would begin drawing down 2,600 soldiers from JBER, Senator Sullivan has repeatedly pressed top DOD and other officials to reconsider. He, as well as numerous colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee, have expressed alarm that such drastic cuts would threaten our national security. Russia’s aggressive behavior, China’s coercive island building, and North Korea’s recent destabilizing nuclear and missile tests make our force posture in the Arctic and the Pacific all the more important, Senator Sullivan has argued. “Today, the most senior member of the Department of Defense, Secretary Ash Carter, publically confirmed that he would support the Army’s recommendation to keep the 4-25 in Alaska because he understands the importance of this strategic capability,” Senator Sullivan said after the hearing. “Over the past year, I have fought to keep the 4-25 because the Arctic, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific are becoming increasingly dangerous and unstable. It’s vitally important—both to the security of Alaska and to the rest of the country—that we have strategically positioned forces that can counter and deter global threats and provide our nation’s leaders with diverse capabilities, like Arctic training. I’m thankful that Secretary Carter, as well as other top officials, recognize the importance of the 4-25 to our national security.” Background: Working with Senator Lisa Murkowski and Congressman Don Young, Senator Sullivan, as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has relentlessly championed the effort to fully retain the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) – a critically strategic national security asset for the United States – in Alaska. For the past fifteen months, Senator Sullivan has devoted hundreds of hours to making the case that keeping the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) is in the national interest of the U.S. Army, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. as a whole. From countless hearings, meetings, and visits with senior Department of Defense leaders – including President Barack Obama, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford, Chief of Staff of the Army General Mark Milley, Acting-Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy, Nominee to be Secretary of the Army Eric Fanning – Senator Sullivan has engaged at the highest levels to fight to keep the U.S. Army’s only extreme-cold weather and mountain-trained airborne brigade in the Pacific and the Arctic. In addition, Senator Sullivan has helped inform his colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee of how important Alaska’s 4-25 IBCT (ABN) is to promoting U.S. interests in the Pacific and the Arctic and has raised the issue weekly in the committee. Recently, a bipartisan group of Senators on the committee publically shared concerns with senior Department of Defense officials. With their full bipartisan support, Senator Sullivan included an amendment in last year’s defense authorization to require the Department of Defense to produce a new Arctic Strategy and an Operation Plan (OPLAN) for the Arctic region. During Armed Services hearings, Senator Sullivan received commitments from senior DOD leadership to not remove soldiers from the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) until the Arctic OPLAN is completed. In public and private meetings, he pressed U.S. Army and DOD senior leaders to re-evaluate the earlier Army decision and in the process, the Army put a hold on the decision to remove troops from Alaska. In February 2016, General Milley fulfilled a promise he made to Senator Sullivan in his nomination hearing and accompanied Senator Sullivan to Alaska to assess the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) issue. Last month, Senator Sullivan watched soldiers from the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) execute a nighttime-training Joint Forcible Entry Operation into Fort Polk, Louisiana. In addition, Senator Sullivan also regularly meets with the leadership of Alaska Command and U.S. Army Alaska and the soldiers and airmen that serve underneath them. ###
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Sullivan Issues Statement on Nomination of Merrick Garland to the U.S. Supreme Court WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement today after President Obama announced he has nominated Merrick Garland to the United States Supreme Court: “The President has the constitutional authority to nominate and the U.S. Senate has the authority to advise and consent. The decision to withhold advancement of Mr. Garland’s nomination isn’t about the individual, it’s about the principle. Alaskans, like all Americans, are in the midst of an important national election. The next Supreme Court justice could fundamentally change the direction of the Court for years to come. Alaskans deserve to have a voice in that direction through their vote, and we will ensure that they have one.” ###
03.15.2016	03.15.16 Sullivan Statement on Interior Department’s Proposed 5 Year OCS Plan WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today regarding the Department of Interior’s proposed Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022 in Alaska: “While on the surface the Department of the Interior’s proposed OCS lease plan – which includes acreage in Cook Inlet and the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas – sounds positive, it’s akin to a car dealership announcing a lease sale without providing any keys. For production to be realized and for Alaska to benefit, there needs to be regulatory certainty and a willingness on the part of the Executive Branch to work with, instead of against, lease holders. The energy industry was watching Shell’s ordeal in the Arctic closely. Largely as a result of confusing and conflicting regulations, that company spent seven years and $7 billion to drill a single well. Few, if any companies, could afford a repeat.” ###
03.15.2016	03.15.16 Sullivan Congratulates Dallas Seavey on Iditarod Victory WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan today congratulated Dallas Seavey of Willow, Alaska on winning the 2016 Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, his fourth win in five years. “Dallas Seavey is becoming a living legend of sorts, taking his 4th Iditarod title in just the last five years, and again setting a new speed record for the history books,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “And to make the race even more meaningful, Dallas was soon joined by his dad, Mitch Seavey, who finished a close second. Mitch must be a proud dad and Dallas a proud son. Congratulations Dallas on your record-breaking victory!" Dallas Seavey finished the race in 8 days, 11 hours, 20 minutes and 16 seconds. ###
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Sullivan Responds to Joint U.S. – Canada Announcement WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today reacted to the joint announcement by President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau on climate change and “Arctic leadership.” The announcement promises a host of new, legally suspect regulations on our country’s energy sector. The announcement would also subject the United States to a global initiative which could seriously undermine the opportunity for America to truly realize energy security, and would take “concrete steps” to lock up more of Alaska’s lands and waters. “Because we are the only Arctic state in the country, this release should have been called, ‘The Alaska-Canada Statement,’” said Senator Sullivan. “However, none of the members of Alaska’s federal delegation were even consulted or asked for input on this joint statement. More troubling, there was little, if any, meaningful consultation with those Alaskans who will be most affected by the initiatives outlined in the statement. “Make no mistake, these initiatives will harm the energy sector, which provides low-cost energy and contributes to the quality of life for hundreds of millions of Americans. But it could be particularly devastating to Alaska at a time when the state is experiencing a budget crisis. If the initiatives are enacted, less oil and gas will be produced in our state, more jobs will be lost, and state coffers will be increasingly diminished. Now is the time when Alaska needs a federal government that will work with the state, instead of working against us to stymie economic opportunity.” Details of the announcement include: Promising that the U.S. will collaborate in managing the Arctic with Canada, including taking unspecified “concrete steps” to protect at least 17 percent of the region’s land and 10 percent of its water by 2020. Requiring that the U.S. government consult with Canada “if oil and gas development and exploration proceeds in the Arctic.” Halting flaring at oil and gas sites by 2030. Increased regulations on the oil and gas, auto and aviation industries. Unspecified “new actions” to reduce emissions of hydrofluorocarbons. ###
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Senate Passes Legislation to Combat Opioid Epidemic WASHINGTON, DC — Today the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly passed S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) – legislation co-sponsored by Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) – to combat the historic epidemic of heroin and opioid abuse taking place across the United States, including Alaska. “In a recent meeting with constituents from across the state, I heard from them the abject devastation facing families in Alaska due to rampant heroin and opioid abuse,” Senator Sullivan said. “Their experience reinforced for me the fact that our state is grappling with this epidemic just like other parts of the country. The futures of real Alaskans are being crushed, and we can’t simply sit back and watch it happen. CARA takes a truly comprehensive approach to tackling the epidemic, including bolstering prevention efforts by educating people about the dangers of drug abuse, tools for law enforcement to stop the spread and prevent overdoses, and support for proven recovery methods and treatment to help give people their lives back.” Among its provisions, CARA will: Make the life-saving drug naloxone more widely available to first responders so that they have a better chance of reversing an overdose. Expand resources for criminal justice officials to better identify and treat inmates suffering from addiction. Increase the number of disposal sites for unwanted prescription drugs. Establish an evidence-based opioid and heroin treatment and intervention program, as well as a medication-assisted treatment and intervention demonstration program. Reinforce prescription drug monitoring programs for states to help ensure drugs do not fall into the wrong hands. "Addiction does not discriminate based on your gender, race, age or wealth,” Senator Sullivan added. “Each of us — our family members, friends and neighbors — are at risk. I’m grateful to see my Republican and Democratic colleagues coming together with real solutions to this scourge on our communities." ###
03.01.2016	03.01.16 Alaska Delegation Concerned Over Omission of Alaskans at Earthquake Resilience Summit “Huge opportunities exist for Alaska to advance our earthquake preparedness, but we can only make progress by ensuring Alaskan stakeholders are included in national discussions” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the Alaska Congressional Delegation spoke out about the Administration’s omission of Alaskan stakeholders at a recent national discussion on earthquake resiliency, sending a letter to the Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell that reads: “We write to you in regards to the interest of the Administration in improving the safety and resiliency of some of the Nation’s communities in earthquake-prone regions. We welcome the Administration’s proactive stance, but are concerned with the lack of opportunity provided to stakeholders in Alaska to participate in the Earthquake Resilience Summit that occurred on February 2, 2016.” The delegation pointed out how the absence of Alaskan stakeholders was particularly notable in light of a 7.1 magnitude earthquake occurring just days prior to the Summit. “It is our understanding that Alaska has not been included in any national discussions about the development of earthquake early warning systems. Given that Alaska is the most seismically active state in the nation, that the 10 largest earthquakes in the U.S. in the last 125 years have all been in Alaska, and the magnitude 7.1 earthquake just occurred only 160 miles outside of the State’s main population center, Alaska must be part of this conversation moving forward.” During the Summit, Secretary Jewell showcased progress made on hazard resilience and called upon collaborators to join in on earthquake efforts, including commenting on the absence of representation by Alaska and the desire to partner with the University of Alaska. In their letter, the delegation touted the current earthquake monitoring partnerships in the state: the Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, the State of Alaska Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys, and the USGC. “Given Alaska’s tremendous earthquake vulnerability, it is imperative we seize all opportunities to develop the appropriate earthquake monitoring facilities, so that Alaska will be ready for earthquake early warning sooner rather than later. The ability to provide advance warning of major earthquakes to large industrial entities such as the Trans Alaska Pipeline, in state refineries, gas utilities, Department of Defense’s Missile Defense and other major military installations, the Alaska Marine Highway system, the Alaska Railroad, and medical facilities would yield significant environmental and human safety benefits to both Alaska and the nation. Huge opportunities exist for Alaska to advance our earthquake preparedness, but we can only make progress by ensuring Alaskan stakeholders are included in national discussions.” The delegation concluded by encouraging Secretary Jewell to support the collaboration between the State of Alaska and the USGC and add an Alaskan presence to the National Earthquake Prediction Evaluation Council and the Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee as the Department looks to expand implementation of early warning systems. ###
02.26.2016	02.26.16 Alaska Delegation: F-35 Decision Will Trigger Economic Boom for Interior Alaska Strategic Location Brings Military Investment to the State WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Alaska Congressional Delegation applauded the Air Force’s publication of the final Environmental Impact Study (EIS) regarding the beddown of two squadrons of F-35s to be based at Eielson Air Force Base. Publication of the EIS is a necessary step toward a final Air Force decision on where to base the first F-35As in the Pacific Theatre. The study assesses whether the Air Force can locate the F-35 squadrons at Eielson, and a final “Record of Decision” will be announced in approximately 30 days. The EIS contains data about the effects of the F-35 beddown at Eielson, including that it could bring up 54 new aircraft and 2,765 additional residents to Interior Alaska. Construction activity associated with the siting of the F-35A Joint Strike Fighter is expected to create a total of 2,339 new jobs and generate $453.4 million in economic output over the next four years. The entire Environmental Impact Statement can be found here. “The military value of Eielson Air Force Base is ever-increasing, given the rogue and unpredictable threats emerging to our west and in the Arctic. Bringing the F-35s to the Interior, coupled with increased Army and Missile Defense Agency activity, also creates the foundation for long term economic stability,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “As we grapple with uncertainties about Alaska’s economic future, the defense buildup could not be more welcome news. For years, I’ve been urging Air Force leaders to strongly consider basing the F-35s at Eielson because of our strategic military location, and I’m happy to see that we are one step closer to this becoming a reality.” “The release of the Final EIS for the F-35A beddown at Eielson Air Force Base is another important step in the process of bringing 48 F-35s to Alaska, as is the nearly $300 million in military construction associated with the beddown in this year’s President’s budget request,” Said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Not only will the addition of these 48 5th Generation aircrafts continue to reaffirm Alaska’s highly strategic location, but it also signifies – along with JBER’s 48 F-22s – that Alaska is rapidly becoming a hub of combat airpower for the U.S. Air Force and nation.” “I have long supported bringing the F-35s to Eielson, not only for the positive economic impacts it will bring to our state, but for the critical mission the F-35s will support. No other location in the world offers the strategic value offered in Alaska, and the Air Force has recognized that. This beddown works to protect our national security, accomplishes a mission achieved nowhere else in the world, and ensures the Air Force and nation have the assets and capabilities available in any time of need,” said Congressman Don Young. “I’m proud to have played a role in this process, having secured language in each of the last two National Defense Authorization Acts that emphasized Alaska’s immense military value and the benefits Eielson offers the Air Force. I thank both Senator Lisa Murkowski and Senator Dan Sullivan for the united effort we have made to ensure the Air Force understands that there is no better location in the Asia-Pacific Region to base these F-35s.” ###
02.24.2016	02.24.16 Sullivan Reacts to Army Chief of Staff’s Testimony that 4-25 Troops Should be Kept in Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after U.S. Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley testified during a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing that the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (ABN) should not be removed from Alaska for at least another year. “General Milley’s testimony today confirms what I have been arguing for the past year – removing the U.S. Army’s 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (ABN) makes zero strategic sense,” said Senator Sullivan. “The 4-25 is the only extreme cold weather and mountain-trained airborne brigade combat team in the entire U.S. Army, and the only one strategically located to respond to threats in the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic. This kick-in-the-door capability is vital to our national security and provides deterrence against increasingly aggressive actions from Russia, China, and North Korea. Since General Milley was first nominated, I have appreciated his willingness to listen and understand why the 4-25 is important, not just to Alaska, but to our interests across the globe. And while General Milley’s public testimony today is an important step, there is still work to be done to ensure that the 4-25 is retained in Alaska and the entire U.S. Army remains ready to fight and win if called upon. I’ve told General Milley and others that the U.S. could send a strong message about U.S. resolve against the world’s destabilizing and aggressive powers by not removing a single solider from JBER. Today, our nation should be thankful that General Milley sent that message.” Background: During his first year in the Senate, Senator Sullivan, as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has relentlessly championed the effort to fully retain the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) – a critically strategic national security asset for the United States – in Alaska. For the past fourteen months, Senator Sullivan has devoted hundreds of hours to making the case that keeping the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) is in the national interest of the U.S. Army, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. as a whole. From countless hearings, meetings, and visits with senior Department of Defense leaders – including President Barack Obama, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Dunford, Chief of Staff of the Army General Mark Milley, Acting-Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy, Nominee to be Secretary of the Army Eric Fanning – Senator Sullivan has engaged at the highest levels to fight to keep the U.S. Army’s only extreme-cold weather and mountain-trained airborne brigade in the Pacific and the Arctic. In addition, Senator Sullivan has helped inform his colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee of how important Alaska’s 4-25 IBCT (ABN) is to promoting U.S. interests in the Pacific and the Arctic and has raised the issue weekly in the Armed Services Committee. Recently, a bipartisan group of Senators on the committee publically shared concerns with senior Department of Defense officials. With their full bipartisan support, Senator Sullivan included an amendment in last year’s defense authorization to require the Department of Defense to produce a new Arctic Strategy and an Operation Plan (OPLAN) for the Arctic region. During Armed Services hearings, Senator Sullivan received commitments from senior DOD leadership to not remove soldiers from the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) until the Arctic OPLAN is completed. In public and private meetings, he pressed U.S. Army and DOD senior leaders to re-evaluate the earlier Army decision and in the process, the Army put a hold on the decision to remove troops from Alaska. Two weeks ago, General Milley made good on a promise he made to Senator Sullivan in his nomination hearing and accompanied Senator Sullivan to Alaska to assess the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) issue. Last week, Senator Sullivan watched soldiers from the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) execute a nighttime-training at Joint Forcible Entry Operation into Fort Polk, Louisiana. In addition, Senator Sullivan also regularly meets with the leadership of Alaska Command and U.S. Army Alaska and the soldiers and airmen that serve underneath them. ###
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Sullivan Chairs Fisheries Subcommittee Hearing on 40th Anniversary of Magnuson Stevens Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today chaired a Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard hearing entitled, “Magnuson–Stevens Act at 40: Successes, Challenges, and the Path Forward,” to examine the law’s impacts on managing the nation’s fisheries—its successes and possible areas of improvement. Following in the footsteps of Senator Ted Stevens, whom the legislation is named after, Senator Sullivan opened by acknowledging that the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSA) has successfully Americanized our fisheries, and built the fishing industry into Alaska’s largest private employer. “Through the MSA’s guiding principles—the ten national standards, as applied by the eight Regional Fishery Management Councils who manage the fisheries off America’s coasts in a science-based and open and transparent stakeholder-driven process —the MSA has resulted in the world’s best managed fisheries, particularly in Alaska,” said Sen. Sullivan. Senator Sullivan also examined issues for potentially improving MSA, which was last reauthorized in 2006. Sullivan said, “I have heard from Alaska’s fishermen that my role as a steward of the MSA should largely be that of a doctor practicing the mantra of ‘First, do no harm.’ And that’s a great testament to the vision and hard-work of those that crafted the Act. We must ensure that our nation’s fishery management system supports a stable food supply, recreational opportunities, and plentiful fishing and processing jobs that provide for vibrant coastal communities.” ###
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Senior U.S. Pacific Commanders Echo Concerns Over Proposed 4-25 Reductions WASHINGTON, DC – In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing today on the status of U.S. Pacific Command and U.S. Forces Korea, Admiral Harry Harris, Commander, U.S. Pacific Command and General Curtis Scaparrotti, Commander, U.S. Forces Korea shared Senator Dan Sullivan’s ongoing concerns about proposed reductions to the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team from Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, and supported the continued efforts of Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley to review the decision. During questioning, Senator Sullivan – who recently visited the 4-25 IBCT (ANB) during their training exercise at the Joint Readiness Training Center at Fort Polk, Louisiana and accompanied General Milley to Alaska to see the 4-25 IBCT (ABN) – discussed the importance of this Airborne BCT to the Asia-Pacific theater. "The Army has decided to essentially get rid of the only airborne brigade combat team in the Asia-Pacific, the 4-25, also the only Arctic-trained, only mountain-trained,” said Senator Sullivan. “They're certainly a brigade combat team that brings a lot of ‘onlys’ to the fight. General Milley, to his credit, has said he was going to take a look at this decision.” General Scaparrotti agreed, testifying that the 4-25 “brings a very specific set of capabilities to the theater.” He added, "My personal opinion is that we need to reconsider the downsizing of the Army at this point given the challenges that we have around the globe. We have got a mismatch between the requirements and our strategy in the force that we have today.” Admiral Harris agreed, saying, “Our nation has an insatiable desire for security, and rightfully so. So I welcome General Milley's decision to reconsider the reduction of the 4-25 and that great capacity that is resident in Alaska. These are full-on surge forces that, without them, I don't know where we'd be if we had a major fight on the Korean Peninsula.” Senator Sullivan thanked the witnesses and agreed with their testimony, adding, “I certainly think it's a strategic mistake for the country to be getting rid of them.” ###
02.21.2016	02.21.16 Pentagon recognizing Alaska's strategic value World leaders are justifiably on edge about North Korea and its leader Kim Jong-Un. From executing senior members of his government and military to rocket launches and nuclear tests, the irrational and paranoid Kim Jong-Un has combined his nuclear goals and ballistic-missile ambitions into a volatile mixture of regional and global instability. In response, Congress has stepped up to lead by recently passing bipartisan legislation to broaden sanctions and punish North Korea for its nuclear program. Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, is also very focused on developing intercontinental ballistic missiles, as shown by its recent missile tests that were in clear violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions. Unfortunately, unlike North Korea, where we are in the process of tightening sanctions, the United States is in the process of lifting sanctions on Iran. This is a strategic mistake that undermines America’s national security. For all of these reasons, a robust missile defense for the United States is critical for the security of our nation. And because of Alaska’s strategic location, our state is the cornerstone of America’s missile defense. This is clearly reflected in comments by Secretary of Defense Ash Carter when he said the reason that Alaska is home to our “principle defense batteries” is because of Alaska’s global strategic location. That’s why I received the bipartisan support of my Senate colleagues in successful efforts to include two critical missile defense priorities in last year’s budget bill — sustaining and improving the existing Ground-based Midcourse Defense system at Fort Greely and funding the Long Range Discriminating Radar (LRDR) at Clear Air Force Station, both in Alaska’s Interior. This effort helped support an already strong request from the Obama Administration for missile defense. And it helped secure that funding in National Defense Authorization and Defense Appropriation bills that totaled $1.4 billion for these critical programs. I have disagreed with the Obama administration on a number of policy issues. But although more needs to be done to counter external threats, I agree with the Department of Defense’s recent efforts on prioritizing strategic missile defense. This is clearly critically important for the nation’s defense, and it’s also important for Alaska, particularly in the Interior. In the next few years, the Department of Defense will be making investments on building and constructing projects in Alaska related to missile defense. The president’s fiscal year 2017 budget request includes hundreds of millions of dollars in military construction over the next several years to build the Long Range Discrimination Radar at Alaska’s Clear Air Force Station. This is in addition to the millions of dollars in missile defense upgrades that have already occurred and are still ongoing at Fort Greely. At a time when Alaska is facing shrinking budgets and job losses, the positive ripple effects for our economy from this investment will be significant and will create substantial job opportunities for Alaskan contractors, their employees and union members. In addition to this focus on missile defense in Alaska, our state is also clearly becoming the hub of air combat power for the U.S. in the Asia Pacific, if not the country. Our F-22s and the coming F-35s, the E-3C, our C-17s, C-130s, and KC-135s are all aircraft that support a multitude of national security objectives around the world on a daily basis. No other state or U.S. territory holds such a national strategically centered location or more capable expeditionary force structure. Let’s also not forget that while this attention on Alaska is certainly largely due to our location, it also reflects the regard in which our highly disciplined and well-trained members of the military and our welcoming communities that support them are held. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I see this respect on a regular basis from our senior military leaders. As an example of this, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, Vice Admiral James Syring, will be visiting one of these welcoming communities — Fairbanks, as well as other parts of Alaska — next week. Without doubt, he will be impressed and proud of our military in Alaska. Indeed, we should all be proud that our state is home to the force-structure that protects our nation from rouge state missile threats. Patriotic Americans — at Fort Greely, Clear Air Force Station and on the island of Shemya — are the first and most critical line of defense against missiles fired at the United States. These Americans — many of whom are Alaska National Guard members — safeguard millions of American lives, from Anchorage and Los Angeles to New York and Washington, D.C. I will continue to fight to ensure that they have everything they need to counter irrational leaders and safeguard our state and our country. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
02.13.2016	02.13.16 Sullivan Statement on the Passing of Justice Scalia WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement on the death of Justice Antonin Scalia: "I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia — one of the most influential jurists America has seen in a generation. As a young first year law student at Georgetown, I had the great honor of meeting with Justice Scalia and discussing constitutional law. It was an encounter with a great American that is etched in my memory forever. I extend my condolences to his wife, Maureen, and their children and grandchildren during this difficult time." ###
02.12.2016	02.12.16 Sullivan Hosts Army Chief of Staff at JBER To Review 4-25 Troops ANCHORAGE, AK – Earlier this week, at the invitation of U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), U.S. Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley travelled to Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson (JBER) to review the 4-25 Infantry Brigade Combat Team (IBCT). During his visit, General Milley and Senator Sullivan spoke with soldiers and senior leaders of Alaska’s 4-25, hearing their concerns and answering their questions. General Milley and Senator Sullivan also continued their ongoing discussion on the status of the 4-25 and toured some of Alaska's robust training lands near JBER. (Senator Sullivan with U.S. Army Chief of Staff General Mark Milley) “I was honored that General Milley took me up on my invitation to visit Alaska and review the 4-25,” said Senator Sullivan. “During his visit to JBER, he saw firsthand Alaska’s Arctic tough warriors, heard about our warm, military-friendly communities, and visited some of our amazing training lands. I believe that this visit helped General Milley gain a more robust understanding of how well-trained our forces are in Alaska, and how the location of these highly trained Arctic warriors positions our nation’s military to rapidly respond to threats in the Asia Pacific, the Arctic, Europe, and the rest of the world. I will continue to aggressively fight on this critically important national security issue." Next week, Senator Sullivan will travel to Fort Polk, Louisiana, to visit the 4-25 IBCT as they participate in a three-week, brigade-size, capstone training exercise at the Joint Readiness Training Center. ###
02.11.2016	02.11.16 Alaska Senators Work to Put American Seafood in School Lunches WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski introduced S. 2529, legislation that would strengthen the Buy American provisions within the National School Lunch program to require that fish and fish products served through the program have to be caught in U.S. waters, or in the case of tuna, caught by a U.S. flagged vessel. “This is a commonsense bill that not only helps our fishermen, but also ensures that our children nationwide are getting the freshest and most nutritious fish products available,” said Senator Sullivan. “I thank my colleagues Senators Murkowski and Cantwell for joining me in this effort to ensure that the National School Lunch program is sourced with products from the most responsibly managed fisheries in the world.” “This legislation is simply a win-win—for Alaska’s fisheries and for our nation’s school children. As we know in Alaska, which is already blessed with great partnerships between our fishermen and our schools, bringing more fish harvested within U.S. waters into our schools’ cafeterias not only increases kids’ consumption of nature’s perfect brain food, but supports America’s seafood industry as well,” said Senator Murkowski. “I’m proud to join my colleagues to support this legislation, giving us the opportunity to put more of Alaska’s world-class, sustainably-harvested seafood onto the plates of America’s youth nationwide." Current law can result in foreign sourced fish products being served that have only undergone minimal secondary processing in the U.S. In some cases, fish served in school lunches are caught in foreign waters, by foreign fishermen, frozen and processed in foreign countries, then shipped to the U.S. for secondary processing. In these instances, our children are being served, and our tax dollars subsidizing, an inferior and less healthy product that may be sourced from countries that have shown hostility to U.S. exports. S. 2529, would amend the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act by adding an additional condition to the “Buy American” provision of the law to require that any fish or fish product acquired under the Act be harvested from U.S. waters, and end the practice of the U.S. spending tax dollars to subsidize displacement of high quality, nutritious U.S. fish products with inferior products from abroad. The legislation is also co-sponsored by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and has been referred to the Senate Agriculture Committee. ###
02.11.2016	02.11.16 Sullivan Applauds Passage of Customs Bill: Secures Provision to Enhance Alaska Fisheries WASHINGTON, DC —U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) applauded the Senate’s passage of H.R. 644, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act, which is now headed to the President for his signature. The legislation will allow authorities to aggressively enforce U.S. trade laws, protect obligations gained under international trade agreements, and continue to strengthen U.S. intellectual property laws. Working closely with Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI), Senator Sullivan was able to include a provision in the bill that will bolster fisheries in Alaska and across the country. For the first time ever, fisheries will be a principal negotiating objective for all future trade agreements. The measure will lead to a reduction or an elimination of tariffs and non-tariff barriers, eliminate subsidies that distort trade, and open new markets for American fish, seafood, and shellfish products around the globe. “Trade is incredibly important to Alaska’s economy. It supports more than one in five jobs in the state,” said Senator Sullivan. “And we are truly a ‘seafood superpower.’ We lead the country in exports of fish and seafood products. In 2013, those exports of seafood and fish amounted roughly $2.3 billion. I’m pleased that this bill will bolster Alaska’s fisheries and seafood. In all sectors, stronger trade agreements and enforcement mean more opportunity for our country’s workforce, from oil and gas workers, to those in the high tech industry, to farmers and fishermen.” The legislation also: Includes language from the Internet Tax Fairness Act that prohibits any state or local government from imposing taxes on Internet access or imposing discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. Makes certain amendments to the Trade Promotion Authority Act signed into law earlier this year. Addresses currency manipulation. Expresses a sense of the Congress urging the committees of jurisdiction to advance a regular and predictable suspension and reduction of duties consistent with Senate and House rules, i.e., a miscellaneous tariff bill. ###
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Sullivan Statement on U.S. Supreme Court Decision to Issue Stay on EPA’s Clean Power Plan WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to issue a stay on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Clean Power Plan: “I’m grateful that the court has halted this over-reaching jurisdictional expansion of the EPA's regulatory authority.” said Senator Sullivan. “We all want clean air and a healthy environment. However, the EPA has established itself as an agency that consistently ignores federal statutes and the Constitution. Several courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have ruled against its frequent attempts to bypass Congress and undermine middle class American families. I intend to keep a very close eye on this case.” ###
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Sullivan Applauds Signing of Coast Guard Authorization Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today thanked President Obama for signing the Coast Guard Authorization Act, which supports the U.S. Coast Guard, and includes an important provision transferring federal land at Point Spencer to the State of Alaska and Bering Straits Native Corporation. "The signing of the Coast Guard Authorization Act is a big win for improving America’s focus on the crucial Arctic region, and includes several important provisions for Alaska,” Senator Sullivan said. “With the transfer of land at Point Spencer, Alaskans are witnessing a major step toward expanding our nation’s Arctic infrastructure, including the prospect of our nation’s first-ever deep-draft Arctic port. Similarly, the Act includes other important land transfers and lays the groundwork for the Coast Guard to grow our Arctic icebreaker fleet, which for too long has lagged behind other nations. Alaskans should know their congressional delegation—Senator Murkowski, Congressman Young and I—worked together and in our respective committees to ensure these land transfers and important Arctic measures became a reality.” Background: The Coast Guard Authorization Act includes: The Point Spencer Land Conveyance Act, which conveys land at Point Spencer to the Bering Straits Native Corporation and the State of Alaska for potential infrastructure development. A land conveyance in Tok, which allows the Tanana Chiefs Conference (TCC) to continue operating the Tok Area Counseling Center, the only behavioral health center in the region. A provision that will reduce the cost of building a new fishing vessel, thereby encouraging new construction by providing a safe alternative to requiring costly certification by classification societies. Language paving the way for growing America’s polar icebreaker fleet by allowing the Coast Guard to pay for a polar icebreaker incrementally, rather than requiring full funding in a single year. The bill also requires the Coast Guard to determine the feasibility of refurbishing the icebreaker, “Polar Sea,” which has been laid up since suffering a catastrophic engine failure in 2010. Senator Sullivan also championed the following three amendments included in the final bill: The Pribilof Islands Transition Act Amendments of 2015, finalizing land transfers and conveyances owed to the people of St. Paul under the Fur Seal Act Amendments of 1983 and the Pribilof Transition Act of 2000. Cosponsored an amendment sponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), extending combat-related special compensation to members of the Coast Guard, commensurate with other branches of the military. Cosponsored an amendment sponsored by Sen. Cantwell (D-WA), authorizing $4 million in FY 2016, and $10 million FY 2017 for a feasibility study, specification development, and any other pre-acquisition activities necessary for procuring a polar icebreaker. ###
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Sullivan Statement on President Obama’s Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in response to President Obama’s FY 2017 budget proposal: “I appreciate that the President’s visit to Alaska is reflected in his budget. As he saw with his own eyes, an investment in Alaska’s Arctic is vital to our country’s interests. Although much more needs to be done, I’m pleased that the President included $150 million for planning and design of a single icebreaker, funds for the Denali Commission, as well as infrastructure investment, which is vital to Alaska. It’s unacceptable that more than 3,300 rural Alaska homes lack running water and a flush toilet. “However, the President’s budget contains items that I simply can’t support. A $10 tax on every barrel of oil would cripple Alaska’s economy, which is already reeling from low oil prices. He also proposes to increase taxes on Americans by $3.4 trillion over the next ten years and wrack up $10.6 trillion in new debt, which would total a whopping $27.4 trillion by the end of his budget. This is also unacceptable. Alaskans sent me to D.C. to grow our economy and ensure that the next generation is not saddled with our debt. This budget does the opposite.” ###
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Alaska Attorney General Seeks to Pursue Allegations Against Bill Allen February 5, 2016 (Anchorage, AK) – Alaska Attorney General Craig Richards announced today that, in accordance with an amendment sponsored by U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan, the state will seek authority to prosecute under the Mann Act. The Alaska Attorney General is seeking this authority so the Alaska Department of Law may evaluate whether to file charges against Bill Allen, the government’s main witness in the case against the late Senator Ted Stevens. Allegations of sexual misconduct with a minor were unearthed during the 2008 trial of Senator Stevens, but were never pursued. Two Alaska attorneys general, including Senator Sullivan, tried to pursue an investigation into the allegations, but were rebuffed without sufficient explanation by the U.S. Department of Justice. Due to an amendment that Senator Sullivan sponsored to the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in May, the Justice Department is now compelled to allow state prosecutors to pursue federal offenses under the Mann Act. The only way the Justice Department can decline this request is if it would undermine the administration of justice. The Mann Act makes it a felony to bring someone across state lines for prostitution and imposes enhanced penalties when the victim is a minor. Attorney General Richards has sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, requesting that the state be cross-designated to pursue an investigation and potential prosecution of Bill Allen for alleged Mann Act violations. “Today I wrote the U.S. Attorney General that I’m not aware of any reason that this request could undermine the administration of justice,” Attorney General Richards said. “In fact, it would do the opposite. Allegations of Mr. Allen’s misconduct remain an open and disturbing issue for our state.” Senator Sullivan said, “For years, whether in editorials or letters, our state attorneys general, and our senior U.S. Senator have been asking the Department of Justice the same questions: Why did you not prosecute Bill Allen for alleged sexual abuse of children, and why at a minimum did you not grant the state authority to do so when the case surrounding these crimes seemed strong? For seven years, the Department of Justice has brushed off directly answering these questions. That ends today. Because of the new law, the Department of Justice is now required to directly answer these questions to Attorney General Richards.” When Senator Sullivan served as Alaska’s Attorney General, the state’s Department of Law investigated the allegations against Bill Allen and requested that the Department of Law be cross-designated to bring federal charges against him for allegedly transporting minors across state lines for purposes of sex. The charges had to be filed by the federal government, or the Justice Department had to cross-designate the state to do so. The Justice Department declined without a complete explanation. Shortly after Senator Sullivan was elected, he asked Attorney General Lynch to provide a detailed explanation on the matter. The reply—received months later—was inadequate. “If the government made a deal with Bill Allen, it would constitute a scandal of the highest order and those who decided that prosecuting Senator Stevens was a higher priority than seeking justice for abused children should be exposed,” Senator Sullivan said. Attorney General Richards’ letter also touches on that issue. If the Justice Department refuses to cross-designate the state, “I would ask that the explanation for any denial answer the question of whether the Department’s decision is, in any way, based on a suggestion or assurance (whether expressed or implied) by any federal official to not prosecute Mr. Allen in order to secure his cooperation in the case brought against the Senator,” Attorney General Richards wrote. Senator Lisa Murkowski has also spent years trying to get answers from the Department of Justice. “I commend Senator Sullivan and Attorney General Richards for their commitment to hold Bill Allen accountable for his actions. For years I pressed former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to explain why the Department of Justice ignored the recommendations of its rank and file litigating attorneys, failed to prosecute Allen, and at the same time refused to let the state take up the prosecution,” said Senator Murkowski. “Thanks to Senator Sullivan’s legislation, the state of Alaska can now seek justice in this case. The Justice Department must either let Alaska prosecute Allen or come up with a compelling reason not to.” In 2008, Senator Stevens went to trial and was found guilty of ethics violations. Less than a year later, after numerous instances of prosecutorial misconduct were disclosed, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan dismissed all charges against Senator Stevens. "In nearly 25 years on the bench, I have never seen anything approaching the mishandling and misconduct I have seen in this case," Judge Sullivan said. ###
02.03.2016	02.03.16 Sullivan, Daines Introduce Measures to Split the Ninth Circuit Court Senators author bills to promote equal access to justice, restructure the most populous circuit court to better serve the American people WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Steve Daines (R-MT) have introduced two bills to address failures in America’s system of justice by restructuring the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which, because of its size and scope, denies citizens in its jurisdiction equal access to justice. The Federal Courts of Appeals Modernization Act would establish a commission to study the Federal Circuit Courts of Appeals system to identify the changes needed to be made in order to promote an “expeditious and effective disposition” of the Ninth Circuit caseload. Two prior commission—one in 1973 and the other in 1998—determined that the Ninth Circuit had an overly-burdensome size and scope negatively impacting the administration of justice for the nearly 65 million Americans subject to its jurisdiction. The Circuit Court of Appeals Restructuring and Modernization Act would split the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals into two circuits: the Ninth and the Twelfth Circuits. The reconfigured Ninth Circuit would then be comprised of California, Guam, Hawaii, and the Northern Mariana Islands. The new Twelfth Circuit would include Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. “Over four decades ago, a commission determined the Ninth Circuit to have ‘serious difficulties with backlog and delay’ and recommended it be split in the way other circuits have been in the past,” said Senator Sullivan. “Its disproportion has only grown since then. The population of the Ninth Circuit is nearly 85 percent bigger than the next largest circuit and covers 40 percent of our country’s land mass. Rather than address the problem of the equal access to justice for citizens living in its jurisdiction—including my constituents in Alaska—the court has used short-cuts to manage its workload. As a former judicial law clerk for the Ninth Circuit, I saw this firsthand. It’s time we address this issue rather than continue to allow our system of justice to be short-changed.” “When our courts are overburdened and overworked, Americans are left underserved and waiting too long for justice. It’s time to take a serious look at how our court system can better serve the American people,” Senator Daines stated. “The Ninth Circuit’s jurisdiction includes 20 percent of our country’s population, nearly twice the size of the next largest circuit, and holds more than 30 percent of all pending cases. The Ninth Circuit has failed to adequately serve Americans’ needs – it’s time a court system that functions and provides the American people with the service they deserve.” The full text of the Circuit Court of Appeals Restructuring and Modernization Act legislation is available HERE. Full text of the Federal Courts of Appeals Modernization Act is available HERE. About the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit: At 64.4 million people served, the current Ninth Circuit is the largest circuit by population, as well as the largest land area. It includes 20 percent of the nation’s population and is 85 percent larger than the next largest circuit, which serves just 34.8 million people. The Ninth Circuit has had on average more than 32 percent of all cases pending nationally. It currently has 14,200 cases pending— three times more than the next closest circuit, the Fifth Circuit, at 4,638 cases pending. The Ninth Circuit has averaged the longest median time from appeal to termination over the last five years at 14.7 months. The next closest was the Sixth Circuit at 12.7 months. In recent years, there has been a bipartisan push to help the Ninth Circuit with its heavy caseload, including a call by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in the 105th Congress for a commission to study the Ninth Circuit. This was the second commission to suggest that changes needed to be made to the structure of the federal courts of appeal. ###
02.03.2016	
02.01.2016	02.01.16 Coast Guard Bill Passes House, Heads to President’s Desk WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today heralded the U.S. House of Representative’s unanimous passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act, which included several key provisions vital to Alaskans’ interests. The legislation, which heads to the President’s desk for signature, authorizes funding to support the mission and needs of the U.S. Coast Guard through 2017. "The members of the U.S. Coast Guard are always ready to rescue Alaskans in moments of crisis and defend our nation when threats emerge,” said Senator Sullivan. “The Coast Guard Authorization Act provides vital support to the Coast Guard so that its brave men and women can fulfill their mission. The final bill also has some big wins for Alaska, including reducing the cost of building new fishing vessels for commercial fishermen, laying the groundwork for more icebreakers in the Arctic, and transferring several pieces of federal land into Alaskan hands for new development. I’m glad to see this bill heading to the President’s desk." Specifically, the Coast Guard Authorization Act includes: The Port Spencer Land Conveyance Act, which conveys land at Point Spencer to the Bering Straits Native Corporation and the State of Alaska for potential infrastructure development. A land conveyance in Tok, which will allow the Tanana Chiefs Conference (TCC) to continue operating the Tok Area Counseling Center, the only behavioral health center in the region. A provision that would reduce the cost of building a new fishing vessel, thereby encouraging new construction by providing a safe alternative to requiring costly certification by classification societies. Language that would pave the way for growing America’s polar icebreaker fleet by allowing the Coast Guard to pay for a polar icebreaker incrementally, rather than requiring full funding in a single year. The bill would also require the Coast Guard to determine the feasibility of refurbishing the icebreaker, “Polar Sea,” which has been laid up since suffering a catastrophic engine failure in 2010. Senator Sullivan also championed the following three amendments that were included in the final bill: The Pribilof Islands Transition Act Amendments of 2015, which would finalize land transfers and conveyances owed to the people of St. Paul under the Fur Seal Act Amendments of 1983 and the Pribilof Transition Act of 2000. Cosponsored an amendment sponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), which extends combat-related special compensation to members of the Coast Guard, commensurate with other branches of the military. Cosponsored an amendment sponsored by Sen. Cantwell (D-WA), which authorizes $4 million in FY 2016, and $10 million FY 2017 for a feasibility study, specification development, and any other pre-acquisition activities necessary for procuring a polar icebreaker. ###
02.01.2016	02.01.16 Senators Introduce Bill to Fix Backlog of VA Appeals WASHINGTON, DC - Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Bob Casey, Jr. (D-PA), Dean Heller (R-NV), and Jon Tester (D-MT) have introduced S. 2473, The Express Appeals Act, legislation establishing a new, voluntary five-year pilot program to help reduce the large backlog of appeals made by veterans to the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). “It is astonishing to me that an average veteran waits nearly 1,000 days – or almost three years – for the VA to resolve an appeal of one of their benefit decisions. Proud veterans across the U.S. – including more than 77,000 in Alaska – should not have to endure these absurd, multi-year wait times just to see their cases resolved. I am hopeful that – with the support of my colleagues – this bill will create a less-bureaucratic appeals express lane through which the VA can resolve its growing backlog of appeals quickly and favorably for all of our nation’s veterans,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Veterans have performed dedicated service to this country and it is our obligation to make sure their benefits process is as seamless as possible. It is unacceptable that our veterans are waiting on average three years to receive a decision on their appeal. With nearly one million veterans in Pennsylvania, it is crucial that we work to ensure that veterans get timely and accurate decisions on their appeals. As co-chair of the Senate VA Backlog Working Group, I am proud to join my colleagues on this important bill which will streamline the process, allowing quick resolve for benefits appeals and addressing the ever-existent backlog that we have been trying to defeat,” said Senator Bob Casey. “As Co-Chair of the Senate VA Backlog Working Group, ensuring Nevada and our nation’s veterans receive a decision on their disability claims in an accurate and timely manner has been a top priority for me in the Senate and on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee. The story is no different when a veteran appeals their claim decision. These heroes feel the VA has made a mistake and should not be penalized by having to wait two or more years for an appeal to be complete. This bill gives veterans more choice and flexibility to expedite their appeal while also preserving their rights, and I am proud to be a part of this effort to improve the process. I would like to thank my colleague Senator Dan Sullivan for his leadership on this important issue, and I am pleased to have Senators Casey and Tester right alongside as we fight for those who sacrificed,” said Senator Dean Heller. “While the VA is making progress on reducing the overall disability claims backlog, veterans who file an appeal are too often waiting years to get a final determination by the VA. By cutting bureaucratic red tape, this legislation provides veterans the option of having their disputes with the VA determined in a much more timely manner that reflects our commitment to them and their families. This is a common-sense bipartisan bill that will save the VA millions,” said Senator Jon Tester. “DAV and other stakeholders have been advocating for Fully Developed Appeals (FDA) for quite some time now and strongly support S. 2473, the Express Appeals Act of 2016, to create an FDA pilot program. With over 400,000 appeals sitting in a growing backlog, it is imperative to move forward with commonsense reform proposals like the FDA that have broad support in Congress, VA, the Board of Veterans Appeals and the veterans community. We look forward to working with Senator Sullivan and the other Senate and House sponsors to pass this much-needed FDA legislation into law in order to help veterans get quicker and more accurate final decisions on their claims for benefits. DAV is grateful to Senators Sullivan, Casey, Heller and Tester for their leadership and continued commitment to this critical legislation,” said Garry Augustine, Disabled American Veteran Washington Headquarters Executive Director. Background: As of January 2016, 400,000 veterans have appeals pending with the VA. The Express Appeals Act would establish a new channel whereby veterans, upon receiving a decision on an original claim by the VA, would have the option to file an express appeal with the Board of Veterans Appeals (BVA), in lieu of the traditional appeals process. The express appeals process would consolidate the traditional process aimed at reducing veterans’ wait times. First, the appeals pilot program would omit the remand process, in which the BVA sends a veteran’s appeal back to the VBA for additional evidence development, saving the veteran an average of 545 days. Second, the veteran would submit a “Statement of Argument,” detailing how the VBA decided their original claim incorrectly, in place of the VBA’s own time-consuming development of a “Statement of Case,” saving veterans an average of 408 days. Additionally, entrance into this program would be completely voluntary and a veteran would be able to exit the express appeals process at any time and re-enter the traditional pipeline at the end of the line with no adverse consequences. S. 2473 has been referred to the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, of which three of the bill’s four sponsors are members. ###
01.31.2016	01.31.16 Overstepped bounds on game management: Federal government goes too far in attempting to limit hunting in refuges News-Miner opinion: President Jimmy Carter remarked at the signing ceremony of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act on Dec. 2, 1980 at the White House that the act “without a doubt is one of the most important pieces of conservation legislation ever passed in this Nation.” The late Sen. Ted Stevens of Alaska, among the members of Congress invited to speak after the president, had a polite but different view. He noted that neither side achieved what it wanted. “So, we’re not finished, Mr. President; we’ve just really started.” What started that day in Washington was a battle over implementation and interpretation of the new law and the reach of the federal government into Alaska, where ANILCA established 104 million acres as various types of conservation units. The latest skirmish in this never-ending quarrel with the federal government involves the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and its proposed rules, made public Jan. 8, ending some lawful hunting activities on national refuges in the state. Alaskans should be clearly concerned — even alarmed — that these proposed rules are just more in a long list of attempts by the federal government to amend the Alaska Statehood Act. The best course of action for a state that has grown weary of federal creep is to act swiftly rather than to rely on the court system. And that is what Republican Sen. Dan Sullivan has done. Sen. Sullivan introduced an amendment earlier this month to prevent the Fish and Wildlife Service from finalizing its proposed refuge rules. The amendment was attached to the senator’s Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act, which the Environment and Public Works Committee approved Jan. 20. The key issue with the Fish and Wildlife Service proposal is a fundamental difference in management approach regarding moose, caribou and deer populations. The state of Alaska manages for human consumption; the federal government does not. Sport hunting and trapping is generally governed by the laws of the individual states, even on refuge lands, subject to some limitations. But the state of Alaska also has an “intensive management” law that requires that moose, caribou and deer populations be managed “to achieve human consumptive use goals.” To that end, the state operates predator control programs on its land to boost prey populations as needed. The Fish and Wildlife Service doesn’t allow predator control programs on any federal refuges in Alaska. The federal agency’s proposed rule attacks what it sees as an effort by the state to use other authority — the state regulations for general sport hunting and trapping that apply on refuge land — to achieve the aim of managing moose, caribou and deer primarily for human use. The proposed regulations ending some methods and periods of hunting black and brown bears, wolves and coyotes bluntly show the agency’s disdain for the Alaska way of life: “Demands for more wildlife for human harvest cannot be the sole or primary basis for predator control.” Alaska would appear to have a winning argument that the Fish and Wildlife Service is overstepping its authority. A look at the Alaska Statehood Act shows it. Section 6(e) of the Statehood Act says the federal government will retain administration and management of fish and wildlife in Alaska until the Interior secretary “certifies to the Congress that the Alaska State Legislature has made adequate provision for the administration, management, and conservation of said resources in the broad national interest…” That certification came on April 27, 1959, when Interior Secretary Fred Seaton concluded in a two-page letter that “I hereby certify that the Alaska State Legislature has made adequate provision for the administration, management and conservation of the fish and wildlife resources of Alaska in the broad national interest.” And with that, Alaska was put in charge of fish and wildlife management. The Fish and Wildlife Services argues in its proposed rule that it is guided by the Alaska lands act of 1980. But Section 1314(a) of that very act undermines the agency’s position by stating, “Nothing in this Act is intended to enlarge or diminish the responsibility and authority of the State of Alaska for management of fish and wildlife on the public lands...,” the only exception being a priority for subsistence users in times of shortage. The authority of the Statehood Act prevails. The agency’s proposed rule is another in a lengthy series of attempts to erode Alaska’s fish and wildlife authority, granted at statehood. Sen. Stevens, in his remarks 35 years ago at the signing of ANILCA at the White House, touched on the propensity of people in the Lower 48 to want Alaska governed in a such a way as to make up for their own past land management sins. “... we’ve disagreed from the point of view of the half-million people who live there 365 days a year trying to protect our rights when we see the avalanche of 225 million people who want to prevent us from making the mistakes that their predecessors made with regard to their lands.” It is well past time that this treatment of Alaska stopped, which is why Sen. Sullivan’s pushback against this latest Fish and Wildlife Service intrusion on that authority is so important. By: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner Editorial Board Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
01.30.2016	01.30.16 Sullivan Statement on U.S. Navy Freedom of Navigation Operation in South China Sea WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today on the U.S. Navy’s recent freedom of navigation operation in the South China Sea: ‎"I am encouraged by reports of a second recent U.S. freedom of navigation operation in the South China Sea, an area that is home to some of the busiest transit routes in the world. Freedom of navigation and the U.S. operations that safeguard it are vital to ensuring the safe and uninhibited passage of ‎global commerce. The importance of these operations – and men and women who conduct them – cannot be understated. I am hopeful that we will soon do these operations with our allies and, one day, they will become so commonplace that they no longer make news and they no longer require hearings and letters from the Senate Armed Services Committee." ###
01.28.2016	01.28.16 Senator Sullivan Statement on Moda Health WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement in reaction to news that Moda Health will be leaving the state of Alaska’s individual marketplace and will not be issuing new insurance policies for other plans. “I’m extremely disappointed that the health care of thousands of Alaskans will be negatively affected by the inability of Moda Health to issue new insurance policies in the state and its exit from the individual exchange and other markets in Alaska. Even before this news, I have been hearing from hundreds of Alaskans who were pleading for help due to skyrocketing insurance premiums. Unfortunately, this development will result in more hardship. “For this reason, I’ve reached out to senior officials at the Department of Health and Human Services to request any form of immediate relief for Alaskans, who have been some of the most negatively impacted Americans by Obamacare. “Moda’s problems in Alaska are further evidence that Obamacare is colossal failure for Alaskans. Nearly every promise made by the President, as well as by those who voted for the act, has been broken. That's why the law needs to be replaced with one that allows insurance companies to continue to be able to provide coverage for Alaskans.” ###
01.27.2016	01.27.16 Sullivan Honored to Announce 2016 Military Service Academy Nominations WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) had the honor and privilege of nominating 33 outstanding young Alaskans to four of our country’s U.S. Military Service Academies. “This year’s selection of candidates exhibited the characteristics that will help them to succeed as leaders in our nation’s military: academic excellence, demonstrated leadership, and a commitment to serving their community and nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “This was my first opportunity since becoming senator to nominate candidates for our nation’s outstanding Military Service Academies, and I can’t tell you how impressed I am with the field of exceptional future Alaskan leaders who want to serve their country.” These nominations allow them to continue to compete for an appointment to the academies. Appointments are made individually by the academies. Senator Sullivan’s class of 2020 Military Service Academy nominees are as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy: Athaliah Abriel – Anchorage Gabriel Atchley – Anchorage Marcus Amico – Eagle River Tara DeGeorge – Anchorage Wilton Farmwald – Anchorage Brandon Fast – Eagle River Zachary Kornblatt – JBER Mary Elizabeth Lewis – Soldotna Dillon Scarboro – North Pole Patrick Timmons – Sitka U.S. Military Academy: Sylvan Blankenship – Ketchikan Adam Cusack – Anchorage Cole George – Anchorage Wyatt Hoyes – Fairbanks Olivia Jeans – North Pole Robert Kilbourn – Fairbanks Cole Phelps – Anchorage Holden Quinn – Palmer Eric Tucker – Anchorage U.S. Naval Academy: Nathaniel Adams – Anchorage Asia Brooks – Anchorage Alexandra Butler – Wasilla Justin Calimlim – Anchorage Henry Foxglove Downey – Anchorage Hannah Getter – Chugiak Ryan Kavalok – Palmer Jack Martensen – Anchorage John Norton – Kodiak Maxwell Suzuki – Juneau U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Spencer Evans – Anchorage Brody Lambert – JBER Brandon Thomas – Anchorage In his first year in office, Senator Sullivan established a Service Academy Selection Board, comprised of nine members from across Alaska who reviewed the applications and interviewed each of the applicants, and recommended the most qualified and deserving individuals for nomination. Board members include service academy alumni, combat veterans, members of the Alaska Air National Guard, as well as those intimately familiar with the academy nomination process. “I am honored by the board’s participation and dedication. They volunteered countless hours reviewing applications, interviewing candidates, and discussing the qualifications of potential nominees,” said Senator Sullivan. “I am thankful for the breadth of expertise they brought to this process to nominate young Alaskans to become the next leaders of the world’s most esteemed military.” Senator Sullivan’s 2016 Service Academy Selection Board: Eric Feige – Chickaloon Grace Greene – Girdwood Win Gruening – Juneau Dan F. Kennedy – Wasilla Kathlene Rowell – Palmer Thomas P. Senter, M.D. – Anchorage/Nikiski Butch Stein – Fairbanks Bill Thomas – Haines Keenan Zerkel – Anchorage NOTE: The U.S. Coast Guard Academy does not require a Congressional nomination for their application. ###
01.22.2016	01.22.16 Senator moves to halt proposed ban on Alaska predator hunts FAIRBANKS — U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan is looking to stop a proposed U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ban on some bear, wolf and coyote hunts on federal wildlife refuges in the state. An amendment to Sullivan’s Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015 would prohibit the federal agency from enacting hunting restrictions the agency announced earlier this month, The Fairbanks Daily News-Miner reported. Federal wildlife officials on Jan. 8 proposed changes to hunting and trapping rules for national wildlife refuges in Alaska, covering about 77 million acres. The proposal includes bans on brown bear baiting, killing wolves and coyotes during the denning season and targeting bears with snares or traps. Hunts like those violate the agency’s conservation mission by deliberately targeting predators to increase the output of large game animal like deer, caribou and moose for human consumption, according to the text of the proposed rule. Sullivan’s amendment is the latest move in a decades-long dispute over the U.S. government’s control of Alaska’s federal lands. State leaders and legislators have argued that the federal government has violated the Statehood Act and the 1980 Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act that created most of the federal wildlife refuges in the state. “It would fundamentally change the relationship the Fish and Wildlife Service has with individual states from one of cooperation to subservience,” Sullivan said Wednesday. “And that is not what the federal laws — ANILCA, the Statehood Act — have guaranteed Alaska.” But the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has the power to make additional rules in support of its conservation mission, according to the explanation of the agency’s proposed rule published in the Federal Register. “Under ANILCA, each refuge in Alaska has a nonexclusive list of purposes for which it was established, including ‘conserve fish and wildlife populations and habitats in their natural diversity,” the proposed rule states. Sullivan’s bill is now out of committee, but he said he was not sure when it would reach the Senate floor. In addition to the language added Wednesday, the bill addresses several other federal sports hunting rules. It seeks to loosen the definition of “baited areas” used in bird hunting rules and allows for more funds from gun and ammunition sales to go toward public shooting ranges. By: Associated Press Source: Associated Press
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Bill to Support Hospitals in Smaller Communities Passes Senate WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski today thanked their colleagues for passing S. 607, a bill they cosponsored that was introduced by Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), which extends the Medicare Rural Community Hospital (RCH) Demonstration Program. “The RCH demo programs are critical for the bottom line of health care institutions serving smaller populations, like the Kenai Peninsula and Juneau,” said Senator Sullivan. “The program has allowed several Alaska hospitals to expand critical services, purchase needed technology and equipment, and attract new physicians, stabilizing health services in large regions of Alaska. Thanks to the Senate’s action, these hospitals can continue improving care for Alaskans.” “This Rural Community Hospital Demonstration Program provides vital care for many Alaskans in more remote communities where the next closest hospital may be 100 or more miles away,” said Senator Murkowski. “This program has helped hospitals in sparsely populated states keep their doors open and has truly made a big impact in smaller communities in our state. Programs like this are essential to preserving our Alaska lifestyle, and I’m pleased to see that my Senate colleagues recognized the importance of this valuable program.” The RCH demonstration program reimburses rural hospitals with only 25 – 51 acute care beds for providing inpatient services to Medicare patients. The program, which began in 2003 as a five-year demo project, was extended another five years in 2009, but failed to be extended in 2015. Alaska’s three participating hospitals–Central Peninsula Hospital in Soldotna; Bartlett Regional Hospital in Juneau; and SEARHC Mt. Edgecumbe of Sitka–lost funding in 2015. Since the RCH program lapsed, SEARHC changed its classification to a “Critical Access Hospital,” which better serves its reimbursement needs. Central Peninsula and Bartlett Regional are seeking reauthorization of the RCH program. Below are statements from the CEOs of Central Peninsula and Bartlett Regional Hospitals about the Senate’s passage of S. 607: “Central Peninsula Hospital is appreciative the Senate has acted to extend the Rural Community Hospital demonstration program today,” said Rick Davis, CEO of Central Peninsula Hospital in Soldotna, Alaska. “Three hospitals in Alaska have participated in this program. The program ended for CPH on June 30, 2015 before Congress could reauthorize it. I am grateful and appreciate the effort our Congressional delegation has dedicated towards getting us one step closer to reauthorizing this crucial program for CPH and other participating hospitals.” “On behalf of Bartlett Regional Hospital, I want to thank Senators Sullivan and Murkowski for their leadership in cosponsoring this bill extending the Rural Hospital Medicare Demonstration project,” said Chuck Bill, CEO of Bartlett Regional Hospital in Juneau, Alaska. “This program provides improved reimbursement for our growing Medicare population and is a crucial factor in the hospital’s financial viability. I am confident that Congressman Young will be equally successful in the House.” # # #
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Secretary of Army nominee commits to work to keep troops in Alaska WASHINGTON, D.C. – At a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing today, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) received a commitment from Eric Fanning, the Secretary of the Army nominee, to cut troops that aren’t capable of fighting before cutting our “trigger puller” troops, including the 4-25 Airborne Brigade Combat Team currently stationed at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage. (Click the image above to watch Sen. Sullivan at the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing) “If confirmed, I need your 110 percent commitment that the very last soldiers that we’re cutting are the combat-effective, tip-of-the-spear, strategically located infantry soldiers who can fight tonight if they need to,” Senator Sullivan said. “In other words, that you and General Milley would commit to cut these trigger-pullers, strategically located like the 4-25, absolutely, positively last relative to any other soldiers you're looking at cutting.” Fanning said, “You absolutely have that commitment.” As mandated by President Obama, the Army is cutting troops across the country to downsize from 490,000 to 450,000. Currently, out of the total number of Army personnel, there are 1,500 band members and 1,100 prisoners at Ft. Leavenworth, and more than 15,000 members of the Army who are in the process of leaving the Army and are not available for deployments or combat. “So when we talk about the 450,000, there are literally thousands, tens of thousands that are not deployable, not capable of fighting,” Sullivan said. Earlier this year, the Army announced that it planned to downsize the 4-25 Airborne Brigade Combat Team. However, the Chief of Staff of the Army, General Mark Milley, has said that decision is “on hold.” After agreeing with Senator Sullivan on the significance of the 4-25 for possible conflicts in the Arctic and with North Korea, Fanning said at the hearing that if confirmed, he would work with General Milley to reverse the Army’s decision. He said that he has a particular interest in Alaska’s strategic importance to national security “(b)ecause of the range space…the proximity, not just to adversaries or potential adversaries in the Pacific, but proximity to our partners in terms of training.” Further, other members of the Senate Armed Services Committee—Senators Angus King (I-Maine), Deb Fischer (R-Neb), and Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) —also shared Senator Sullivan’s concern over cutting troops in Alaska. (Click the image above to watch Senators King, Fischer and Ernst discuss the planned 4-25 reductions) Because of “huge” military buildup by the Russians in the Arctic, Senator King questioned whether cutting troops in the area made strategic sense. “(T)he idea of the depopulating or diminishing our force availability in that region, it seems to me -- again, given changed assumptions, it may have made good sense, two years, five years ago. I'm not sure it makes sense today,” Senator King said. Senator Fischer also shared Senator Sullivan’s concerns. “I would like to begin by thanking Senator Sullivan for bringing to your attention some questions and comments that he has about our concern that we have with Russia, especially in the Arctic,” Senator Fischer said. “I think many times we don't focus on that because of the truly large challenges that we see all around this world, but I do appreciate his comments and I do share his concerns that he has about the 4-25.” Senator Ernst said possible cuts to the 4-25 and protecting our assets in the Pacific Northwest were “of great concern,” to the committee. “Many of us have talked that through. And so I would appreciate your consideration with that as well,” Senator Ernst said. # # #
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Sullivan Attends Sturgeon Supreme Court Oral Arguments WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), along with other Alaskans – including Senator Lisa Murkowski – attended oral arguments at the U.S. Supreme Court today for Sturgeon v. Frost, a case that cuts to the heart of Alaska’s sovereignty. Alaskan John Sturgeon is suing the National Park Service after being forced off the Nation River for using a hovercraft to hunt moose. The Park Service claimed it controlled that stretch of land, even though the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA) says otherwise. A section of ANILCA was carefully written with Alaska sovereignty in mind and clearly prohibits federal control over such lands and waters. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit sided with the Park Service in Sturgeon v. Frost, giving the Park Service expansive rights over state and Native land. “It’s a really a simple case,” said Senator Sullivan. “The federal government, as it’s done numerous times in Alaska, is trying to usurp congressional authority to control lands that aren’t theirs to control. It’s also the story of one man—John Sturgeon—who followed the letter of the law and refused to back down when the federal government didn’t likewise follow the law. I think that point was made loud and clear during oral arguments. “In Alaska, our land and our waters are our lifeblood. The more the federal government takes, the less control we have over our economic destiny. The people of Alaska know this. John Sturgeon knows this. Members of the Supreme Court appeared to understand this. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito went so far as to call the 9th Circuit ruling a ‘ridiculous interpretation’ of the law. Nonetheless, this interpretation is already being used by the Park Service to enact further regulation of oil and gas production on non-federal lands in Alaska. “Mr. Sturgeon’s lawyer, Matthew Findley, argued that if the 9th Circuit decision is left to stand, ‘the hits are going to keep on coming unless this Court stops this interpretation.’ “I agree. It is time for this Court to end the federal government’s long history of wrongfully seizing power over the State of Alaska’s lands.” A decision is expected before June. To read a transcript of the hearing, CLICK HERE. ###
01.20.2016	01.20.16 Sullivan Amendment Halts Proposed USFWS Changes to Wildlife Management on Alaska Refuges WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee’s Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, today successfully added an amendment to S. 659, the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015, prohibiting the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service from implementing a recently proposed rule that preempts state management of fish, wildlife, and their habitats on national wildlife refuges in Alaska, as guaranteed in the Alaska Statehood Act and the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA). “I took action today to stop a regulation that would fundamentally change the Fish and Wildlife Service’s relationship with Alaska from one of cooperation to one of subservience,” Senator Sullivan said. “Federal law is clear: With limited exception, the State has the authority to manage wildlife throughout Alaska. Unfortunately, when faced with a federal law it disagrees with, the Fish and Wildlife Service has taken a route too many other federal agencies have in recent years: bypassing the will of Congress and seeking to implement its policies via regulation.” On January 8, 2016, the Fish and Wildlife Service announced a proposed rule restricting certain state-approved management practices, limiting public input in the management process, and expanding closure procedures on refuges in Alaska. The rule is opposed by the State of Alaska, Alaska’s congressional delegation, and the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, an organization representing all 50 states. “Alaska has the best management of fish and game of any state or country in the world,” Senator Sullivan said. “The Fish and Wildlife Service simply has no justification for preempting the science-based management conducted by the Alaska Board of Game in an open and public process.” S.659, the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015, sponsored by Senator Sullivan, would protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, and shooting. This legislation passed the Environment and Public Works Committee by a vote of 12 to 8, and will next head to the Senate floor where it is expected to be joined with a similar bill, S.556, sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), which passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in November. ###
01.19.2016	01.19.16 Sullivan Seeks to Work with President Obama on Solution to Overregulation WASHINGTON, DC - Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) sent a letter to President Obama today in an effort to work across party lines toward a solution to onerous and outdated federal regulations, which the President identified as an issue he wants to address with members of Congress in his final year in office. “I believe a thriving private sector is the lifeblood of our economy,” President Obama said in his final State of the Union address. “I think there are outdated regulations that need to be changed. There is red tape that needs to be cut." Senator Sullivan agrees with the president that something has to be done to help our struggling private sector. Cutting regulations is a start. Regulatory compliance is costing our country roughly $1.88 trillion a year. The past seven years has seen one of the slowest recoveries in history. Wages are down. Today, 15.7 million Americans are unemployed, working part time because they cannot find full-time employment, or want work but have stopped looking altogether. The national debt in 2009 was $10.6 trillion. Today it’s $18.9 trillion. “This situation is dire,” Senator Sullivan said. “The American people expect us to act. We have an opportunity to live up to the President’s call to ‘work together’ for ‘the future we want.’ A broad majority in both houses of Congress – Democrats and Republicans alike – stand ready to work with the Administration toward a solution.” In August of 2015, Senator Sullivan introduced the RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act, which requires any federal agency issuing a new regulation to sunset one or more existing regulations. To ensure agencies comply, the RED Tape Act withholds cost of living adjustments from any agency that refuses to abide by the rule. “The United Kingdom and Canada recognized the challenges posed by overregulation and instituted similar one-in-one-out measures in recent years,” Senator Sullivan said. “The RED Tape Act and its underlying principle can be just as effective here in the United States. “I sincerely hope the President will lend his support to the RED Tape Act, and work with me and other members of Congress to help middle class workers and take our country back from the grip of a broken regulatory system.” Senator Sullivan’s letter to President Obama is available at: Regulatory Reform Letter to President Obama ###
01.16.2016	01.16.16 Sullivan Issues Statement on Release of American Hostages WASHINGTON, DC -- Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement regarding the announcement that five American hostages in Iran have been released: “We are all relieved that five Americans, unjustly imprisoned by Iran, are on their way home. I can only imagine the joy and relief being felt by the families of Amir Hekmati, Saeed Abedini, Jason Rezaian, and two other Americans whose imprisonments were not previously disclosed. But I’m outraged that it appears that at least one American still remains in captivity, that our fellow citizens endured harsh treatment at the hands of the Iranians, that it took so long to get them home, and that their freedom appears to have involved a swap and concessions that will further put our country and our allies at risk. I certainly hope that Secretary of State John Kerry or others in the Obama Administration won’t again express ‘gratitude’ and appreciation toward Iran for unlawfully taking the freedom of our citizens.” ###
01.15.2016	01.15.16 Sullivan: President Obama’s war on coal is also war on the middle class WASHINGTON, D.C.— Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Member Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s coal lease moratorium on federal lands: “In 2008, President Obama said that he would propose an energy plan where 'electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.' Unfortunately, he’s kept his word. The president’s unprecedented war on coal is also a war on the middle class. Further, we’ll be sacrificing one of our country’s most effective global economic advantages, as well as one of our greatest potential security assets: access to affordable energy. Today, it’s coal. Tomorrow it could be oil and gas. Once again, this Administration is handing a big win to extreme environmentalists at the expense of hard-working Americans, and our national and economic security.” ###
01.13.2016	01.13.16 Sullivan: Obama Administration's Response to Iranian Detention of 10 American Sailors is a Disgrace WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today about Secretary of State John Kerry expressing “gratitude” to Iran for releasing ten American sailors which it took hostage: “In the aftermath of ten U.S. sailors being taken hostage and then released by the Iranians, Secretary of State John Kerry expressed ‘gratitude to Iranian authorities for their cooperation.' Expressing gratitude—after Iran takes ten American service members hostage and publishes photos of them on their knees—sends the wrong message to the world and our allies. What about outrage? Humiliation at the hands of the Iranians has become a sad hallmark of the Obama Administration. “Secretary Kerry’s reaction mirrors the apparent lack of outrage or urgency in the freeing of five other Americans being held captive in Iran, as well as other recent hostile acts by Iran, including the firing of rockets near a U.S. aircraft carrier, and the country’s testing of ballistic missiles in clear violation of U.N. Security Council Resolution 1929. “I find it remarkable, and disgraceful that the Obama Administration continues to move forward with billions of dollars in sanctions relief for the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, a regime that has demonstrated clearly after the signing of the nuclear deal it has every intention of continuing its destabilizing, provocative behavior that undermines the national security interests of our country.” ###
01.13.2016	01.13.16 Sullivan Responds to President’s Final State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “I’ve always appreciated President Obama’s considerable oratorical skills. Tonight, I was heartened that he spent some time highlighting what’s good about our country and emphasizing America’s unique optimistic spirit. We can never forget that for our resources, our hardworking citizens, our collective big heart, and our form of government, we are truly the envy of the world. I also appreciated his call at the end of his speech to work together. “But I was disappointed that he wasn’t straight with the American people about the challenges we face. This Administration has overseen one of the slowest recoveries in history. Since President Obama took office, our gross domestic product only grew at a little less than 2 percent, hurting middle class families. Incomes are down. Today, 15.7 million Americans are unemployed, working part time because they cannot find full-time employment, or want work but have stopped looking altogether. The national debt in 2009 was $10.6 trillion. Today it’s $18.9 trillion. “And opportunity in this country is being increasingly stifled by a federal government that believes it needs to regulate every aspect of business and American life. The President’s vague reference to increase costs of the energy industry signals that he wants even more regulation. “In short, it appears that this President truly believes that growing government—at the expense of individual freedom and ingenuity—is the proper way to structure our society. I fundamentally disagree. I believe that the creative fire, fundamental to each individual, is stamped out when government dictates the boundaries of success. We should always remember that people, not bureaucracies, are what made this country the greatest in the world. “Leadership in foreign affairs and national defense is also severely lacking. The world is a more dangerous place than when the President took office. ISIS, which launched another attack in Turkey today, is a lingering and increasing threat. Huge swaths of Iraq and Syria have descended into chaos. Libya and Yemen are becoming failed states. Russia is provoking us at every turn, including in the Arctic. China is building islands illegally in heavily trafficked international shipping lanes. North Korea may have just tested another nuclear device. Given all of this, the President is still planning to make the mistake of cutting our military forces in Alaska and elsewhere. “Further, we are on the cusp of giving Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, a huge economic boost, sure to assist them in their drive to achieve hegemony in the Middle East. Remember, this regime regularly chants “death to America,” and has refused to release the five Americans it is holding hostage—some of them for years. And just today, conspicuously absent from the President’s speech, Iran took U.S. sailors hostage and accused them of spying. “During his last year in office, I hope that President Obama begins to be straight with the American people about our challenges, both at home and abroad. And I hope that he has a real plan—rather than pure rhetoric—to begin to set it right and to keep us safe.” ###
01.13.2016	
01.08.2016	01.08.16 Sullivan deeply concerned over USFWS proposed changes to wildlife management on Alaska refuges WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) expressed deep concern over the United States Fish and Wildlife Service’s (USFWS) proposed regulatory changes to wildlife management on national wildlife refuges in Alaska, which would restrict access and limit hunting, fishing and trapping activities, preempting the State of Alaska’s authority and science-based management regime. In all, Alaska has 16 national wildlife refuges comprising 76,774,229 acres. The proposed rule would erode state wildlife management in contravention of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act and the National Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act, by restricting certain state-approved sporting practices, limiting public input in the management process, and expanding closure procedures. “It continually surprises me how little regard the federal government has for our state and its people,” Senator Sullivan said. “We in Alaska understand the land. We drink its water. We hunt and fish and trap on it. We live on it and we, not the federal government, are best able to decide how to manage it. Further, I’m extremely troubled that the USFWS is trying to change policy without going through Congress. These regulations are not based on any conservation need, but are just one more example of the federal government trying to restrict Alaskans’ way of life.” While this rulemaking is specific to refuge lands in Alaska, many of its impacts could later be replicated nationwide. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife within the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Senator Sullivan will continue examining this rulemaking in the coming months. Below are statements about the proposed rules from resource experts in Alaska: “The responsibility of Alaska State Board of Game is to ensure healthy and viable wildlife populations under the sustained yield principle for the benefit of all Alaskans. The proposed rule by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service circumvents the Board’s authority, violates scientific conservation principles and creates a new refuge system that turns federal public lands into quasi preservation units. This is not what federal law specifies under ANILCA, and not what Congress intended.” Ted Spraker Chairman, Alaska Board of Game "SCI supports conservation based on sustainable management principles and believes the North American Model for Wildlife Conservation remains the best plan for perpetuating wildlife species in the world. That plan is under assault, not only from zealots in the anti-hunting community, but with the recent moves by the National Park Service and now, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, it is obvious that our own government has joined ranks with the zealots and are attacking America's first conservationists, the American hunter. Implementation of these rules will ensure the loss of state management and with it the loss of opportunity for all hunters, including those in rural communities that hunt to feed their families. Acquiescing to this bureaucratic tyranny is not an option." Eddie Grasser SCI Vice President Co-Chair SCI Government Affairs Committee Chair Hunter Defense Fund Chair Task Force on Partnerships “Alaska’s Professional Hunters Association (APHA) is deeply concerned by USFWS’s proposed regulatory changes. APHA members are among the world’s most experienced hunting guides who make their living safely accompanying sportsmen and women from around the world on fair chase, wilderness hunts. Hunters from across the country, indeed the world, book their trips years in advance. Now USFWS proposes to add “natural diversity, biological integrity, and environmental health” to why they can bar hunters from their lands. At the same time they are seeking to extend closures 3 times (300%) longer. Alaska's is proud of its thriving game populations yet USFWS proposes to close refuges to sportsmen if there is somehow not enough “natural diversity.” APHA members spend tens of thousands of days afield every year yet none of us understands how to manage for “natural diversity or biological integrity.” All sportsmen and women, whether they intend to travel to Alaska as one of our guests or not, should question why USFWS wants to make it easier to close their federal public lands. Alaska is home to 80% of America’s refuge lands, having the Alaska's refuges “closed, we’ll keep you posted” would be great loss to all American sportsmen and women.” Thor Stacey Alaska Professional Hunters Association Inc. Director of Government Affairs ###
01.06.2016	01.06.16 Sullivan: North Korean Nuclear Test Emphasizes Alaska’s Strategic Importance WASHINGTON, D.C -- U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on the recent reports of a hydrogen bomb test by North Korea late last evening. “The disturbing news out of North Korea, if confirmed, further illustrates the strategic short-sidedness of removing America’s only Airborne Brigade Combat Team in the entire Asia-Pacific. "Alaska's strategically placed forces are critical to our nation's Arctic and Asia-Pacific security. With an unstable North Korean dictator with nuclear capabilities, and a massive build-up of Russian military forces in the Arctic, why has the Obama Administration made the decision to downsize Alaska's military forces? "I commend Chief of Staff of the Army General Milley for his efforts to re-examine the planned reduction of the 4-25 IBCT (ABN), and was pleased that the new Undersecretary of the Army Patrick Murphy committed to me during a Senate Armed Services hearing that he would support the development of a strong Operations Plan for the Arctic. "Weakness is provocative. The United States’ credibility in responding to major international events is being challenged and our enemies know it, as do our allies. Bolstering our forces in the North would send a strong message that the United States is serious about upholding our promises, reaffirming our alliances, and deterring aggression from our adversaries." Senator Sullivan sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee. As part of his duties on that committee, he has traveled to the Asia-Pacific twice in the last year and has met with numerous senior government officials in the region. ###
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Sullivan Statement on USFWS Decision to Not List the Alexander Archipelago Wolf ANCHORAGE, AK — U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s decision that the Alexander Archipelago wolves in Southeast Alaska do not warrant protection as an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA): “I commend the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for following sound science, instead of the political whims of Outside interest groups, to determine that the wolves in Southeast Alaska do not warrant protection as an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. I’m also pleased that the agency determined that wolves on Prince of Wales and nearby islands do not qualify as a distinct population segment for listing consideration under the ESA. “As I wrote to Fish and Wildlife Director Dan Ashe last month, the ‘listing of wolves in Southeast Alaska will have serious consequences, particularly in regards to land management on the Tongass National Forest and on the few private, state, and Alaska Native owned lands in the region.’ I sent Director Ashe the most recent studies on the wolves and urged him not to make a decision lightly. I’m pleased that he and his agency listened to Alaskans on this matter. And I hope that the agency will continue to make its determinations based on science rather than politics.” ###
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Sullivan Reacts To Whittling Away of Alaskans’ Right to Bear Arms ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in reaction to President Obama’s announced gun control measures via executive action: “Like most Alaskans, I’m extremely troubled by President Obama’s executive actions that limit our Second Amendment rights. The president failed to get a gun control bill through a Senate controlled by his own party in 2013. Now he’s decided to take certain actions to bypass Congress. Make no mistake, these actions are a direct affront to our Constitution, which dictates that Congress, not the Executive Branch, makes laws. But the President has repeatedly shown that he believes that if the citizens of this country, through their representatives, stand up to him, he can go around them through executive fiat. Examples are numerous and extend to our lands, our waters, our energy sector, our financial and healthcare industries and to our technology sector. The implications of this kind of overreach for our constitutional form of government are profound. But his most recent actions to limit who can buy, sell and trade in firearms is particularly troubling for Alaskans, many of whom depend on their guns for protection and to feed their family. “Alaskans are horrified by murders carried out by criminals and terrorists, such as what happened in San Bernardino, CA. But we understand that whittling away our right to bear arms and keeping guns out of the hands of law-abiding citizens is not the way to prevent these tragedies. “The President claims that he’s acting because Congress ‘has failed’ to do so. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Congress has acted. We have listened to the people we represent who soundly reject the President’s overreach. And we will continue to listen to them, and do all we can to protect their constitutional rights.” ###
12.28.2015	12.28.15 Sullivan Commends Leaders of Republic of Korea and Japan on ‘Comfort Women’ Settlement WASHINGTON, D.C--Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement on the settlement of the dispute between the Republic of Korea and Japan over World War II-era “Comfort Women.” “I commend the leaders of both the Republic of Korea and Japan for directly addressing the painful and difficult issue of ‘Comfort Women’ during World War II and the involvement and responsibility of Japan’s military. This agreement should further help healing and reconciliation between two of our most important allies in the Asia Pacific and hasten trilateral cooperation on a variety of security, economic and humanitarian issues among our three countries.” Senator Sullivan sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee. As part of his duties on that committee, he has traveled to the Asia Pacific twice in the last year and has met with numerous senior government officials in the region. ###
12.23.2015	12.23.15 Sullivan focuses on economy, regulation reform Economics, regulation and the military ruled the conversation during Sen. Dan Sullivan’s speech to the joint Kenai and Soldotna chambers of commerce luncheon on Wednesday. Sullivan, who has just completed his first year in Washington, D.C., presented a crowd of about 80 with a rundown of his views on the current national political situation. Because it is the holiday season, he said he wanted to focus on the positive while still touching on future challenges. “Believe it or not, you can sometimes get a sense that people are focused on the negative, but I thought it would be good to focus on what a lot of people do over the holidays, on our blessings,” Sullivan said. “I think a lot of us would agree as Alaskans, as Americans, we are truly blessed.” Sullivan said he is not satisfied with the current economic growth in the country, which hovers around 2 percent annually. The gross domestic product, which measures the overall value of everything produced in the country, has grown far more in prior decades than it is now, and Sullivan said overregulation is limiting economic growth. He said he plans to target overregulation in the coming year. He referenced a bill he sponsored and introduced in August called the RED Tape Act, which would require any federal agency to include sunset clauses in any new regulations. It would also direct agencies to review their rules and consider repealing them if they have become obsolete, he said. “It’s not just the latest regulation — it’s also how long things take in Washington,” Sullivan said. “I think a lot of this is self-inflicted. Nobody should want this, because it doesn’t help our economy.” Setting too many hurdles for businesses to jump through limits economic growth, Sullivan said. He cited a statistic from a 2010 Small Business Administration report that federal regulations cost $1.75 trillion as of 2008. Reining in regulatory agencies would help boost economic growth, which Sullivan said will help average Americans as well as the overall economy. He also expressed concerns about the national debt, which is projected to exceed $20 trillion by the end of next year. A federal program that does need growth is the military, Sullivan said. Growing threats from the Islamic State and the possibility of Iranian nuclear capability increase the need for national security in his mind, he said. More recruitment into the armed forces should be a priority, he said. Sullivan, a Marine, said he would continue to push for better treatment of veterans as well. “I am somebody that believes that in many areas, the federal government should be doing less … but in terms of taking care of our veterans, I think our government should be doing more,” Sullivan said. “I know for the veterans, it’s been a frustration. We’re definitely not there yet, but it’s something that I’m working on on a daily basis to get the attention of the senior Veterans Affairs to take better care of our veterans.” Though he has not backed a Republican candidate for the 2016 election yet, with the primary only six weeks away, Sullivan said he had told some of the candidates that he would support them if they came to Alaska to campaign. “I’ve been somebody who’s kept my powder dry,” Sullivan said. “I’ve told them, ‘One thing that would be really helpful for me is if you came up to Alaska to campaign.’” By: Elizabeth Earl Source: Peninsula Clarion
12.18.2015	12.18.15 Senate Unanimously Passes Coast Guard Authorization Bill Bill Strengthens Coast Guard, Protects Alaska’s Fishermen, Transfers Federal Lands to Alaska, Buoys Expansion of Icebreaker Fleet WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, today welcomed unanimous passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act, which included several key provisions vital to Alaskans’ interests. “Today’s unanimous passage of this important legislation demonstrates Congress’s strong commitment to the U.S. Coast Guard, which serves countless Alaskans in every corner of our state,” said Senator Sullivan. “Working with members of the Senate Commerce Committee as well as Senator Lisa Murkowski and Congressman Don Young, I am pleased to have included important provisions for Alaska’s commercial fishermen, the transfer of federal lands back into the hands of Alaskans, and for the expansion of our icebreaker fleet.” Specifically, the Coast Guard Authorization Act includes: The Port Spencer Land Conveyance Act, which conveys land at Point Spencer to the Bering Straits Native Corporation and the State of Alaska for potential infrastructure development. A land conveyance in Tok, which will allow the Tanana Chiefs Conference (TCC) to continue operating the Tok Area Counseling Center, the only behavioral health center in the region. A provision that would reduce the cost of building a new fishing vessel, thereby encouraging new construction by providing a safe alternative to requiring costly certification by classification societies. Language that would pave the way for growing America’s polar icebreaker fleet by allowing the Coast Guard to pay for a polar icebreaker incrementally, rather than requiring full funding in a single year. The bill would also require the Coast Guard to determine the feasibility of refurbishing the icebreaker, “Polar Sea,” which has been laid up since suffering a catastrophic engine failure in 2010. Senator Sullivan also championed the following three amendments that were included in the final bill: The Pribilof Islands Transition Act Amendments of 2015, which would finalize land transfers and conveyances owed to the people of St. Paul under the Fur Seal Act Amendments of 1983 and the Pribilof Transition Act of 2000. Cosponsored an amendment sponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), which extends combat-related special compensation to members of the Coast Guard, commensurate with other branches of the military. Cosponsored an amendment sponsored by Sen. Cantwell (D-WA), which authorizes $4 million in FY 2016, and $10 million FY 2017 for a feasibility study, specification development, and any other pre-acquisition activities necessary for procuring a polar icebreaker. The legislation, which heads to the House of Representatives for passage, authorizes funding to support the mission and needs of the U.S. Coast Guard through 2017. ###
12.18.2015	12.18.15 Sullivan Votes Against 2,200 Page $1.8 Trillion Spending and Tax Reform Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting against H.R. 2029, the Omnibus Appropriations Act, a $1.8 trillion spending and tax reform bill: “This was a difficult vote for me. This 2,200 page $1.8 trillion spending and tax reform bill contains several provisions that I have advocated for, and will continue to press for, that benefit some Alaskans, small business owners, and the energy sector. However, voting in favor of such a massive and consequential piece of legislation, without having had the opportunity to fully understand and vet its positive and negative implications for Alaska and our nation, or offer amendments, is something that I could not do in good conscience. “The way in which we fund our federal government – in this case, 72 hours to read a 2,200 page $1.8 trillion take-it-or-leave-it bill, negotiated behind closed doors by just a few members of Congress and the White House – is broken and not worthy of our great nation nor the people we represent. It is also a principal reason why we have seen such an explosion of trillions of dollars in debt, which this bill adds to, that imperils our nation’s fiscal stability and our children’s future. “Alaskans are currently debating – through a transparent, open, and yes, contentious process – how to best address the state’s very significant fiscal challenges. The federal government should be doing the same. This bill and the process that produced it demonstrates we aren’t. Going forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve this process. That is what Alaskans and the American people deserve.” ###
12.14.2015	12.14.15 Sullivan Reacts to EPA’s Illegal Use of Lobbying and Propaganda to Promote WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today regarding the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) legal decision that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) broke laws when it pushed for public support for the Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) Rule in 2014 and 2015. Specifically, the GAO’s report said that the EPA had unlawfully used taxpayer dollars to use social media for lobbying and propaganda purposes. “The EPA consistently earns it’s moniker as a ‘rogue agency,’ with its persistent disregard for the rule of law,” said Senator Sullivan. “The agency’s Waters of the U.S. Rule – which would give the agency vast new authority over our lands and waters – is a prime example. As we learned today, not only is the substance of the rule an overreach, but the EPA also broke laws in the way that it tried to sell the rule to Congress and the public. Once again, the EPA’s demonstrated that it will go to any lengths to push its extreme environmental agenda.” Read today’s New York Times story on the report here. Here are some quotes from the GAO’s report: “As explained below, we conclude that EPA’s use of Thunderclap constitutes covert propaganda, in violation of the publicity or propaganda prohibition.” “We conclude that EPA violated the anti-lobbying provisions contained in appropriations acts for FY 2015 when it obligated and expended funds in connection with establishing the hyperlinks to the webpages of environmental action groups.” “Because EPA obligated and expended appropriated funds in violation of specific prohibitions, we also conclude that EPA violated the Antideficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. 1341(a)(1)(A), as the agency’s appropriations were not available for these prohibited purposes.” Background: On May 22, 2015, Senators Dan Sullivan and Mike Rounds (R-SD) joined Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-OK) in sending a letter to EPA requesting documents and information about EPA’s use of social media. ###
12.13.2015	12.13.15 Obamacare hurts Alaska most Recently, while home in Anchorage, in the course of two hours, three people in three different places — a gas station, Carr’s and Lowe’s — talked to me about how Obamacare is wiping them out. Hardly a day passes when I don’t hear from or read about Alaskans harmed by Obamacare. One Alaska family tells me they now pay $1,200 per month in premiums with a $10,000 deductible. Another couple pays more than $3,000 per month in premiums, almost $38,000 per year. Here’s an excerpt from a constituent letter: “The renewal paperwork that I just received estimated our new payment to be just over $1,000/month — doubling our monthly expense ... What is a young family to do?” Another: “Insurance rates are killing my small business ... We have tried to keep our employees and their families covered but don’t see how we can continue to.” “Please, please help us!!” an Alaskan wrote to me. Workers and families are suffering. Small businesses are being squeezed. Job creation is stymied. Nearly every promise made by the president and those who voted for the Affordable Care Act has been broken. “If you like your health care plan, you can keep it,” the president told us. “If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor,” he said. The law, he promised, “means more choice, more competition, lower costs for millions of Americans.” He also promised family premiums would be reduced on average by $2,500 per year. Instead, costs are soaring. A bronze plan, the least expensive available, averages $420 per month, with a deductible of $5,653 for an individual and $11,600 for a family. Former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi promised Obamacare would create “4 million jobs — 400,000 jobs almost immediately.” But the Congressional Budget Office projects Obamacare will result in 2 million fewer full-time jobs by 2017, and 2.5 million fewer by 2024. No state has been hurt more than Alaska. Five insurance companies originally offered individual coverage in the exchange. Today, only two are left. Both are increasing premiums by about 40 percent in 2015. In Anchorage, the lowest level bronze plan will rise 46 percent in just one year, making it among the most expensive in the country. Under the plan, a non-smoking 40-year-old not receiving subsidies will pay $579 a month with a $5,750 deductible, or $678 a month with a $5,250 deductible. Despite these crushing costs, Obamacare requires Alaskans to purchase these plans — the first time in U.S. history Congress mandated individual Americans to buy something. Many in Alaska and across the country have chosen to go without coverage, instead paying the expensive yearly fine. Americans are rightfully asking: What’s the point of having health insurance that’s being forced on us if we can’t afford it? Others just forego seeing their doctors. A recent Gallup poll found that in 2014, one in three Americans put off needed medical treatment because of cost. As costs rise, so will that number. For Alaskans, the problems only get worse. The “Cadillac Tax,” which taxes premiums, takes effect in 2018, and will impact an estimated 90 percent of Alaska businesses. A company with 20 covered employees will be required to pay another $28,000 per year in taxes. These extra costs on small businesses will be handed down to their employees in the form of reduced benefits and wages. State and local governments will pay increased taxes. And hard-working Alaskans covered by union plans will also pay more under the Cadillac Tax. One of my campaign promises was to vote to repeal Obamacare, which I did on Thursday. The president has vowed to veto it, claiming the Affordable Care Act is working. United Health, one of the nation’s biggest insurance companies, says that because of losses, it may pull out of Obamacare altogether. Premera, one of the two health insurers left in Alaska, says it can’t continue to sustain losses. For the sake of millions of Americans who have been misled, we can’t afford to wait for Obamacare to self-destruct. Providing affordable health care for all Americans is a very important goal, but Obamacare isn’t even succeeding at that. It’s estimated that 33 million Americans in 2014 still didn’t have coverage. According to the Congressional Budget Office, in 10 years 27 million Americans will still be without insurance. Moreover, a health care program that is economically wiping out middle class families and small businesses is simply not sustainable. It’s imperative that we repeal this law and replace it with one that includes tort reform, enables interstate competition, allows small business the same healthcare tax deductions as big business, is transparent so people know what they are buying and ensures people with pre-existing conditions get covered. There are a number of bills that have been introduced that would enact these solutions. When selling the law to the public, President Obama invoked “The fierce urgency of now.” That’s exactly what I hear when Alaskans write: “What is a young family to do? Please, please help us!!” By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
12.09.2015	12.09.15 Sullivan Supports Major Education Reform Bill Legislation Eliminates Common Core Mandate, Restores Local & State Control WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in support of the Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 (ESSA), which passed the U.S. Senate on a vote of 85-12. This bipartisan bill is the most significant education reform since 2001, and will replace the outdated and ineffective standards that were forced on states under the No Child Left Behind Act. The ESSA removes control of education from the federal government and rightfully returns it back to the states and local communities. “I came to Washington with the goal of taking power and responsibility away from the federal government, and returning it to state and local hands,” said Senator Sullivan. “With overwhelming passage of bipartisan education reform legislation in both the House and Senate – the first in over a decade – we have begun to do that. The ESSA eliminates the federal Common Core mandate, which so many Alaskans have opposed, and prevents the federal government from acting as a national school board. And while this bill isn’t perfect, it restores control of schools back to teachers, local school boards, states, and engaged parents, who are the best educators. Finally, I want to thank Senator Lisa Murkowski for her steadfast commitment to education reform for Alaska and for all the years that she’s worked to make this legislation happen.” ###
12.04.2015	12.04.15 Sullivan Applauds Passage of Long-Term Highway Reauthorization Bill Alaska Priorities Included in Bipartisan FAST Act Headed to President’s Desk WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday evening, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined 82 of his colleagues in passing the bipartisan Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which provides funding for our nation’s surface transportation needs over the next five years. “Passage of a long-term highway bill will provide Alaskans with much-needed certainty in infrastructure investments throughout our state,” Senator Sullivan said. “Building off Congressman Young’s work as a past chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Senator Murkowski’s position on the Surface Transportation Conference Committee, combined with my position on both the Environment and Public Works and Commerce Committees, we were able to secure a number of Alaska-specific provisions that will increase transportation funding for core highway programs, tribal transportation and the ferry system that are so vital to Alaska’s economic future. The bill also includes reforms to our permitting system, which will help cut through project-killing red tape and streamline regulatory burdens. This bill amounts to a big win for Alaska as it will allow us to not only address our infrastructure needs but also promote and sustain economic growth throughout the state.” Funding for Alaska: The FAST Act is a five-year bill that sets funding levels above the baseline in the first year. From there, the bill sets growth of the program at inflation for the following 4 years. The bill maintains the current formula that delivers a high rate of return for Alaska. FAST ACT APPORTIONMENT FOR ALASKA FY16 508,614,600 FY17 519,117,557 FY18 530,336,370 FY19 542,306,359 FY20 555,294,332 Alaska’s FY15 total was $483,955,039. The Tribal Transportation Program: The tribal transportation program has been flat funded at $450 million in recent years. This bill increases funding to $465 million in the first year and grows the program $10 million a year for the following four years of the bill. Ferry Funding: The bill increases funding for the ferry system from $67 million to $80 million a year. This translates into $18.6 million for ferries in Alaska, an increase from $18.2 million in FY15, and an annual increase of $400,000 – $2.0 million total –over the course of the bill. Specific Provisions: PM 2.5 waiver for Congestion Mitigation programs: Provides flexibility for transportation funds under the CMAQ program with respect to the PM2.5 set-aside for states with low population densities. This free up funding to be spent on local priority projects rather than compliance with non-attainment standards. Land Swap in Southeast Alaska: Language clarifies a 2005 statute to ensure the proper exchange of land between Alaska and the United States Forest Service. This effort included 357 easements, 231 marine access points, 126 log transfer facilities, and 19 transportation and utility corridors. The language included in the bill restores the intent of the law and will allow the exchange of all remaining reciprocal easements to continue. Tribal transportation program amendment: Decreases program administrative expenses related to the tribal transportation program from 6% to 5%. Increases the set-aside for high-priority tribal bridges from 2% to 3%. This amendment makes the program more efficient by ensuring funds are being spent on building infrastructure in the program. Rail Safety: Provides funding for Positive Train Control (PTC) infrastructure in order to expedite PTC compliance. Federal Freight Program: The bill creates a new federal Freight Program, and Alaska will receive $80.3 million in funding over the five-year period. Establishes a competitive grant program for nationally significant freight and highway projects for large projects that are difficult to complete with existing funds. The grant program will be funded with total of $4.5 billion over the course of the bill. This includes $800 million for FY16. Grants will be used for highway freight projects, highway or bridge projects, intermodal or rail freight projects, or ports to increase and enhance the flow of freight throughout the country. ###
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Sullivan Lambastes VA Leadership Over Missed Alaska Healthcare Deadline WASHINGTON, DC – At a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing yesterday, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) changed his tone and lambasted the Deputy Secretary and the Undersecretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on the lack of progress on the Alaska Pilot Program for the Veterans Choice Program. After conducting a field hearing and a series of listening sessions throughout Alaska in August – held at the request of Senator Sullivan – the VA announced the pilot program would be fully implemented by mid-November to help fix the problems Alaska veterans were having with the Choice program. But since the announcement, the agreed-upon deadlines for the Alaska Pilot Program have not been met and veterans continue to complain about the implementation of Veterans Choice Program in Alaska. “When are you going to fix the problem in Alaska like you committed to when you were there in August?” Senator Sullivan asked VA Undersecretary Dr. Shulkin. “On behalf on my veterans I'm pissed…By mid-November, it was all going to be done. It's not done." Senator Sullivan continued, “[The VA is] asking for $13-14 billion [from Congress] to fix the Choice Act and can't even fix it in my state where you know it is a freaking disaster…It is a nightmare.” During the hearing, the VA admitted that they had not met their mid-November deadline, despite agreeing to implement the second and final phase of Alaska’s Pilot Program by that time. According to the VA, no staff has been hired and they have yet to even create job descriptions. Dr. Shulkin agreed that the program was taking longer than it should to implement. “It is taking longer than you or I want and you're right to be impatient,” Dr. Shulkin told Senator Sullivan. “I know that the deputy secretary and I have spoken about this. He is committed to it, the secretary [of the VA] is committed to it…You have never deviated from this. We're not deviating from it…I don't want to be giving excuses. I only want to fix the problem in Alaska and we're going to stick at it.” # # #
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Sullivan on Obamacare: “No state has been hurt more by the law than Alaska” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor today, calling on his colleagues to pass the Restoring Americans' Health Care Freedom Reconciliation Act, which would repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as Obamacare. If it passes, it will be the first time a bill to repeal will end up on the president’s desk. During his remarks (available here, with excerpts below), Senator Sullivan talked about how the act was hurting the country, but no place more than in Alaska. “Hardly a day passes—when I’m in D.C. or back home—that I don’t hear or read about Alaskans who have been harmed by Obamacare.” “I recently heard from an Alaskan who pays $1,200 a month in premiums with a $10,000 deductible. I heard from another couple who will be paying $3,131 a month, almost $38,000 a year.” “Here’s an excerpt from a constituent letter: ‘The renewal paperwork that I just received estimated our new payment to be just over $1,000/month - doubling our monthly expense… What is a young family to do?” “Another: ‘Insurance rates are killing my small business…We have tried to keep our employees and their families covered but don’t see how we can continue to.’” “No state has been hurt more by the law than Alaska. Five insurance companies originally offered individual coverage in the exchange, offering a glimmer of hope that competition might drive down costs. Today, only two are left. Both will be increasing premiums by about 40 percent this year alone. In Anchorage, the lowest level plan—a bronze plan—is going up 46 percent in just one year, which makes it among the most expensive in the country. “In Anchorage, a nonsmoking 40-year-old who doesn’t receive subsidies will be forced to pay anywhere from $579 to $678 a month for a bronze plan with a deductible of either $5,250 for the more expensive premium, and $6,850 for the less expensive premium.” “This was not the ‘affordable’ health care that was promised. And we can't let it get worse. That's why I am joining with my colleagues to repeal this law and replace it with one that includes tort reform, preserves a strong safety-net for people with pre-existing conditions, works toward a system where insurance can be bought across state lines, encourages patient-centered care, and allows the kind of doctor-patient relationship that has so distinguished American medical care.” ###
12.02.2015	12.02.15 Sullivan Responds to Senate Democrats’ ANWR Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today responded to legislation introduced by 34 Senate Democrats to designate the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) as Wilderness: “Let me be clear: This bill will never pass this Congress, and those who are offering it know that,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “So why are they doing it? The only explanation is that it must be fundraising season again. But it’s disappointing no matter what the reasoning. In offering this bill, what they’re telling the American people is that they’re not interested in strengthening our country’s national security through domestic energy security. They’re not interested in helping pay down the national debt through the hundreds of billions of dollars that oil production from ANWR is estimated to generate in federal revenue. And they aren’t interested in the tens of thousands of jobs oil production from ANWR would create.” ###
11.23.2015	11.23.15 Alaska Delegation Files Supreme Court Amicus Brief in Support of John Sturgeon Case WASHINGTON, DC – The three members of Alaska’s congressional delegation today filed an amicus curiae brief with the U.S. Supreme Court in support of Alaskan John Sturgeon, who is suing the National Park Service over being forced off the Nation River for using a hovercraft to hunt moose, something that he had been doing for decades. The National Park Service claimed it controlled that stretch of the Nation River because it is part of the Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve. The State of Alaska claims it is theirs to regulate under the Statehood Act. After the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit sided with the Park Service in Sturgeon v. Masica, giving the Park Service expansive rights over state and native land, Sturgeon sought review by the United States Supreme Court. The Supreme Court announced in October that it will hear the case. Oral arguments will take place in January 2016. At issue in the case is who, under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (ANILCA), controls state and Native property located within the outer boundaries of ANILCA Conservation System Units. As the brief indicates, Alaska’s congressional delegation submits that only the State of Alaska and Alaska Native Corporations, and not the federal government, are empowered to make land use decisions on these non-federal lands. A section of ANILCA was carefully written with Alaska sovereignty in mind and clearly prohibits federal control over such lands and waters. The section, 103 (c), states that no lands owned by “the State, Native Corporation, or private party shall be subject to the regulations applicable solely to public lands within” national parks and preserves. The amicus curiae brief was prepared by Jonathan Katchen and Kyle Parker of Crowell & Moring, Anchorage, Alaska on a pro bono basis for the Alaska congressional delegation. “As Alaska’s Attorney General, I worked to rescind the National Park Service regulations that are at issue in this case and I am pleased that the Supreme Court will be hearing it,” Senator Dan Sullivan said. “This case is about who should have the right to make land management decisions over state and Native lands – the owners of the land or the National Park Service. Those who made sure that Section 103 (c), as well as other sections that limited federal control, was included in ANILCA – such as Congressman Don Young – envisioned, presciently, that the federal government would persistently attempt to overreach and expand its authority over Alaska lands. Still, the Park Service has chosen to ignore both the letter and the spirit of the law. The Supreme Court should not allow this to stand. As we Alaskans know, our land is our lifeblood. It’s our economic and spiritual center. The more the federal government takes, the less control we have over our destiny. Put simply: It is time for the Supreme Court to put to an end the federal government’s long history in Alaska of wrongfully seizing power over our lands and resources.” “Today I’m proud to join Senator Dan Sullivan and Congressman Don Young to fight back against the latest chapter in federal overreach: the National Park Service’s prohibition of ordinary navigation on state owned waterways that run near or through ANILCA lands. The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act was a carefully crafted compromise which was supposed to demonstrate that subsistence and sportsman land uses, development and stewardship could co-exist in the north. However, as Senator Ted Stevens noted in 2005, no sooner was the ink dry than the federal government began to go back on its promises,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “This is one of the most recent examples in the 35 year long post-ANILCA struggle to get the federal government to stop treating Alaska as a colony and recognize that we are a sovereign state, admitted to the union on an equal footing with the other 49 states. The federal government’s action also severely undercuts the 1971 Alaska Native land claims settlement. If not overturned, our state and Alaska Native corporations face a real threat of having to ask the federal government for permission to use the lands conveyed to them. The federal government simply needs to stop giving with one hand and taking back with the other.”‎ “The actions of the National Park Service represent a new level of arrogance on the part of the federal government,” said Congressman Don Young. “The intent of the ANILCA was always clear in the minds of Congress and its authors. Mo Udall, Scoop Jackson, Ted Stevens and I all understood the terms of this legislation, which ensured the protection of Alaska’s sovereignty and closed the door to future government encroachment. By ignoring the law and dismissing the intent of Congress, the federal government has once again attempted to expand its authority beyond anything ever imagined. I call upon the Supreme Court to recognize the federal government’s relationship with Alaska as defined by ANILCA, ANCSA, and the Alaska Statehood Act.” Excerpts from the Alaska Congressional Delegation Amicus Curiae Brief: “When courts defer to implausible agency interpretations of statutory language, they are not only allowing the executive branch to increase federal authority unilaterally, they are undermining the separation of powers – the balance so carefully struck in the Constitution – and making it nearly impossible for Congress to effectively limit executive agency authority. That is what has happened in this case.” “[T]he Park Service’s unilateral expansion of its authority over Alaska’s lands not only usurps Congress’ legislative authority in violation of the separation of powers, it also comes at great expense to the State of Alaska. It is time for this Court to put to an end the federal government’s long history of wrongfully seizing power over the State of Alaska’s lands and resources to the detriment of the State’s citizens, such as Mr. Sturgeon.” “Alaska guards the rights conferred under the Statehood Act and views the management of its lands, and access to them, as an essential aspect of its sovereignty which sustains Alaska’s economy, culture, and way of life. Fidelity to the commitments made in the Statehood Act mandate that the State, Alaskans, and Alaska’s congressional delegation must vigorously contest any unwarranted expansion of federal jurisdiction that interferes with the use of and access to Alaska’s lands and resources. After all, the rights granted to the State of Alaska in the Statehood Act cannot –and should not – be unilaterally diminished or abrogated by a federal agency.” “(B)ecause of the Ninth Circuit’s holding, which makes a mockery of ANILCA’s explicit restrictions on the exercise of federal jurisdiction over nonfederal lands, federal agencies now have the power to promulgate regulations that require Native Corporations to secure approval from the federal government before landing a plane, building a lodge, going for a hike, picking berries, altering a camping site, or even hunting and fishing on Native owned lands located within conservation system units. Consequently, the Ninth Circuit’s holding is in direct contravention of the unequivocal commitments made to Native Corporations in ANILCA and ANCSA.” The amicus brief is attached. ###
11.19.2015	11.19.15 Alaska Delegation Responds to FDA Approval of GE Salmon Marks First Ever Approval of GE Animal for Human Consumption Washington, D.C. – After years of pushback from consumers, scientific experts and fishing interests, today the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced the first ever “approval for a genetically engineered animal intended for food, AquAdvantage Salmon.” The Alaska Congressional Delegation, who has consistently fought to keep genetically engineered (GE) fish off the nation’s dinner plates and away from our nation’s oceans, today shared their disappointment in the FDA’s ill-advised decision. “I am livid at the FDA’s announcement to approve genetically engineered ‘salmon’—what seems to be more science experiment than fish or food,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “I have adamantly opposed the approval of GE salmon, both for the health of Americans and the sustainability of our fisheries, but now that the decision has been made, the next step must be to ensure that Americans know what they are consuming. I have introduced both a bill and provision in the appropriations process to mandate the labeling of Frankenfish, and it is more imperative than ever, after this potentially disastrous decision, to make sure they become law.” “I am extremely disappointed in today’s decision by the FDA,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “Genetically Engineered salmon has no business on our dinner plates. I remain committed to ensuring that at minimum, these newly approved Frankenfish are properly labeled so that Americans know exactly where their salmon came from. Wild Alaskan salmon is an abundant, sustainably managed resource, and despite this misguided decision, will continue to be one of the healthiest and tastiest foods in the world.” “This harebrained decision goes to show that our federal agencies are incapable of using commonsense,” said Congressman Don Young. “From the beginning, I’ve said the FDA’s process fails to consider the threats GE fish pose to natural salmon fisheries, including genetic contamination, interbreeding, and direct competition. By embarking on this science experiment, the FDA ignores fundamental risk questions related to our wild fish species and food safety. I will continue to push back against this decision that puts all our wild fisheries at risk. At the bare minimum, we must ensure that GE salmon are labeled so consumers know exactly what they are purchasing and feeding to their families.” In addition to approving AquaBounty Technologies’ application for GE salmon, the FDA issued draft guidance for manufacturers wanting to voluntarily label their products as containing GE or non-GE ingredients. Under this guidance, additional labeling of AquAdvantage Salmon would not be required because the FDA says it found no material difference from its natural counterpart. Manufacturers could voluntarily label their food products as “not genetically engineered” or other variations under the FDA’s guidance. Since 1996, AquaBounty Technologies has been developing GE salmon with the hopes of receiving FDA approval to sell it for human consumption. The specific process splices genetic material from the Chinook (King) salmon with that of a pout fish and Atlantic salmon. The resulting organism, the company claims, would grow to the size of an Alaskan King salmon in a shorter period of time than found in nature. The Alaska Delegation has sponsored and supported numerous pieces of legislation to eliminate the threat of GE fish, including efforts to effectively ban the shipment and sale of such products, and others that would require labeling of GE salmon. To view the full FDA News Release, please go to http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm473249.htm. ###
11.18.2015	11.18.15 Senators Sullivan and Schatz Work To Pass NOAA Sexual Harassment And Assault Prevention Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Senate Commerce Committee unanimously approved S. 2206, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention Act. U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i) introduced the legislation with bipartisan support from U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), John Thune (R-S.D.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.). The bill directs NOAA to develop and adopt policies to protect its employees from sexual harassment and assault, contains provisions which update personnel practices for the NOAA Corps, and reauthorizes funding to maintain the nation’s nautical charts, with an emphasis on the importance of up-to-date survey information for the Arctic. NOAA currently functions under the Department of Commerce’s sexual harassment policy and does not have its own specific procedures in place. This poses problems for the many NOAA employees and contractors who serve at sea or in remote areas. Earlier this year, Dr. Julia O’Hern, a NOAA contractor, wrote about her experiences in the Washington Post as she sought a fair review of her claims of sexual harassment. Without clear procedures, Dr. O’Hern faced challenge after challenge trying to seek justice. Her story can be found here. The legislation approved by the Commerce Committee today would address cases like Dr. O’Hern’s by requiring NOAA to put such policies and procedures in place within one year of enactment. “I was shocked to learn that NOAA lacked their own policies to address sexual assault and harassment,” said Senator Sullivan. “Regrettably, these issues are a problem, and having tailored procedures to respond is essential, particularly for those personnel – many of whom work for NOAA in Alaska – doing important work on ships at sea or in other relatively isolated conditions. This legislation also reauthorizes funding to ensure that we have accurate and up-to-date nautical charts and coastal maps – which is critically important throughout the country, but especially in areas like Alaska – as we continue to move forward with new transportation lanes in the Arctic.” “Geographic isolation—whether on a ship at sea, or at a remote duty post—magnifies the harm from sexual harassment and assault,” said Senator Schatz. “NOAA employees face both. I hope this legislation prevents future incidents, and brings justice for victims.” “The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention Act will bring common sense reforms for the employees of NOAA. I am pleased that the Commerce Committee unanimously passed this legislation,” said Senator Thune. “This is a long overdue move and one that will create an around-the-clock hotline for victims to report incidents of sexual assault and harassment,” said Senator Nelson. “Victims of sexual abuse and harassment should not be forced to endure insufficient reporting and support programs in the midst of recovering from their experiences. This bill ensures that victims have reliable access to advocates who can provide a safe place and needed guidance in a difficult time. I applaud the Senate Commerce Committee for recognizing the need for these important reforms to protect and empower victims of abuse and harassment at NOAA,” said Senator Grassley. “We must do everything we can to prevent sexual assault and harassment, and support the victims of these crimes - no matter who they are, where they live or where they work. This legislation requires NOAA to take steps to prevent sexual harassment and assault and ensure those affected by these crimes are supported at all levels,” said Senator Cantwell. The bill requires NOAA to develop policies to protect its approximately 12,000 employees with measures such as: Clear procedures for reporting incidents, including accommodations for assistance after hours, and for remote and isolated duty posts; Establishment of advocates to assist and support victims through the reporting and adjudication process; Protection for the rights of accusers and the accused, including changes of position and location; and Annual reporting on the status of implementation, and the incidents addressed under the policies. The bill also updates operations and procedures for the NOAA Officer Corps, which is the smallest branch of the nation’s uniformed services. Officers operate ships, fly aircraft, facilitate research projects, conduct diving operations, and serve in key staff positions throughout NOAA. In the event of war, they support U.S. military operations across the globe with their expertise in environmental intelligence and forecasting. Finally, the bill reauthorizes funding to update and maintain the nation’s nautical charts to support both recreational boating and maritime transportation and shipping. These services are particularly important after major storms to re-open ports and get commerce flowing and aid with response efforts. The full text of the legislation can be found here. ###
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Senate Votes to Block EPA Climate Regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate today passed two bipartisan resolutions disapproving of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) climate regulations. “I’m pleased that the Senate affirmed what the American people have been saying about President Obama and the EPA’s national energy tax. The tax has been challenged in court by 27 states, 24 national trade associations, 37 rural electric cooperatives, 10 major companies and 3 labor unions representing 878,000 members. It’s expected to cost hundreds of billions of dollars over the next 15 years, and will force electricity prices even higher for Americans who are already struggling to pay their bills. As a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, I wish to commend Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-OK) for his tireless leadership on this issue, and know that I remain committed to holding the Obama Administration and rogue agencies like the EPA accountable for their actions.” ###
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Sullivan Comments on Statoil’s Withdrawal from Alaska WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement in response to the news that Statoil is closing its Alaska office and pulling out of the state. “This is extremely bad news for our state. When I was Alaska’s Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources, I remember the excitement surrounding the opening of Statoil’s office in Anchorage, just as I remember the excitement surrounding Shell’s Arctic drilling program. At that time, I don’t think that most Alaskans could have imagined that it would be our own federal government that would kill, through over burdensome regulations and uncertainty, the great promise of energy development in the Arctic OCS. As Shell’s CEO put it recently about drilling in Arctic waters off Alaska’s coast, ‘(W)e are of the view that the US government should simplify and modernize the permit processes there, if there is any ambition to develop oil and gas in the offshore of Alaska.’ I’ll keep fighting to modernize our permitting process—both offshore and onshore, where there are still billions of barrels of oil and trillions of feet of natural gas—in order to bring much needed energy security to our country, and economic security to Alaskans.” ###
11.12.2015	11.12.15 Senate OKs Sullivan bill to promote free lawyers for domestic violence, sexual assault victims FAIRBANKS—The U.S. Senate passed a bill Wednesday introduced by Alaska Sen. Dan Sullivan that would encourage lawyers to provide free legal assistance to victims of domestic violence or sexual assault. It is Sullivan’s first standalone bill to pass the Senate. If signed into law, the Pro bono Work to Empower and Represent Act would require U.S. attorneys in all 94 judicial districts across the country to hold at least one event every year promoting pro bono legal work on domestic violence and sexual assault cases. The bill also includes a provision requiring U.S. attorneys offices to hold events every few years with Native American or Alaska Native groups in their districts to address those types of crimes. Co-sponsoring the bill were Sens. Heidi Heitkamp, D-North Dakota, Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa and Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont. The bill passed the Senate in a unanimous vote, Sullivan spokesman Mike Anderson said. In a phone interview Thursday, Sullivan said he had championed such pro bono events in Alaska as state attorney general. The bill would mandate that same idea nationwide, he said. It’s necessary because the demand for affordable or free legal advice for victims of sexual assault and domestic violence far exceeds the supply, Sullivan said. “One of the best ways you can enable victims to break the cycle of violence, in terms of domestic violence and sexual assault, is to get the victim a lawyer,” Sullivan said. “The goal here is to literally have an army of thousands of lawyers throughout the country that do this, and raise awareness, and help to close the gap between what’s needed in terms of services and what’s currently provided.” As a requirement in the legislation, each U.S. attorney’s office would have to file a report with the U.S. attorney general about the events and their effectiveness, and, in turn, the attorney general will have to compile further recommendations for Congress. The bill does not include funding or proposed funding for the events, nor does it require the events geared toward Native Americans and Alaska Natives be held in any particular location, for example in a predominantly Native or rural community. On those issues, Sullivan said he tried to strike a balance between making the provisions mandatory and leaving flexibility for how to pursue the legislation’s goals. In Alaska, the effort to promote pro bono legal work was carried out without requests for funding from the state Legislature, Sullivan said. “This is not a heavy lift in terms of what a U.S. attorney is required to do. I know that from my own personal experience,” Sullivan said. “It was just part of our regular work effort.” Krista Scully, director of the Alaska Bar Association’s pro bono program, said the many Alaska lawyers doing pro bono work have already been busy putting on similar events, including a clinic on civil law at the recent Alaska Federation of Natives convention in Anchorage. Sullivan’s legislation is encouraging, Scully said. “We always think it’s important to shine a bright light on the needs of domestic violence and sexual assault victims, because we know that the intervention of an attorney really makes a difference. It saves lives,” Scully said. Scully said she looks forward to working on more such events. Meantime, she said, the association will hold its annual clinics in Fairbanks, Anchorage and Juneau on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Jan. 18, to provide free legal advice on civil law questions. The Fairbanks clinic will be at the Rabinowitz Courthouse, Scully said. There will also be a phone hotline available, she said. “We know that we have a pretty generous legal community when it comes to pro bono,” Scully said. By: Casey Grove Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
11.12.2015	11.12.15 Senate Passes Sullivan, Heitkamp Bill to Combat Domestic Violence WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) today applauded the Senate’s unanimous passage of their bipartisan bill which they recently introduced, to help combat domestic abuse and sexual violence. The Pro bono Work to Empower and Represent (POWER) Act mandates that each year, the United States Attorney in each judicial district across the country work with domestic violence service providers or coalitions and an area volunteer lawyer project to hold at least one event which promotes pro bono legal services. The purpose is to reinforce a critical way of empowering survivors of domestic violence, engage citizens, and help lift victims out of the cycle of abuse. Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, cosponsored the bill. Also critically important to both Senators is addressing the high rates of domestic and sexual violence among the Native American and Alaska Native populations in their states – so the bill includes a provision requiring many United States Attorney’s offices to work with the Native populations in their judicial district in planning and holding an event every few years with a focus on addressing these crimes in Indian Country and among Native populations. Senators Sullivan and Heitkamp, both former attorneys general of their states, understand how the legal system can help prevent the probability that victims will again be abused, and that a lack of access to legal services is one of the leading obstacles for women with children in getting out of domestic violence situations. “Domestic violence and sexual assault are scourges that we must work to eliminate,” said Senator Sullivan. “One of my priorities as Attorney General for Alaska was to tackle the unacceptably high rates of domestic violence and sexual assault in my state. Among other initiatives, I put on a pro bono workshop that gathered lawyers from all across the state and saw firsthand how effective such efforts can be. I’m grateful that many lawyers in my state continue to provide much-needed legal services to victims on a pro bono basis. And I am grateful to my colleague from North Dakota for joining me on this bill. We were sent to Washington, D.C. to make a difference. This bill will help make a difference.” “Making sure domestic violence victims everywhere, including in Indian Country, have access to affordable legal services could change many lives, and that’s what the bipartisan bill Senator Sullivan and I introduced aims to do,” said Senator Heitkamp. “In tribal communities, rates of victimization are staggering, but far too often, victims aren’t able to pay for legal services to help make changes. In this bill, we require states like North Dakota to focus on support for Indian Country as part of these efforts, as well as all victims of these terrible crimes. As North Dakota’s Attorney General, I was proud to implement the original Violence Against Women Act across the state in the 1990s, and to reauthorize it as a U.S. Senator. No victim should live in the shadows of fear – and with strong action, we can help many victims of domestic violence end their nightmares of abuse.” Approximately 1 in 4 women will experience domestic violence during her lifetime. Many do not get the help and support they need. The National Network to End Domestic Violence estimated that over the course of one day in September 2014, up to 10,000 requests for services, including legal representation, were unmet because of a lack of services. ###
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Sen. Sullivan Lays Wreath at Marine Corps Memorial on 240th Anniversary Washington, DC — Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, today issued the following statement in recognition of the Corps’ 240th Birthday. "Today I was honored to lay the wreath at the Marine Corps War Memorial in Washington alongside Commandant General Robert Neller and many of my fellow Marines and their families,” said Sen. Dan Sullivan. "The title of Marine is my proudest achievement. It always has been and always will be. The Marine Corps symbolizes all that’s good about our country: honor, integrity, grit. But a symbol is only as enduring as the real thing it represents. In this case, real men and women who exemplify excellence and honor, from the Halls of Montezuma, to the shores of Tripoli; from Washington, D.C., to Anchorage, Alaska. As long as our Marines—young and old, on active duty and retired—continue to stand for effectiveness, excellence and being there for our fellow citizens, both on and off the battlefield, we’ll have at least 240 more birthdays to celebrate." Video of the Senator’s remarks at today's wreath laying ceremony is available here. Photos from the wreath laying ceremony are available here. ###
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Sullivan Supports Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) voted in support of H.R. 2029, The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. The bipartisan funding package, which passed the U.S. Senate unanimously, funds military construction projects across the nation, including facilities that support active duty military members and their families. This bill also funds the health care and benefits services and programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “The last thing our veterans need to worry about on Veterans Day is whether their government will fund the services and support they depend on,” said Senator Sullivan. "Today, on the eve of the day that honors those who have sacrificed so much for our freedom, I was pleased to join my colleagues in unanimously passing this critical bill. Our veterans answered the call of our nation, and in return, we have a duty to make good on our promise to care for them. This vote is an important step toward keeping our word and honoring their sacrifice.” Senator Sullivan successfully included two amendments in today’s appropriations bill to help address veteran’s health care issues in rural areas, including the VA’s failed implementation of the Choice Program in Alaska. “I am hopeful that my amendments will help to hold VA officials accountable to the veterans they serve and will begin the process of creating a more responsive and conscientious culture at the VA,” said Senator Sullivan. “These amendments are a small step in helping Alaska’s veterans, and there is still much work to be done on these issues. Alaskans should know that I will continue to hold the VA's feet to the fire until they fix what's gone wrong in Alaska for each and every Alaska veteran. Our nation owes it to them and I am committed to making sure the VA delivers on that debt.” Background on Sullivan Amendments included in H.R. 2029: Veterans Choice Program Report: The VA shall submit a report to Congress on the implementation of the Veterans Choice Program (VCP) in rural areas. Elements of the report should include: An identification of the average wait time to receive care (measured from when a veteran first calls the VA) Utilization rates for health care under the VCP An assessment of veterans’ access to primary and specialty care within VA Medical Centers and VCP The number of Choice providers in each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) Status of any pilot programs created as a result of the VCP, like the recently created Alaska Pilot Program GAO Rural Provider Shortage Report: The GAO shall submit a report to Congress and provide recommendations to improve recruitment and retention of VA medical providers. Elements of the report should include: State-by-state breakdown on the veteran-to-medical provider ratio State-by-state workload analysis of primary and specialty care providers An assessment of initiatives carried out by the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to recruit and retain health care providers of the Department The extent to which VHA oversees its medical providers Recommendations for improving recruitment and retention of health care providers at the VA Furthermore, it is important to note H.R. 2029 also provides Alaska funding for a number of military construction projects, including: $37 million for an F-35A Flight Simulator at Eielson Air Force Base $34 million for the repair and replacement of a boiler at Eielson Air Force Base’s central heat and power plant $7.8 million for a Physical Readiness Training Facility at Fort Greely ###
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Sullivan Applauds Passage of NDAA after “Months of Partisan Politics” Arctic Strategy & OPLAN Provision included in FY16 NDAA WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined 90 of his Senate colleagues in passing S. 1356, the latest version of FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The Act contains all of the major policy provisions passed by the House and Senate earlier this year, but makes minor adjustments to reflect new budget levels established by the Bipartisan Budget Deal of 2015. “Today, after months of partisan politics from the White House and Senate Democrats, even to the point of holding NDAA hostage, I am pleased to see this bipartisan legislation head to the President’s desk for his signature,” Senator Sullivan said. “Remarkably, this critical bill, which will soon be signed, has now passed 54 years in a row. This defense authorization will give our service members what they need to continue keeping this country safe as they counter new threats from ISIL, a resurgent Russia, and an unstable North Korea. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I worked hard on this bill from its inception in the Committee. The NDAA now contains reforms to cut bureaucratic red tape and invest in modernizations which will ensure that our Armed Forces continue to be the most agile and lethal in the world.” Included in this legislation is an amendment from Senator Sullivan responding to the planned downsizing of the 4-25 Airborne Brigade Combat Team currently stationed at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage, AK. As Russia militarizes the Arctic region, Sen. Sullivan’s amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to create a new military strategy to respond to Russia’s provocative actions in the region and to protect U.S. national security interests. Importantly, Sullivan’s amendment requires a description of an Operation Plan (OPLAN) for the protection of United States citizens, territory, freedom of navigation, and economic and trade interests in the Arctic region. Per definition, this OPLAN will compel the Department of Defense to identify what manpower, weapons systems, equipment, and infrastructure the U.S. needs to ensure American-led peace and stability in the Arctic. “Like it or not, the United States is late to the game in the Arctic, and we must take action to correct course,” said Senator Sullivan. “My amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to resource a robust strategy and OPLAN that will assess Russia’s rapid militarization of the Arctic – in order to be fully prepared to counter Russia in that region. And while this amendment is a critical early step, many more steps remain to ensuring a U.S.-led effort to safeguard peace and stability.” Additional Sullivan NDAA Amendments: Supporting the Robust Use and Training of F-35As: This amendment expresses the Sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force should consider strategically significant criteria when basing forward deployed F-35As. These criteria – found in abundance in Alaska – include access to sufficient range capabilities and space for training, the ability to robustly train with our international partners, the presence of existing facilities to support operations, limited encroachment, and the minimization of costs. Requesting Ground-Based Interceptors System Upgrade Report: This amendment requires the Commander of the United States Northern Command to set forth the status of current and planned efforts to improve the homeland ballistic missile defense capability of the United States and the ground infrastructure at Fort Greely. Promoting the Use of FAA-Licensed Spaceports: This amendment highlights the unique importance of spaceports like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska found on Kodiak Island to the national security space program. The Pacific Spaceport Complex – Alaska has supported numerous launches for Air Force Space Command, including various national security launches. Advocating for the Innovative Readiness Training (IRT) Program: This amendment encourages the Department of Defense to continue to utilize the IRT program – which in recent years has been used in Alaska to fund Operation Arctic Care, runway improvements on Kodiak Island, and costal erosion mitigation in Newtok. Other Alaska-Related Provisions in NDAA: F-35: The NDAA also supports the budget request for 57 total F-35 aircraft and includes $5.2 billion to procure 44 F-35As and keep the program on track. The USAF is currently in a public comment period for the Draft-EIS to station the F-35 at Eielson Air Force Base. Missile Defense: Funds $400 million above the Department of Defense’s $8.1 billion budget request for missile defense programs. This funding includes $1.28 billion for the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) element of the Ballistic Missile Defense System. Much of the warfighting capabilities for GMD are located at Fort Greely, Alaska. Missile Defense Sensors: Includes $233.6 million for Missile Defense Sensors and $137.6 million for the Long Range Discriminating Radar (LRDR), which will be located at Clear Air Force Station. Taiwan Invited to RED FLAG-Alaska: The NDAA report states that the conferees “believe that Taiwan should be encouraged to participate in exercises that include realistic air-to-air combat training, including the exercise conducted at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, and Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, commonly referred to as “Red Flag.” Alaska Military Construction: $37 million for a F-35A Flight Simulator at Eielson Air Force Base. $34 million for the repair and replacement of a boiler at Eielson Air Force Base’s central heat and power plant. $7.8 million for a Physical Readiness Training Facility at Fort Greely. ### Press Contact
11.06.2015	11.06.15 Senator Sullivan on President Obama’s Rejection of Keystone: “Poster-child for what’s wrong with America” ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan released the following statement after President Obama rejected the cross-border permit for the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline project: “President Obama’s rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline is the poster-child for what’s wrong with America. We simply don’t build things anymore. Instead of building symbols of technological wonder, national pride, and American ingenuity, we hear story after story of delay, discord, and disappointment, all of which symbolizes a country that can't get things done. Keystone would have provided thousands of good-paying jobs at a time when people need them. In rejecting Keystone, President Obama is rejecting jobs, American workers and a growing economy. Today, President Obama chose to cater to radical environmental groups funded by elites, over hard-working middle-class Americans.” ###
11.04.2015	11.04.15 Sullivan Applauds Passage of Bill to Overturn Harmful WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate passed bipartisan legislation to nullify the Environmental Protection Agency’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. “Today, on behalf of the American people, the U.S. Senate sent a strong message to the Obama Administration that this kind of federal-agency overreach will not be tolerated,” said Senator Sullivan. “The WOTUS rule is a prime example of this Administration’s persistent disregard for the rule of law and yet another attempt to bypass Congress and the American people by granting a rogue agency like the EPA vast new authority over lands across the country, particularly in Alaska, which is home to 60 percent of the nation’s jurisdictional waters. Thirty-one states have filed lawsuits against the rule. Two federal courts have blocked implementation. Hundreds of groups across the country representing hundreds of thousands of Americans—including thousands of Alaskans—have opposed it. The people have spoken. This rule must be overturned.” Last night, Senator Sullivan spoke on the Senate floor about how the Obama Administration is killing projects through regulation and through delay. The WOTUS Rule, he said, “is the latest manifestation of this.” Since arriving to the Senate in January of 2015, Senator Sullivan has worked aggressively, with a bipartisan group of colleagues in pushing back against this federal overreach. February 4th: Senator Sullivan challenged Administrator McCarthy at a joint EPW/House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing on where the EPA derives the legal authority to move forward with the WOTUS rule. April 6th: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a field hearing in Anchorage, Alaska to examine the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. April 8th: Senator Sullivan authored an ep-ed in the Fairbanks Daily News-Miner on WOTUS. April 8th: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a field hearing in Fairbanks, Alaska to examine the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. April 30th: Senator Sullivan joined a bipartisan group of senators, led by Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Pat Roberts (R-KS), in introducing S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, legislation that would force the EPA to withdraw the rule and start over. May 19th: Senator Sullivan chaired an EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife legislative hearing on S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would force the EPA to withdraw the rule and start over. May 22nd: Senator Sullivan in addition to Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-OK) and Mike Rounds (R-SD) sent a letter to EPA Administrator McCarthy to express concerns and demand answers regarding a recent New York Times article that reported that the EPA may have conducted an unprecedented and possibly illegal lobbying and marketing effort on behalf of the controversial WOTUS rule. September 17th: Senator Sullivan joined Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) along with 45 Senate colleagues in co-sponsoring a joint resolution disapproving the WOTUS rule. September 30th: Senator Sullivan chaired an EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife hearing on the “Oversight of the Army Corps of Engineers’ Participation in the Development of the New Regulatory Definition of “Waters of the United States.” ###
10.30.2015	10.30.15 Sullivan to Obama Administration: Where is Your Plan to Lift Anemic Economic Growth Rate? WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after yesterday’s announcement by the Commerce Department that the U.S. economy limped along at only 1.5 percent GDP growth last quarter: “It’s remarkable that quarter after quarter, year after year, the Obama Administration seems to be satisfied with such tepid economic growth, which clearly undermines the future of our country and makes addressing challenges like the deficit and exploding debt all the more difficult. “Where is the President and where is the Secretary of the Treasury in laying out a plan to escape what Washington now calls the ‘new normal’ – sub-2 percent GDP growth? We have to get back to traditional levels of American growth—3 to 4.5 percent—that we have had over the past 100 years. One important way to get there is by reducing the morass of federal red tape and permitting delays that have been stifling American growth, small business startups, infrastructure development and job creation for far too long.” Senator Sullivan has introduced S. 1944, The RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act, a bold step in helping to grow our country’s economy by freezing the growing number of federal regulations promulgated each year. Regulatory compliance and economic costs are estimated to be $1.88 trillion a year. If it were a country, U.S. regulations would be the world’s 10th largest economy, ranking behind Russia and ahead of India. Summary of The RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act: This straight-forward legislation would help rein in the out-of-control regulatory system in the United States. Using a simple one in, one out method, new regulations that cause a financial or administrative burden on businesses or the people of the United States would need to be offset by repealing an existing regulation. Regulations include not only those issued by Executive Order from the President of the United States, but also regulations that are issued by an agency in the form of memorandums, guidance documents, bulletins, and press releases. If an agency wants to issue a new regulation or amend an existing regulation that would create a financial or administrative burden, an agency must repeal one or more existing regulations. If an agency head refuses to offset a new regulation by repealing an existing regulation, cost of living adjustments will be withheld until the agency abides by the law. Twice a year, each agency will be required to publish, through the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions, a list of new, incoming regulations, as well as the existing regulations that are being repealed to comply with the one in, one out law. Incoming and outgoing regulations must be published at the same time and without delay. This one in, one out rule would not apply if an agency is only seeking to repeal a regulation without introducing a new one. ###
10.30.2015	10.30.15 Sullivan Votes Against Debt Limit Deal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, legislation to suspend the federal debt limit until March 2017: “I voted against this bill for a number of reasons. It spends too much on growing federal agencies like the EPA, IRS and the Department of the Interior, and spends too little on our nation’s defense and the brave young men and women who serve in our military. It also does nothing to grow the economy – which grew at an anemic 1.5% rate last quarter. Lastly, the bill is structured such that all spending will be up front, with promised savings in the future. Because of this, it will likely bring our national debt to over $20 trillion in the next two years. All of this puts our kids and grandkids’ futures at risk.” ###
10.27.2015	10.27.15 NEW YORK TIMES: White House Moves to Reassure Allies With South China Sea Patrol, but Quietly WASHINGTON — For months, lawmakers and national security hawks have urged President Obama to stand up to China’s land reclamation of disputed islands in the South China Sea. But now that the Obama administration finally has, the White House does not want to talk about it. In sending a guided missile destroyer late Monday into waters China considers its territory, the Obama administration sought to exercise what officials called the right to freedom of navigation in international waters. The move was meant to reassure allies in Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines that the United States would stand up to China’s efforts to unilaterally change facts on the ground by building up artificial islands in the Spratly Islands chain. But even as it was authorizing the naval patrol, which China promptly called a “deliberate provocation,” the White House tried to play down the episode, anxious to avoid escalating a conflict between the nations, a pair of adversarial Pacific behemoths. The White House directed Department of Defense officials not to say anything publicly about the episode. No formal announcements or news releases alerting the media to the passage of the destroyer, the Lassen, were to go out, White House officials ordered. And if asked, officials were instructed not to speak on the record about the maneuver, administration officials said. As a result, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter was left flailing during a scheduled appearance before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday, just hours after the Lassen left territorial waters near Subi Reef, one of several artificial islands that China has built in the disputed Spratly Islands chain. Senator Dan Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, told Mr. Carter he had initially planned to “express concern” about American “inaction” in combating Beijing in the South China Sea, but changed his mind after hearing that the Navy warship had entered the 12-nautical-mile zone claimed by China. “Is that true? Did we do that?” Mr. Sullivan asked. Mr. Carter demurred. “We have said and we are acting on the basis of saying that we will fly, sail and operate wherever international law permits — — ” Mr. Sullivan interrupted him. “Did we send a destroyer yesterday inside the 12-mile zone?” Again, Mr. Carter sidestepped the question, and the two men went back and forth a few more times. The exchange prompted Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, to express exasperation. “Why would you not confirm or deny that that happened?” Finally Mr. Carter acknowledged the episode. “I don’t like in general the idea of talking about our military operations,” he said. “But what you read in the newspaper is accurate.” It was an extraordinary exchange considering the Pentagon had just hours before quietly informed reporters of the naval movement. “This move seems to have been carefully planned and well executed to mitigate as much risk as possible,” said Derek Chollet, a former assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs. He said the administration might have just wanted to “let our actions do the talking for us.” In fact, Mr. Carter was simply following White House orders, administration officials said. “Look, we don’t want to make this a bigger deal than it already is,” a senior administration official said Tuesday, speaking on the grounds of anonymity. China accused the United States of committing a “deliberate provocation” by sending the destroyer into waters it claims as its own. “China will firmly react to this deliberate provocation,” Lu Kang, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said at a regularly scheduled news conference on Tuesday. Chinese authorities summoned the American ambassador, Max Baucus, to the Foreign Ministry on Tuesday evening and told him that the United States should stop “threatening Chinese sovereignty and security interests,” the national broadcaster CCTV said. The Chinese Defense Ministry said Tuesday night that two Chinese vessels — a missile destroyer, the Lanzhou, and a patrol boat, the Taizhou — had warned the American warship to leave the disputed waters. Beijing’s response, though heated, essentially repeated language it has used in the past about its sovereignty over the South China Sea. The Pentagon said that the Lassen stayed within the 12-nautical-mile border of the Spratly Islands chain for less than an hour, and that American surveillance equipment recorded images. The Spratly archipelago is closer to the Philippines than to China. Satellite images show that China has built Subi Reef into an island, using huge dredging equipment, and that it has started constructing a runway capable of accommodating military aircraft. It has completed another such runway in the Spratlys, on Fiery Cross Reef, and is working on a third. The artificial islands built by China, and the broader issue of its claims over islands and small reefs in nearly 90 percent of the strategically important South China Sea, are among the most contentious issues between Washington and Beijing. The Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all dispute China’s claims to the Spratly Islands. The naval maneuver came a month after China’s president, Xi Jinping, and President Obama met in Washington and failed to reach an agreement on China’s claims. Mr. Xi said at a news conference during his Washington visit that China had no intention of militarizing islands in the South China Sea, but he did not expand on that pledge during his private talks with Mr. Obama, administration officials said. Officials had said before the Lassen’s mission that one purpose of such a patrol would be to test Mr. Xi’s words. The Lassen operation was intended to show that the United States does not agree that China can prevent American ships from entering a 12-nautical-mile zone that Beijing is claiming around the artificial islands. The Pentagon apparently chose Subi Reef, which is known as a low-tide elevation, with great care, said Andrew S. Erickson, associate professor at the China Maritime Studies Institute at the United States Naval War College in Rhode Island. Under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, a low-tide elevation — one naturally submerged at high tide — is not entitled to a 12-nautical-mile territorial limit, Mr. Erickson said. Beyond a 500-meter safety zone, foreign ships and aircraft are free to operate without consultation or permission, he said. At the Foreign Ministry on Tuesday, Mr. Lu, the spokesman, said that China had sovereignty over the Spratly chain, and hence claimed the 12-nautical-mile zone. “China has indisputable sovereignty of the Nansha Islands and adjacent waters,” Mr. Lu said, using China’s name for the Spratlys. He said that China was building in the South China Sea for the “public good. Referring to the United States, Mr. Lu said, “If the relevant party keeps stirring things up, it will be necessary for China to speed up its construction activities.” The Lassen’s patrol came a week before the head of the United States Pacific Command, Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., is scheduled to hold talks in Beijing with senior Chinese military officials. Admiral Harris, who has criticized China for moving “walls of sand” to create the artificial islands, has been an outspoken proponent of freedom-of-navigation patrols and has warned that the United States will conduct such forays whenever it sees fit. By: Helene Cooper and Jane Perlez Source: The New York Times
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Senate Passes Legislation to Combat Pirate Fishing WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Senate last night unanimously passed the Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing Enforcement Act of 2015. In May, Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Brian Schatz (D-HI) introduced legislation to combat the multi-billion dollar threat posed by illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing activities. The legislation is the House companion to the Senate bill, which passed the House of Representatives in July. The bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The bill increases enforcement capabilities for a number of international fishery agreements that combat IUU fishing, to protect fisheries in both Alaska and Hawai‘i, and across the entire United States. “By cracking down on the illegal harvesting of fish, we are leveling the playing field and protecting the livelihoods of the 80,000 Alaskans who are directly or indirectly impacted by our seafood industry,” said Senator Murkowski, Co-chair of the Senate Oceans Caucus. “I thank my colleagues for recognizing the serious economic threat posed by pirate fishing and taking this critical step to ensure our fisheries remain healthy and thriving.” “After years of effort – dating back multiple Congresses – I am proud to have gotten this bill moving early in my tenure on the Commerce Committee, and I am pleased to have had the cooperation of my friends and colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this important legislation into law,” said Senator Sullivan. “Illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing is a global problem and this legislation will increase and streamline enforcement tools and assist the Coast Guard and NOAA in curbing this criminal activity that threatens our domestic fishermen by endangering the health of our fisheries resources and distorting our markets.” “Currently, the world looks to the United States for leadership on how to manage fisheries,” said Senator Schatz. “With this bill, we can assume a similar leadership role on the international problem of pirate fishing by taking strong action to prosecute wrongdoers. Hopefully other nations will follow our example to put an end to illegal fishing practices once and for all.” “Pirate fishing puts fishermen and processors who play by the rules at a disadvantage. It's a local problem,” said Senator Whitehouse, Co-chair of the Senate Oceans Caucus, “because pirate fishing in foreign countries and on the high seas jeopardizes migratory fish stocks that our fishermen rely on, and pirate fishing brings down the prices we get. This legislation will help American fishermen by holding foreign governments accountable to enforce rules against illegal fishing.” Each year illegal fishing produces between 11 and 26 million tons of seafood, resulting in economic losses with a global value of between $10 and $23 billion. IUU fishing for crab in Russia has had an adverse impact on Alaska crab fishermen by disrupting the market and lowering prices, and it is threatening the sustainability of the bigeye tuna that is the staple of Hawai‘i’s longline fishery. Last year, the Senate approved two treaties that protect Pacific fisheries used by Alaska and Hawai‘i by cutting down on IUU crimes.
10.21.2015	10.21.15 Alaska Delegation Continues to Promote Strategic Buildup of Interior Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – The Alaska Congressional Delegation today welcomed news from the Missile Defense Agency that they have awarded a $784,289,883 contract to Lockheed Martin to build the Long Range Discrimination Radar (LRDR). The contract specifies that the work is to be done at Clear Air Force Station, Alaska as well as Lockheed Martin’s facility in New Jersey. The LRDR is a critical MDA project which will substantially improve our nation's Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) capabilities. The LRDR will provide persistent coverage and improve discrimination capabilities against threats to the homeland from the Pacific theater. Over the next five years, Alaska can expect to see approximately $285 million dollars in military construction to build the LRDR. “The ballistic missile threat to our country is real and it is rapidly growing,” said the Alaska Congressional Delegation. “A recent Johns Hopkins University report stated that by 2020, North Korea could have as many as 100 nuclear weapons. Today’s news to award the LRDR is a vital step toward advancing our nation’s missile defense program and it once again highlights how strategic Alaska’s location really is.” In addition to the LRDR announcement, the Alaska Congressional Delegation recently submitted comments to the U.S. Air Force at the close of their public comment period supporting the proposed alternative for the F-35A Operational Beddown-Pacific at Eielson Air Force Base. In March of this year, the U.S. Air Force announced its initiation of the EIS process. “In an effort to support the U.S Air Force’s Strategic Basing of the OCONUS F-35A in Alaska, provisions were included in both the House and Senate-passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. These provisions expressed the Sense of Congress that Secretary of the Air Force should consider strategically significant criteria when basing the OCONUS F-35A,” the delegation wrote. “Recent events have also reinforced Alaska’s strategic importance. In Cold War-like fashion, Russia has dramatically increased its arctic-based military presence, creating a new Northern Command, reopening numerous former Soviet air and sea bases, building new ice breakers, and forming four new combat brigades in the Arctic. In fact, according to testimony given earlier this year by Admiral William Gortney, commander of U.S. Northern Command, ‘Russian heavy bombers flew more out-of-area patrols in 2014 than in any year since the Cold War,’” the letter stated. The delegation concluded, “The decision to base two squadrons of F-35A JSFs at Eielson AFB is a win-win-win. A win for national security; a win for Interior Alaska. And it is a win for our airmen who will have the opportunity to work and train in the best military community in all of the United States.” The Final draft of the EIS is expected to be distributed in late January of 2016, and the final record of decision is expected during the Spring of 2016. The full letter can be viewed here: /download/alaska_codel_f35_eis_letter
10.14.2015	10.14.15 Sullivan Testifies In Support of Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recently testified before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests and Mining in support of S. 1955, the Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act. The legislation, introduced by Senator Sullivan and co-sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski, would allow approximately 2,800 Alaska Natives who served in Vietnam, and missed an earlier opportunity because of that service, to apply for their government-promised Native allotments of land. “This bill seeks to cure an injustice,” Senator Sullivan told the Committee. “It’s about equity for the men and women who left their families and friends and their state and home to serve their nation during one of the most controversial conflicts our nation has known… We as a nation should honor our prior promises, especially to those who wear the uniform.” S. 1955, the Alaska Native Veterans Allotment Equity Act, has been referred to the full Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Alaskan Congressman Don Young has introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives. ###
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Bipartisan Tsunami Bill Unanimously Passes Senate, Strengthens Coastal Disaster Preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Brian Schatz (D-HI) announced their tsunami detection and warning systems legislation unanimously passed the Senate. The bill reauthorizes and enhances tsunami preparedness and increases investment in research to protect coastal communities. The Tsunami Warning, Education and Research Act of 2015 would strengthen the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) tsunami warning system and advance new research related to improving tsunami detection, forecasting, notification and response. “In the tradition of Senators Ted Stevens and Dan Inouye, I am pleased to see this bill unanimously pass the Senate,” said Sen. Sullivan. “In the event of the next tsunami, adequate warning for Alaska’s coastal communities is essential. This legislation will ensure that important monitoring centers, vital research advancements and community based mitigation programs continue in a cost effective manner.” “With more than 300,000 Washingtonians living along the Cascadia fault in a tsunami danger zone, we must prepare our coastal communities. This legislation improves our emergency warning infrastructure, provides funding to our state-based emergency management programs, and bolsters readiness assessments for coastal areas at-risk,” said Sen. Cantwell. "The earthquake in Chile earlier this month showed the strength of NOAA's tsunami network. NOAA’s quick response to identify a minimal risk to Hawaii avoided the costs and panic of an unnecessary evacuation. The bill we passed today lays the foundation for even higher standards for NOAA’s warning products so that coastal communities can better prepare for the specific impacts they are likely to face on their harbors and ports, downtown districts, and evacuation routes,” said Sen. Schatz. The Tsunami Warning, Education and Research Act of 2015 would: Advance new research related to improving tsunami detection, forecasting, notification and response; Enhance tsunami preparedness for ports and harbors by directing the National Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Program and the U.S. Coast Guard to evaluate and recommend procedures for communication and response plans; Ensure supercomputing resources are available for tsunami forecast models and that guidelines and metrics for evaluating and improving tsunami models are disseminated; Direct NOAA, the National Guard and the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a readiness assessment for areas at-risk for a near-shore tsunami such as the Cascadia fault; Require tsunami warning centers to work with local weather forecasting offices to ensure timely and accurate delivery of warnings.
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Sullivan Statement on Nationwide Stay of EPA’s WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works’ Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, released the following statement regarding the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals decision to issue a nationwide stay on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) flawed Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “I’m grateful that the court has halted this over-reaching jurisdictional expansion – known as the Waters of the U.S. rule,” said Senator Sullivan. “This rule is a prime example of this Administration’s persistent disregard for the rule of law and yet another attempt to bypass Congress and the American people by granting the EPA vast new authority over lands across the country, particularly in Alaska, which is home to 60 percent of the nation’s jurisdictional waters.” On August 27, 2015, a United States District Court Judge in North Dakota delayed implementation of the EPA’s expanded WOTUS rule for Alaska and 12 other states until ongoing litigation is fully decided. Since arriving to the Senate in January of 2015, Senator Sullivan has worked aggressively, with a bipartisan group of colleagues in pushing back against this federal overreach. February 4th: Senator Sullivan challenged Administrator McCarthy at a joint EPW/House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing on where the EPA derives the legal authority to move forward with the WOTUS rule. April 6th: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a field hearing in Anchorage, Alaska to examine the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. April 8th: Senator Sullivan authors an ep-ed in the Fairbanks Daily News Miner on WOTUS. April 8th: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a field hearing in Fairbanks, Alaska to examine the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. April 30th: Senator Sullivan joined a bipartisan group of Senators, led by Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Joe Donnelly (D-ID), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Pat Roberts (R-KS), in introducing S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, legislation that would force the EPA to withdraw the rule and start over. May 19th: Senator Sullivan chaired an EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife legislative hearing on S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would force the EPA to withdraw the rule and start over. May 22nd: Senator Sullivan in addition to Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-OK) and Mike Rounds (R-SD) sent a letter to EPA Administrator McCarthy to express concerns and demand answers regarding a recent New York Times article that reported that the EPA may have conducted an unprecedented, and possibly illegal lobbying and marketing effort on behalf of the controversial WOTUS rule. September 17th: Senator Sullivan joins Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) along with 45 Senate colleagues in co-sponsors in introducing a joint resolution disapproving the WOTUS rule. September 30th: Senator Sullivan chaired an EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife hearing on the “Oversight of the Army Corps of Engineers’ Participation in the Development of the New Regulatory Definition of “Waters of the United States.”
10.07.2015	10.07.15 Sullivan Applauds Senate Passage of NDAA Conference Report WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. Senate passed the conference report for the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, successfully included an amendment in the final NDAA Conference Report that aims to respond to the plan to downsize the 4-25 Airborne Brigade Combat Team currently stationed at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage, AK. As Russia militarizes the Arctic Region, Sen. Sullivan’s amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to create a new military strategy to respond to Russia’s provocative actions in the region and to protect U.S. national security interests. Importantly, Sullivan’s amendment requires a description of an Operation Plan (OPLAN) for the protection of United States citizens, territory, freedom of navigation, and economic and trade interests in Arctic region. Per definition, this OPLAN will compel the Department of Defense to identify what manpower, weapons systems, equipment, and infrastructure the U.S. needs to ensure American-led peace and stability in the Arctic region. “While Russia’s increasingly aggressive actions in Western Europe make headlines, their moves in the Far East and Arctic High North have not gone unnoticed by the U.S. military in my state,” said Senator Sullivan. “The United States is an Arctic nation because of Alaska and my amendment ensures that the U.S. will have a comprehensive and proactive Arctic strategy to project positive American influence into the region. Much of this power projection has its roots in Alaska – from the 4-25 ABCT and the F-22s at JBER, to the Strykers at Ft. Wainwright and missile defense assets at Ft. Greely and Clear Air Force Station. “However, as stated by the Secretary of Defense, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, and numerous other senior leaders, we are painfully late to the Arctic. My amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to resource a strategy that will assess and be prepared to fully counter the current threats in the Arctic. And while this amendment is a critical early step, many more steps remain to ensuring a U.S.-led effort to safeguard peace and stability for all nations in the region.” After the vote, Senator Sullivan addressed President Obama’s veto threat: “This year’s bipartisan NDAA would be the 54th consecutive NDAA passed the Congress and signed into law. I am dumfounded at the President’s threat to veto the defense authorization. He just spent time in Alaska, landed at JBER and met with some of our service members, and now he wants to veto the bill that provides for those very people. He’s asked the Congress for more defense spending this year to counter the increasingly complex and diverse array of threats in the world, and in the same breath he issues veto threats. To govern is to prioritize and if the President vetoes this bill, he'll be telling the American public and our men and women in uniform that neither they, nor the security of our country, are his priorities. ” Additional Sullivan NDAA Amendments: Supporting the Robust Use and Training of F-35As: This amendment expresses the Sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force should consider strategically significant criteria when basing forward deployed F-35As. These criteria – found in abundance in Alaska – include access to sufficient range capabilities and space for training, the ability to robustly train with our international partners, the presence of existing facilities to support operations, limited encroachment, and the minimization of costs. Requesting Ground-Based Interceptors System Upgrade Report: This amendment requires the Commander of the United States Northern Command to set forth the status of current and planned efforts to improve the homeland ballistic missile defense capability of the United States and the ground infrastructure at Fort Greely. Promoting the Use of FAA-Licensed Spaceports: This amendment highlights the unique importance of spaceports like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska found on Kodiak Island to the national security space program. The Pacific Spaceport Complex – Alaska has supported numerous launches for Air Force Space Command, including various national security launches. Advocating for the Innovative Readiness Training (IRT) Program: This amendment encourages the Department of Defense to continue to utilize the IRT program – which in recent years has been used in Alaska to fund Operation Arctic Care, runway improvements on Kodiak Island, and costal erosion mitigation in Newtok. Other Alaska-Related Provisions in NDAA: F-35: The NDAA also supports the budget request for 57 total F-35 aircraft and includes $5.2 billion to procure 44 F-35As and keep the program on track. The USAF is currently in a public comment period for the Draft-EIS to station the F-35 at Eielson Air Force Base. Missile Defense: Funds $400 million above the Department of Defense’s $8.1 billion budget request for missile defense programs. This funding includes $1.28 billion for the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) element of the Ballistic Missile Defense System. Much of the warfighting capabilities for GMD are located at Fort Greely, Alaska. Missile Defense Sensors: Includes $233.6 million for Missile Defense Sensors and $137.6 million for the Long Range Discriminating Radar (LRDR), which will be located at Clear Air Force Station. Taiwan Invite to RED FLAG-Alaska: The NDAA report states that the conferees “believe that Taiwan should be encouraged to participate in exercises that include realistic air-to-air combat training, including the exercise conducted at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, and Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, commonly referred to as “Red Flag.” COBRA DANE Report: The NDAA report states, “the conferees direct the Commander of U.S. Northern Command, jointly with the Commander of U.S. Air Force Space Command, the Director, Missile Defense Agency, and the Director of National Intelligence, to provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees not later than April 1, 2016 concerning the plan for the Cobra Dane radar capability at Shemya, Alaska, including the military requirements it currently serves and whether those requirements will continue to require a material capability solution, including those requirements not related to missile defense; and any sustainment and modernization decision timelines and costs. Alaska Military Construction: $37 million for a F-35A Flight Simulator at Eielson Air Force Base. $34 million for the repair and replacement of a boiler at Eielson Air Force Base’s central heat and power plant. $7.8 million for a Physical Readiness Training Facility at Fort Greely.
10.07.2015	10.07.15 VA Announces Pilot Program to Help Fix Alaska’s Broken VA Health Care System WASHINGTON, DC – At a Senate Veterans Affairs Committee hearing on pending health care and benefits legislation, Dr. Thomas Lynch, Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health Clinical Operations, announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will be creating a new pilot program in Alaska to address the failed implementation of the Veterans Choice Program in the state. The announcement of an Alaska VA pilot program follows a Veterans’ Affairs Committee field hearing held by Senator Sullivan in Alaska in August. This hearing was attended by Dr. David Shulkin, the VA Undersecretary of Health – and Dr. Lynch – both at the request of Senator Sullivan. Dr. Shulkin and Dr. Lynch heard directly from numerous Alaska veterans who were no longer able to get the healthcare they had earned because of implementation failures within the Veterans Choice Program. During the hearing on Capitol Hill, Senator Sullivan read from written comments submitted by Alaskans following the field hearing and pressed the VA to consider the unique needs of Alaska’s veteran population. (Click here to view Sen. Sullivan’s remarks at Senate VA hearing) Dr. Lynch said that this new Alaska Pilot Program will attempt to fix Alaska’s problem, in part, by putting the scheduling of appointments back into the hands of Alaskans. According to Dr. Lynch, Phase One of this program – which involves a virtual presence in Alaska – is already in place and Phase Two, which involves additional employees and resources in the Alaska VA, will completed by mid-November of this year. “I am pleased that after hearing from upset veterans across Alaska, the VA is finally working to tailor the ‘one-size-fits-none’ Veterans Choice Program to fit unique needs of Alaska’s veterans,” Senator Sullivan said after the hearing. “Importantly, that fix begins with giving Alaskans more local control over the Veterans Choice Program. There is still much work to be done on this issue and Alaskans should know that I will continue to hold the VA's feet to fire until they fix what's gone wrong in Alaska for each and every Alaskan veteran. Our nation owes it to them and I am committed to making sure the VA delivers on that debt.”
09.28.2015	09.28.15 Sullivan Reacts to Shell Arctic OCS Announcement WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after Shell’s announcement that it is abandoning its Arctic drilling program, citing high costs and the “challenging and unpredictable federal regulatory environment.” Senator Sullivan said: “Shell’s announcement is being cheered by environmental groups, but it’s a very sad day for Alaska and for working Alaskans and Americans across the country. From the beginning, through unprecedented regulatory hurdles and delays, the Obama administration and its environmental allies have created the conditions for Shell to abandon its Arctic drilling program. And they succeeded. Shell spent seven years and $7 billion trying to drill a single well in America’s Arctic, where hundreds of exploratory wells have been successfully drilled. Under such circumstances it would be extremely difficult for any company to move forward. “Now, countless jobs will be lost, American’s energy security will be diminished, and the Arctic environment will be degraded with the least environmentally responsible countries leading development. Make no mistake: Countries like Russia and China will continue to develop the Arctic’s natural resources, but will do so with little regard for the environment. “The Obama administration hit the trifecta: killing jobs, undermining energy security, and degrading the environment. Now more than ever we must work to create an efficient, timely and certain regulatory regime for the United States that helps create jobs, energy, and infrastructure, and promotes partnership with the private sector to grow the economy. As Alaskans, we must start weighing each and every regulatory and policy decision as if our economic future depends on it – because it does.”
09.18.2015	09.18.15 Senator Continues to Drive Timeline On Fixing Alaska’s Broken VA System WASHINGTON, DC – At a recent Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing, committee member Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) continued to press the Veterans Administration (VA) on the importance of immediately fixing the implementation of the Choice Act, which has resulted in a broken VA healthcare program in Alaska. At the hearing, Thomas Lynch, the VA's assistant deputy under-secretary for Health Clinical Operations, gave assurances that the VA was working to fix the problems and committed to moving up the timeline to do so. Senator Sullivan said that the problems demanded “urgent actions.” Dr. Lynch also said that VA was committed to continue honoring agreements that the VA has with Alaska Native healthcare entities, something that the VA had not committed to earlier this summer. “There is no question that we will continue to honor those agreements,” Dr. Lynch told Senator Sullivan. As a response to the long wait-time scandals at the Phoenix Veterans Affairs facility, the Choice Act was signed into law in 2014. However, due to Alaska’s unique needs, the program is not delivering on the promise of improving access to care for Alaska’s veterans. Senator Sullivan’s offices have received numerous complaints about the program from Alaska veterans. The hearing on Wednesday followed well-attended listening sessions and a Veterans’ Affairs field hearing held by Senator Sullivan in Alaska in August. Those listening sessions and the hearing were attended by Dr. David Shulkin, the VA Undersecretary of Health, who also agreed to ensure that the VA honors agreements with Alaska Native healthcare organizations, and to ensure that the Alaska VA staff have a greater role in implementation. “As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I will use my position on the Committee to do everything in my power to ensure that our veterans continue to get the healthcare that they were promised and have earned,” Senator Sullivan said. “I’m grateful that the VA appears to be taking this issue seriously and is working to find solutions. However, I implored them to move quickly. Alaska’s veterans have already been waiting too long. They need solutions and they need them yesterday.”
09.18.2015	09.18.15 ICYMI: Sullivan Highlights Obama Administration’s Contradictory Policies in South China Sea WASHINGTON, DC – During a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing yesterday, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) continued to highlight the Obama administration’s conflicting and confused policies in the South China Sea, where China has been feverishly building islands by piling sand onto reefs in disputed territory. According to Ambassador David Shear, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs, “China has now reclaimed more than 2,900 acres, amounting to 17 times more land in 20 months than the other claimants combined over the past 40 years.” This area represents nearly 2,200 football fields worth of land that was once below the ocean. During his questioning, Senator Sullivan pointed to the mixed messaging from the PACOM Commander Harry Harris and Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter on whether or not our actions reflect our rhetoric on the official recognition of these islands. Secretary Carter recently stated on separate occasions that “the United States will fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows,” and “turning an underwater rock into an airfield simply does not afford the rights of sovereignty or permit restrictions on international air or maritime transit.” However, by not conducting operations near the formations, it appears that the United States is de-facto recognizing China’s claims. “Admiral Harris, should we sail or fly inside the 12-mile area with regard to the islands as Secretary Carter stated we should? What about that one?” Senate Sullivan pressed, pointing to a poster of a nearly 10,000 foot runway the Chinese constructed on the reclaimed Fiery Cross Reef. Admiral Harris responded, “That one, yes. We should -- we should be able to fly.” However, earlier in the hearing, Senator John McCain discovered that the U.S. had not “conducted a freedom of navigation operation within 12 nautical miles” since 2012. “I think when the secretary of defense makes a definitive statement like that at a very important meeting of defense ministers in Asia, and then we don't follow up on it, it undermines our credibility, and that's something that we can't afford anymore,” responded Senator Sullivan. “Our credibility is undermined everywhere in the world, and we [can’t afford] it here.”
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Alaska Senators Co-Sponsor Legislation to Repeal “Cadillac Tax” WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Alaska Senators Dan Sullivan and Lisa Murkowski joined Senators Dean Heller (R-NV) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) in introducing S. 2045, the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation will fully repeal tax provisions on high-cost insurance plans in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) known as the “Cadillac Tax”. Beginning in 2018, the “Cadillac Tax” would tax employers whose health insurance plans cost more than $10,200 a year for individuals and $27,450 a year for families at 40 percent of the cost above those limits. “I have opposed the Affordable Care Act from day one, because the numbers simply don’t pencil out for Alaska—a sparsely populated state with limited providers. The ‘Cadillac Tax’ is yet another example of major flaws within the ACA that prove this health care law is far from affordable,” said Senator Murkowski. “Alaskans have already been feeling the pinch from rising health care costs, and this tax would place yet another financial burden on Alaskans that I’m just not willing to accept. This mislabeled ‘Cadillac Tax’ will have drastic impacts in our state and across the country, and I’m happy to support legislation that would repeal it.” “This legislation will repeal one of the many provisions found within ObamaCare – the ‘Cadillac Tax’ – which if implemented, will be a catastrophe for Alaskans who rely on employer-based health care,” said Senator Sullivan. “Beginning in 2018, this tax will hit Alaskans harder than people in any other state, and will only place additional hardships on Alaskans by making healthcare more expensive and inaccessible. Today, I am pleased to join a bipartisan group of senators to repeal this tax and look forward to working on patient-centered, market-based healthcare reforms.”
08.31.2015	08.31.15 Sullivan brings Washington to vets An idea that started in Alaska to provide better care by the Veterans Administration for vets known as the Veterans Access, Choice & Accountability Act seems to have backfired for Alaskan vets according to freshman U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R) Alaska. “Ultimately this was about bringing Washington D.C. to Alaska,” Sullivan told the Dispatch in an interview before the Kenai hearing. “To have some of the senior VA officials here in Alaska. The Secretary of the VA was here two weeks ago and tonight we have the number 3 official at the VA Dr. David Shulkin here to hear about a huge problem that has manifested itself in the state this summer with the implementation of what’s called the Choice Act, which has been nothing less than a fiasco in Alaska. Dr. Shulkin is new and went through his confirmation hearing in the Veterans Affairs Committee in the Senate, a committee where I sit and when he came up for a vote I put a hold on his confirmation until he gave me a commitment that he would come to Alaska within his first six weeks after being confirmed with a plan to fix the problem with the implementation of the Choice Act. We wanted to have some listening sessions so he could hear first-hand from the men and women who have served our country what their experiences have been and what their challenges have been as well as their ideas for fixing the problem. This morning we were in Fairbanks, we’re here in Kenai with a teleconference line to Dillingham and tomorrow we’ll have an official U.S. Senate VA Committee hearing in Eagle River which will become part of the official record. It’s a big deal to have an official hearing hear rather than in D.C. where Alaskans have to travel there to be heard,” said Sullivan. Sullivan said the act was actually limiting flexibility that veterans need to receive health care and he was backed up by a majority of the testimony of veterans who mocked it call it the “No Choice” program. “The irony is the Choice Act took a lot of ideas from Alaska and put it into law then when they implemented it they did a one size fits all approach regarding funding and a lot of our innovations and flexibility was lost in the implementation of the Choice Act, which has been a great frustration and this blitz of sessions is to be sure the VA officials at the highest level not only understand the problem but see firsthand the frustration of these patriots. It’s one thing for a senior official in Washington to get a briefing and read a paper, it’s another thing to have them hear from a purple heart recipient who is not getting the services for the sacred trust that the federal government owes them,” said Sullivan. As one by one those vets came to testify and tell of their challenges at the hearing Dr. Shulkin not only listened, but took immediate action assigning a staff person to work with the individual right there as the hearing continued for more than two hours. “I’m new, I may not have caused the problems,” said Shulkin, “But I own them now. The solution to the Choice program will be found through collaboration between the VA, Congress and the programs third party administrators.” A plan for addressing the issues in Alaska will be presented to Congress by Nov. 1st according to Shulkin. Source: Peninsula Clarion
08.27.2015	08.27.15 President must experience 'real' Alaska through its people Alaska has benefited from many Presidential visits, and it’s always good to have the national spotlight shine on us. President Ronald Reagan’s visits were particularly memorable, given his keen appreciation for Alaska’s vast natural resources and understanding of the federal government’s history of locking up those resources by taking Alaska lands. “It’s absolutely ridiculous,” President Reagan said in a 1979 campaign stop, bemoaning federal land-grabs. “It’s gotten to the point where a tourist who comes up here won’t even be able to see this land.” In 1983 while serving as President, he spoke stirringly of the importance of Alaska’s natural resources during a visit. “Your state is a treasure trove of resources vital to our economy and to the well-being of every American,” he said. President Reagan, a former western governor, understood Alaska. I know that President Obama — whose upcoming visit is important for us all — is from a different party and has vastly different beliefs about how to grow the economy and the role of the federal government in our lives. And I believe that many of his administration’s actions — including the consistent usurpation of Congress’ powers through issuing executive orders and locking up huge swaths of energy-rich Alaska land — are very detrimental to our country’s and Alaska’s economy. However, there’s something I’m reminded of every day while representing Alaska in the U.S. Senate: Most Alaskans’ hopes and dreams transcend political ideologies. We all want what’s best for our families and communities now and for generations to come. We all want to live in a country that is teeming with opportunity, available to us all. But in Alaska, a land of extraordinary potential, we face a unique problem, one that I hope President Obama recognizes during his visit. In order to make full use of our opportunities, we need to be seen not as symbols or abstractions, but as individuals. With real problems, real needs, real hopes and wishes, living in real cities and towns and rural communities — real people living in a real state. For too long and by too many Outside, Alaska hasn’t been treated as a place in and of its own. It’s been a battleground and a playground, over-romanticized and underappreciated. When the President visits, I hope that he is able to see Alaska not as a snow globe — something to put on a shelf and shaken for a feel-good moment — but as a place described by the drafters of our Constitution as “a homeland filled with opportunities for living, a land where you can worship and pray, a country where ambitions will be bright and real, an Alaska that will grow with you as you grow.” Specifically, I hope that during the President’s visit he sees beyond his climate change agenda to all the state has to offer its residents and the rest of the country. He might begin by focusing on our military and strategic value. Alaska is at the crossroads of the world. We are home to America’s only airborne brigade combat team in the Arctic and Asia-Pacific. They are among the toughest soldiers in the world and are absolutely critical in maintaining our country’s strength as we face increasing challenges to America’s security in the Arctic and Asia-Pacific regions. Yet, the Obama’s administration has made a decision to cut Alaska’s troops. It’s a strategic mistake for the country, and if the President studied the issue and met with the soldiers during his visit, he would realize that. I hope he does and announces he’s rescinding that short-sighted decision. I also hope President Obama sees the potential in the Arctic and announces more resources to bolster our lackluster icebreaker fleet. Russia has 40; we have two, one of which is out of commission. The highways of the Arctic are icebreakers; currently Russians have superhighways and we have dirt roads with potholes. This is the moment to become true leaders in the Arctic by rapidly expanding our icebreaker fleet. A large-diameter natural gas pipeline in Alaska is a project of huge importance that would provide thousands of jobs, low-cost energy throughout the state and dramatically increase America’s national and economic security. In a recent meeting with me, Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell committed that she would work with our state to expedite federal permitting of this critical project. I hope the President makes an announcement directing all federal agencies to fast-track this project as a national priority. The President plans to visit rural Alaska while he’s here, which is great news. The soul of our state is in rural Alaska, where some villages lack basic amenities like water and sewer. Infrastructure development is not only crucial in rural Alaska, it’s the key to unlocking our full economic potential. The highway bill that just passed the Senate emphasizes this. I hope that the President will support it. When I was the Alaska Attorney General, I met with Vice President Joe Biden about our Choose Respect initiative to combat high rates of sexual abuse, domestic violence and suicide. These issues are ones that we Alaskans ultimately have to tackle ourselves. Still, I was heartened by the Vice President’s response when I met with him. “Whatever we can do to help you guys on this, we will do it,” he said. I hope the President announces that he will stand by that pledge. The President himself has said that economic opportunity is one of the best ways to ensure our common good and to give power to the powerless who have fallen victim to violence and despair. That holds just as true in Alaska as anywhere in the country. In Alaska, economic opportunity is stymied when the federal government locks up our resources. An executive order to lock up even more or our land or water, which I fear he will announce while here, will take away more jobs and create more economic hardship and more social problems. When President Obama visits, I hope he sees Alaska for what it is: both a symbol of the very best in the American character and spirit, but also a real place, with real people, working to build a real future in a real world that will benefit not just Alaska, but our nation. I hope he sees the place we call home. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Juneau Empire
08.27.2015	08.27.15 Fixing Alaska's model VA system: Used to reform national veterans' care, state system now needs help News-Miner opinion: A year and a half ago, the national Veterans Affairs health system was in disarray. At clinics across the Lower 48, veterans waited for care for weeks and months, in some cases dying before receiving treatment. But the Alaska system was a different story. Thanks to reforms pushed by the state’s congressional delegation, the Last Frontier’s veterans had shorter waits and better access to care. So Congress developed a national system akin to Alaska’s — only to have its rollout worsen conditions for veterans here. A state with as strong of a veterans’ presence as Alaska deserves better from the system. The revelation that VA health care was widely inadequate rocked Washington, D.C., in spring 2014. The worst offender in the system was Phoenix, Arizona, where officials maintained two separate care lists. One was a partially fabricated record they sent to administrators in Washington, D.C., that showed procedures were prompt, while the real care record showed marathon waits for care — some of longer than a year. The fallout from the scandal was immense, eventually forcing the resignation of then-VA Secretary Eric Shinseki. Spurred by the magnitude of the system’s failings, Congress exhibited a rare act of bipartisanship in debating and passing a system of reforms to the VA — ones that had roots in the Alaska VA system. Veterans make up about 10 percent of Alaska’s population, and of those, about half are eligible for VA health benefits. So the 49th state had become aware of problems in the way its system worked earlier than the rest of the country. Alaska veterans often had to wait months for care, and then-Sen. Mark Begich helped enact reforms. He helped devise a system whereby veterans could go to clinics closer to home rather than be served in distant, centralized facilities with long waitlists for care. By the time the national VA scandal exploded, Alaska’s VA wait times were significantly decreased and the state was a model upon which Congress could base its reforms. The reform bill, known colloquially as the Choice Act, went into effect in August 2014. It passed the Senate by a vote of 91-3, and indications are that it has helped ease the worst of the problems in the Lower 48. But here in Alaska, veterans say it’s made a good system worse. The Choice Act’s reforms were implemented by TriWest Health Care Alliance in Alaska. Veterans attending meetings on VA health care this week held by Sen. Dan Sullivan said they often have difficulty getting help through TriWest’s Lower 48-based phone system. Others chafed at the health care contractor’s scheduling, saying those waiting for care aren’t given consideration by TriWest representatives with regard to when treatment takes place, saying they were given a “take-it-or-leave-it” choice. TriWest, for its part, says the problems with the system so far stem from the fact that the company was given a short time frame to redesign its administration of 21 states’ VA health care. Many of the problems raised by Alaska veterans have already been addressed, TriWest CEO David McIntyre Jr., told the News-Miner this week. If that’s the case, the problems experienced by Alaska veterans should subside in the months to come. Sen. Sullivan is doing the right thing by listening to those in line for VA care to make sure that’s the case. Alaska was the model for the reforms instituted nationwide by Congress; it would be a cruel irony if those reforms cost the state the functionality of its own system. By: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner Editorial Board Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
08.17.2015	08.17.15 Sullivan: Russian moves highlight Arctic concerns JUNEAU, Alaska - U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan said the Russians are looking to militarize the Arctic, making it all the more important for the U.S. to have a broad Arctic strategy that includes having sufficient troops based in Alaska. Sullivan said Monday that's why he has been critical of proposed troop reductions in Alaska as part of a cost-saving plan announced by the Army this summer. His office said Sullivan got included in the Senate version of a defense spending bill a provision to require the U.S. secretary of defense to detail a military strategy for the Arctic. Differences between House and Senate versions have to be resolved. Russia recently resubmitted to the United Nations a revised bid for vast territories in the Arctic. Russia made the claim under provisions of the Law of the Sea Treaty, which the U.S. has not ratified. Sullivan does not support ratification, citing concerns that the treaty could result in the UN imposing taxes on U.S. entities. Alaska's senior U.S. senator, Lisa Murkowski, last week told reporters she strongly supported ratification and said the U.S. cannot assert its own claims or object to claims by others if it has not ratified the treaty. "It puts us at a disadvantage," she said. Asked if there were possible workarounds, she said that was something that should be reviewed and explored. Both Murkowski and Sullivan are Republicans. Monday's news conference, held to discuss Sullivan's first months in office, featured a wide range of topics, including veterans' health care and President Barack Obama's upcoming visit to the state. Sullivan was sworn in in January, after defeating Democratic Sen. Mark Begich during a hotly contested race last year. Sullivan plans to hold two listening sessions next Monday to hear from veterans and others who have concerns with the health care provided through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, of which Sullivan is a member, plans a field hearing in Eagle River on Aug. 25. Veterans have expressed frustrations with the VA's implementation of a national program meant to provide veterans with timelier care closer to home. The national program was modeled in part on the VA's system in Alaska, which relied on partnerships with tribal health care facilities to help provide care. But the move to implement the national program here has raised concerns over such things as a limited number of participating doctors and low reimbursement rates. Sullivan said he wants to hear plans from VA officials on how to move forward. VA Undersecretary for Health David Shulkin is expected to attend the meetings, Sullivan's office has said. By: Becky Bohrer Source: Associated Press
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Sullivan says August is Opportunity for Vets to be Heard, Announces VA Listening Sessions & Field Hearing WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Given the importance of Alaska veterans to the state and to the country, the month of August will be a great opportunity for Alaskans to directly engage with VA officials in the state, including with VA Secretary Bob McDonald, and David Shulkin, the VA Undersecretary of Health. At U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan’s request, Dr. Shulkin, along with other state officials, will attend two listening sessions and an official field hearing on August 24 and 25, focusing on problems with the VA’s implementation of the Veterans Choice Program in Alaska, as well as the Community-Based Outpatient Clinic in Wasilla. VA Secretary Bob McDonald also took Senator Sullivan up on an invitation to visit Alaska. Secretary McDonald will be in the state next week. Senator Sullivan is scheduled for Marine Corps Reserves training, but will get a full briefing when he returns. His state director, retired Air Force Col. Otto Feather, will accompany Secretary McDonald on his visit. “I’m pleased that Secretary McDonald is visiting the state, and I trust that he will be getting a greater appreciation for the positive impact our exemplary veterans have on our community in Alaska. I hope that he’ll also see firsthand how, as a result of the implementation of the Choice Act, many Alaska vets aren’t getting the care they deserve and were promised.” As a response to the long wait-time scandals at the Phoenix Veterans Affairs facility, the Choice Act was signed into law in 2014. However, due to Alaska’s unique needs, the Choice Act program is not delivering on the promise of improving access to care for Alaska’s veterans. Senator Sullivan’s office has heard from numerous veterans who are being ill served by the Choice Program. The Community-Based Outpatient Clinic in Wasilla, which serves veterans, has for years been plagued with problems. As a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, Senator Sullivan has been stressing the urgency of the ongoing crisis. “Without exaggeration we have a five-alarm fire going on in Alaska with our veterans because of the way the Choice Act is being implemented,” Senator Sullivan said. “I have extracted commitments from VA officials to come to Alaska in August with solutions on hand.” Below are the details for the listening sessions and the field hearing. Testimony at the field hearing is limited to invitees. The media and the public are encouraged to attend all events. Listening Sessions When: Monday, August 24. 11:00 a.m-1:00 p.m. Where: Mona Lisa Drexler Assembly Chambers, 809 Pioneer Road, Fairbanks. When: Monday, August 24. 6:00 - 8:00 p.m. Where: Dena’ina Wellness Center, 508 Upland Street, Kenai. Field Hearing When: Tuesday, August 25. 5:30 - 7:30 p.m. Where: Alliance Christian Fellowship Church, 16620 Brooks Loop, Eagle River
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Sullivan Introduces the RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) introduced S. 1944, The RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act to help grow our country’s economy by freezing the growing number of federal regulations promulgated each year. If the legislation is enacted, a federal agency will be required to remove a regulation from the Federal Register for every new one promulgated. If they refuse to do so, the cost of living adjustment for agency personnel will be withheld until the agency abides by the law. (Click on photo above to view Sen. Sullivan’s floor speech) Many economists and experts across the country point to regulations—the size and scope of which continue to increase substantially every year—as a major factor in our sluggish economy. Regulatory compliance and economic costs are estimated to be $1.88 trillion a year. If it were a country, U.S. regulations would be the world’s 10th largest economy, ranking behind Russia and ahead of India. “If you imagine that the United States is in a global poker game with all other major nations in the world, the fact is that we hold all the cards,” Sullivan said in a speech on the Senate floor. “We have a tech sector that’s the envy of the world, an agriculture system that feeds the world, the best universities, the best military, a booming energy sector, and the very best work force. Yet our economy is stagnant. We haven’t we been able to grow at traditional levels. Why? Many economists believe that over burdensome, costly regulations share a large part of the blame. And Alaska is ground zero for job-killing regulations. This bill is a bold step in fixing the problem. It cuts the red tape that binds us and will bind the regulatory system instead.” Cutting job-killing regulations and fighting federal overreach was a campaign promise and has been a priority for Senator Sullivan since being elected. Summary of The RED (Regulations Endanger Democracy) Tape Act: This straight-forward legislation would help rein in the out-of-control regulatory system in the United States. Using a simple one in, one out method, new regulations that cause a financial or administrative burden on businesses or the people of the United States would need to be offset by repealing an existing regulation. Regulations include not only those issued by Executive Order from the President of the United States, but also regulations that are issued by an agency in the form of memorandums, guidance documents, bulletins, and press releases. If an agency wants to issue a new regulation or amend an existing regulation that would create a financial or administrative burden, an agency must repeal one or more existing regulations. If an agency head refuses to offset a new regulation by repealing an existing regulation, cost of living adjustments will be withheld until the agency abides by the law. Twice a year, each agency will be required to publish, through the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions, a list of new, incoming regulations, as well as the existing regulations that are being repealed to comply with the one in, one out law. Incoming and outgoing regulations must be published at the same time and without delay. This one in, one out rule would not apply if an agency is only seeking to repeal a regulation without introducing a new one.
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Alaska Delegation Seeks Answers on Reductions in U.S. Army Alaska Force Structure WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter to Secretary of the Army John McHugh, Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, and Congressman Don Young this week requested additional information and documentation relating to the Army’s recent decision to reduce Alaska force structure by 2,600 troops. “In accordance with our Congressional responsibility to provide oversight, we request the documentation used by senior U.S. Army leadership to make this strategically short-sighted decision,” the delegation wrote. “In our view, the current threat environment and the location of those threats does not align with the U.S. Army’s decision to remove forces from Alaska.” The Alaska congressional delegation reiterated its firm belief that a reduction in Alaska’s Army presence “would be a strategic blunder,” inconsistent with the diverse and complex national security threats in the Asia Pacific identified by senior defense officials. “As a delegation, we share the concerns expressed by Generals Joe Dunford, Paul Selva, Mark Milley, and Robert Neller about Russia’s threat to U.S. national security,” the letter stated. “Unfortunately, we believe the U.S. Army failed to fully consider the importance of Alaska’s Army forces in countering Russian emergence as a leading threat, a fact stated by numerous senior Department of Defense leaders.” Citing serious discrepancies in the methodology and modeling used in the U.S. Army’s Military Value Analysis (MVA) and the long-term strategic impacts of the decision, the Alaska delegation formally requested “all of the U.S. Army’s decision documents on these force structure decisions, including the entire MVA and the Total Army Analysis (TAA).” “As you are aware, the 4-25 Airborne Bridge Combat Team (ABCT) can respond to most crisis areas in the Northern Hemisphere faster than anywhere else in the continental U.S.,” the letter says. “Additionally, we believe that Alaska is home to some of the world’s greatest, most abundant, topographically-challenging, and climate-diverse joint training areas. However, it has come to our attention that Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) scored in the bottom third of the U.S. Army’s Military Value Analysis (MVA). Needless to say, this modeling perplexes us.” In addition to requesting decision documents, the letter requests answers to an extensive list of questions to clarify the Army’s decision-making process and open the dialogue with senior Army officials on Alaska troops reductions.
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Alaska Priorities Included in Long-Term Highway Reauthorization Bill WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) voted in support of the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy (DRIVE) Act, a bipartisan six-year highway reauthorization bill, which passed the U.S. Senate on a vote of 65-34. "Our nation’s roads and bridges are critical to this country’s economic growth and our way of life,” said Senator Sullivan. "Today’s passage of the DRIVE Act will provide fiscal certainty and a funding structure for our country’s roads and infrastructure. In Alaska, the bill increases much-needed transportation funding for the core highway programs and for tribal transportation and the ferry system. It also cuts through project-killing red-tape and streamlines regulatory burdens, all without raising taxes on hard-working Alaskans.” As a member of two of the four Senate committees with jurisdiction over development of the highway bill – the Senate Environment and Public Works and Commerce, Science and Transportation Committees – Senator Sullivan worked to secure a number of provisions that will increase funding for programs critical to Alaska’s transportation infrastructure, provide flexibility from federal one-size-fits all mandates, and work to minimize the project permitting time that currently leads to increased project costs and delays in the delivery of essential infrastructure projects. Senator Sullivan delivers for Alaska: Maintains Alaska’s favorable current funding formula structure Overall and year over year funding increases for core highway programs Overall and year over year funding increases to the Tribal Transportation Program Overall and year over year funding increases to the Federal Lands Transportation Program Overall increase to the Federal Lands Access Program Flexibility and streamlining for certain rural road and bridge projects Increase of $400,000 annually in funding for Alaska’s ferry system Provides relief from the mandates of Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program by providing a PM2.5 waiver for rural areas (Fairbanks) Reduction of administrative costs for the Tribal Transportation Program Tribal Grant program funded at $150 million per year Inclusion of many provisions to streamline the environmental permitting process to deliver projects in a timely matter. Two portability provisions that provide greater ability to streamline the project permitting process Historic 4(f) reform Establishment of Infrastructure Permitting Center Includes performance measures and targets to provide more transparency and accountability to the project permitting process Mandates stakeholder and community engagement in Infrastructure Permitting Center activities Fix for Alaska land swap for a project that connect the communities of Southeast Alaska DRIVE ACT APPORTIONMENT FOR ALASKA FY16 $506,764,868 FY17 $522,024,342 FY18 $539,383,627 FY19 $556,659,687 FY20 $570,670,799 FY21 $585,026,311 Alaska’s FY14 total was $483,955,039. Increases support for core formula programs: The existing consolidated core highway program structure from MAP-21 is maintained including: the National Highway Performance Program; the Highway Safety Improvement Program; the Surface Transportation Program; and the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program. Each core formula program receives a proportionate increase in funding to support long-term state transportation investment plans. Ferry Funding: The bill increases funding for the ferry system from $67 million to $80 million a year. This translates into $18.6 million for ferries in Alaska. It’s an increase from $18.2 million in FY14 and will be an increase of $2.4 million over the course of the bill. The Tribal Transportation Program (TTP): The Tribal Transportation Program has been flat funded at $450 million in recent years. This bill increases funding to $465 million in the first year and grows the program by $10 million a year for the following five years of bill. PM 2.5 waiver for Congestion Mitigation program: Provides flexibility for transportation funds under the CMAQ program with respect to the PM2.5 set-aside for states with low population densities. This frees up funding to be spent on local priority projects rather than compliance with nonattainment standards. This will provide flexibility for PM 2.5 nonattainment communities like Fairbanks, Alaska. Land Swap in Alaska:Language clarifies a 2005 statute to ensure the proper exchange of land between Alaska and the United States Forest Service. This effort included 357 easements, 231 marine access points, 126 log transfer facilities, and 19 transportation and utility corridors. The language included in the bill restores the intent of the law and will allow the exchange of all remaining reciprocal easements to continue. Regulatory Relief/ Permitting Reform Provisions The environmental review process that is required for completing a highway project is slow and cumbersome. Delays within the environmental review process can lead to increased costs, and delays in essential safety projects. The bill improves the process for creating programmatic agreements to help streamline environmental reviews, improves collaboration between the lead agency and the participating agencies, allows for greater reliance on documents prepared during the planning process, and reduces duplication between agencies involved in the federal environmental review and permitting process. Federal Lands Transportation Program: The Federal Lands Transportation Program has been flat-funded at $300 million a year. This bill increases funding to $305 million in the first year and grows the program $5 million a year for the following 5 years of the bill. Federal Lands Access Program: The Federal Lands Access Program has been flat-funded at $250 million since 2012. This bill increases funding to $255 million in FY17 and grows the program $5 million a year for each subsequent year of the bill.
07.17.2015	07.17.15 Sullivan Urges Secretary Kerry Against Introducing UN Resolution to Lift Iranian Sanctions WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) wrote a letter today to Secretary of State John Kerry, urging him not to introduce a resolution to the United Nations that would void sanctions on Iran prior to Congress debating and voting on the nuclear agreement finalized earlier this week. Secretary Kerry is expected to introduce the UN resolution as early as Monday as part of the United States’ negotiated commitments under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Congress passed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015, which stated that Congress has 60 days to approve or disapprove any Iranian nuclear agreement. Congress has not even begun debate. “This agreement should fully withstand the scrutiny of a process that has already been signed into law by the passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act before it comes to any outside body whose members are not citizens of the United States,” Senator Sullivan wrote to Secretary Kerry. “As a former member of the U.S. Senate, and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, you should be well aware that your current course of action would undermine the legal and Constitutional prerogatives of the U.S. Congress.” ### A copy of the letter is available here.
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Senator Sullivan Statement on Iran Nuclear Deal WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) issued the following statement today regarding the Obama Administration’s nuclear agreement with Iran: “The principal objective of entering into negotiations with Iran from the beginning was to keep that country—the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism—from obtaining a nuclear weapon,” Senator Sullivan said. “However, we have moved from the clear objective of dismantling Iran’s nuclear weapons capability to managing the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the Middle East. President Ronald Reagan famously said that in the realm of high stakes nuclear agreements, the United States must ‘trust but verify.’ We have neither in this agreement. Iran’s leaders are not trustworthy and the agreement appears to lack the unfettered inspections needed to verify compliance.” “The primary responsibility of the president and of those of us in Congress is to keep our country safe. The president seems to have forgotten this. As we're reviewing the agreement in the coming months, my colleagues and I won’t.” ###
07.08.2015	07.08.15 AK Congressional Delegation Speaks Out Against Troop Cuts at Fort Richardson WASHINGTON, D.C. – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation today is responding to the news of continued significant reductions in the size and capability of the U.S. Army. In addition to cuts in Georgia and Hawaii, the Army told the delegation it will be downsizing its operations in Alaska at Fort Richardson by cutting 2,600 soldiers there and 75 soldiers at Fort Wainwright. “Along with thousands of Alaskans, I find this decision devastating, far beyond what it means to our state economy, but what it means to America’s defense. It is staggering that the Obama administration is making such short-sighted decisions and ignoring the emerging threat before our noses presented by Russia, China and North Korea,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “The Secretary of Defense told me he wants a robust Arctic defense immediately, the Army Chief of Staff testified on the need to maintain a strong military presence in Alaska and every cabinet official and military commander I speak to acknowledges the need for a strong Arctic posture. The Alaska Congressional delegation will continue to challenge this decision and seek a more responsible outcome to defend our nation in this vital and volatile region.” “I am extremely frustrated with today’s decision. But I take some solace that the U.S. Army left the door open to reversing this decision by not eliminating a full brigade from Alaska,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “While I understand these troop reductions reflect the Administration’s world view of what the Army should be, I do not believe that the Department of Defense’s decision adhered to the Senate’s defense guidance in the NDAA. This decision was obviously made without a full understanding of the geostrategic importance of Alaska’s troops to our national security. Since day one, I have worked on the Senate Armed Services Committee to call attention to Russia’s increasingly aggressive military buildup in the Arctic. And as I’m sure President Obama would even admit, Russia is not a JV team and neither is North Korea. Like this year’s National Defense Authorization Act says, we need more forces in the Asia-Pacific – like Alaska – not less. These decisions need to be made based on strategy, not on bean-counting. Therefore, I have placed a hold on a senior DOD official who was set to be confirmed by the Senate today. I will continue the hold until I get answers to questions about how this affects our national security, and continue to work with our Congressional delegation to reverse this strategically misguided decision.” "I was extremely disturbed to hear the Army even consider – let alone reach a final decision on – plans to reduce troop levels in Alaska," said Congressman Don Young. "In these times of growing global threats, especially in the Asia-Pacific and Arctic regions, the Army should be increasing its presence in Alaska – not cutting it by more than 2,600 soldiers. While the Army masks its decision as a budgetary issue, they’ve failed to fully consider the strategic interests of the nation. Losing the only airborne brigade in the Pacific Theater – the only airborne brigade with cold-weather, mountainous, and Arctic training – will negatively affect the Army’s ability to operate in the Pacific region for years to come. As the Alaska delegation has done in the past, we will continue to fight this decision to ensure there is a strong Army presence in the most strategic location in the world: Alaska." In light of the Pacific region’s volatility and the heightened Russian aggression in the Arctic, Alaska’s Congressional Delegation reached out to the U.S. Army in March urging them to consider adding soldiers in Alaska – not reductions.
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Sullivan Supports Long-Term Highway Reauthorization Bill out of EPW Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined his Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee colleagues in unanimously passing S. 1647, the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy (DRIVE) Act out of committee. This bipartisan six-year highway reauthorization bill, will now await action by the three other U.S. Senate committees of jurisdiction – Banking, Commerce and Finance – to pass their respective parts of the overall highway reauthorization bill. "The EPW committee took a major step forward with the bipartisan passage of a long-term highway reauthorization bill. Our nation’s roads and bridge infrastructure are critical to this country’s economic growth and our way of life,” said Senator Sullivan. "The DRIVE Act will provide a funding structure for our country’s roads and infrastructure. In Alaska, the bill increases much-needed transportation funding, for tribal transportation and for the ferry system. It also cuts through project-killing red-tape and streamlines regulatory burdens.” “While this is a step in the right direction, the Senate Finance Committee is now tasked with coming up with the dollars to make this legislation work. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to find a bipartisan solution to make a critical investment in our nation’s infrastructure without leaving middle class families stuck with the bill,” Senator Sullivan said. Funding: The DRIVE Act is a six-year bill that sets funding levels at $2 billion above the baseline in the first year. From there, the bill sets growth of the program at inflation for the following 5 years. The bill maintains the current formula that delivers a high rate of return for Alaska. DRIVE ACT APPORTIONMENT FOR ALASKA FY16 519,568,588 FY17 530,346,761 FY18 541,944,371 FY19 554,406,232 FY20 568,417,344 FY21 582,772,876 Alaska’s FY14 Total was $483,955,039. Increases support for core formula programs: The existing consolidated core highway program structure from MAP-21 is maintained, including: the National Highway Performance Program; the Highway Safety Improvement Program; the Surface Transportation Program; and the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program. The Tribal Transportation Program (TTP): The tribal transportation program has been flat funded at $450 million in recent years. This bill increases funding to $460 million in the first year and grows the program $10 million a year for every year of the six-year bill. Federal Lands Transportation Program: The Federal Lands Transportation Program has been flat funded at $300 million a year. This bill increases funding to $305 million in the first year and grows the program $5 million a year for every year of the six-year bill. Federal Lands Access Program: The Federal Lands Access Program has also been flat funded at $250 million. This bill increases funding to $255 million in the first year and grows the program $5 million a year for every year of the six year bill. Ferry Funding: The bill increases funding for the ferry system from $67 million to $75 million a year. Accelerated Project Delivery: The environmental review process that is required for completing a highway project is slow and cumbersome. Delays within the environmental review process can lead to increased costs, traffic congestion, and less safe roads. Specifically, the bill improves the cumbersome historic preservation review process to ensure that the processes for doing historic preservation are aligned to prevent needless delay. Additionally, the bill ensures that certain categorical exclusions (CE) will remain relevant for years to come by indexing that CE to inflation. The bill also improves the process for creating programmatic agreements to help streamline environmental reviews, improves collaboration between the lead agency and the participating agencies, allows for greater reliance on documents prepared during the planning process, and reduces duplication between agencies involved in the federal environmental review and permitting process. SPECIFIC PROVISIONS: PM 2.5 waiver for Congestion Mitigation program: Provides flexibility with respect to the PM 2.5 set-aside for states with low population densities. This will provide flexibility for PM 2.5 nonattainment communities such as Fairbanks, Alaska. Land Swap in Alaska: Language clarifies a 2005 statue to ensure the proper exchange of land between Alaska and the United States Forest Service. This effort included 357 easements, 231 marine access points, 126 log transfer facilities, and 19 transportation and utility corridors. The language included in the bill restores the intent of the law and will allow for the exchange of all remaining reciprocal easements to continue. Tribal transportation program amendment: Decreases program administrative expenses related to the tribal transportation program from 6% to 5%. Increases the set-aside for high-priority tribal bridges from 2% to 3%. This amendment makes the program more efficient by ensuring funds are being spent on building infrastructure in the program. Nationally significant Federal lands and Tribal projects program: Authorizes an appropriation for a major project discretionary grant program for transportation projects on facilities owned by federal land management agencies or tribes. Project Bundling: This provision allows projects to bundle together with other similar projects in order to maximize efficiencies. It allows for the flexibility of making payments on a program of projects, as long as the match is met by the completion of the project in the bundle rather than having to make each payment of the match. It streamlines the approval process by consolidating paperwork. Bundling structure would incentivize and allow projects access to participate in TIFIA, State Infrastructure Banks, and AMP. Rural Road and Bridge Projects: The provision grants the Secretary of Transportation new authorities to provide exceptions and exemptions that provide regulatory relief and flexibility for rural road and bridge projects. National Freight Program: The provision will initiate funding in 2016 and will be distributed through apportionment. The program is funded at $2 billion starting in FY16, and increases by $100 million for the subsequent five years. The language instructs DOT to designate a primary freight network of 30,000 miles. It also requires states to establish freight advisory committees and designate critical rural and urban networks respectively. The bill provides funding for states’ most pressing freight needs, which include critical first and last mile funding to freight hubs, such as ports. Acceleration of Project Delivery/NEPA: The provision indexes to inflation the categorical exclusion for projects that receive less than $5 million in federal funds with a total estimated cost of less than $30 million. The language aligns the Section 106 and 4(f) processes related to historic preservation. It eliminates duplicative reviews by allowing project sponsors to limit the scope of NEPA reviews based on the actual purpose and need of the process as determined by the transportation planning process. The provision allows for a governor to request that DOT initiate the Environmental Review Process and requires a formal response through that process from DOT. The provision requires DOT to give technical assistance to states that hope to take over the categorical exclusion process. It requires the creation of a template for programmatic agreements for categorical exclusions that would make it easier for states to enter into a programmatic agreement. The language requires DOT to give substantial weight to programmatic agreements. The provision reforms the application of categorical exclusions for multimodal projects. Provides exemptions from the Migratory Bird Act for certain types of bridge infrastructure. The provision addresses bridge construction for the barn swallow issue. Establishes transparency by setting up a public platform for projects undergoing NEPA review. Allows advanced design work and ROW acquisition. Allows categorical exclusions in one mode apply to all in a multimodal project. ###
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Sullivan Statement on King v. Burwell Decision WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court handed down its decision in the King v. Burwell case, upholding ObamaCare’s subsidies: “From its inception, ObamaCare has been a catastrophe. It has failed to deliver on the promises made by its supporters, particularly in Alaska. Premiums for Alaskans are skyrocketing. Many are facing insurance rate-increases of up to 38 percent next year. Thousands have lost their plans and have lost their doctors. Quality of care has decreased. Insurance companies are leaving the state, and when the so-called “Cadillac Tax” kicks in, thousands of Alaskan workers will be paying even more in taxes. In short, ObamaCare, or as Supreme Court Justice Scalia called it, ‘Scotuscare,’ has been a disaster for Alaska. Therefore, I am extremely disappointed with the Supreme Court’s decision. I, and my colleagues in the Senate, remain committed to repealing this disastrous law and replacing it with patient-centered reforms.” ###
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Sullivan presses official on fixing ‘five-alarm fire’ in VA healthcare system in Alaska WASHINGTON, DC – During a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing today to discuss pending legislation, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) pressed a senior VA official on fixing the emerging crisis in Alaska’s unique VA system. Senator Sullivan has heard complaints from numerous Alaska veterans since the “Choice Act” began to be implemented in Alaska. Additionally, Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA) committed to Senator Sullivan’s request to hold a field hearing in Alaska in August to help fix the breakdown in implementation of the Choice Act in Alaska. As a response to the long wait-time scandals at the Phoenix Veterans Affairs facility, the Choice Act was signed into law in 2014. However, due to Alaska’s unique needs, the Choice Act program is not delivering on the promise of improving access to care for Alaska’s veterans. Senator Sullivan officially requested a hearing on June 16. Senator Lisa Murkowski, Representative Don Young, and Governor Bill Walker have also all written letters imploring the VA to act on the crisis. (Click on the photo above to watch Sen. Sullivan question VA official) During the hearing today, Senator Sullivan stressed the urgency of the ongoing crisis, and likened it to the Phoenix VA scandal. “(W)e have…without exaggeration a five-alarm fire going on in my state—with our veterans, because of the way the Choice Act is being implemented,” Senator Sullivan said. VA officials have traveled to Alaska to listen to complaints. However, at the hearing and during a phone call to the VA’s newly confirmed Under Secretary for Health, Senator Sullivan received commitments for long-term solutions to Alaska’s crisis. He demanded that during the upcoming field hearing in Alaska, the VA would provide those solutions to ensure that our veterans have the healthcare they need and have earned. “It’s Phoenix all over again. People are having their appointments cancelled at the last minute, showing up for surgery,” Senator Sullivan said. “The VA in Washington has to take responsibility. It can’t blame this on the Congress.” ###
06.18.2015	06.18.15 Sullivan Applauds Passage of NDAA Bill WASHINGTON, DC – Today Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) joined 70 of his colleagues to pass legislation to authorize $612 billion in critical defense spending for Fiscal Year 2016. “Our most important job is to protect the country,” Senator Sullivan said. “That’s what this National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) does. It also makes important modernization investments, cuts bureaucratic red tape at the Pentagon, and ensures our Armed Forces remain the most agile and lethal in the world.” In his first National Defense Authorization Act, Senator Sullivan successfully included seven Alaska-related amendments. Working with Senators on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan advanced initiatives that will play an important role in continuing to highlight Alaska’s strategic position in the Pacific and the Arctic. “Alaska’s strategic location cannot be understated,” Senator Sullivan said. “It’s the northern anchor of the rebalance to the Asia-Pacific. And it’s the United States’ only Arctic state, an area with one of the greatest repositories of the untapped energy resources that will power our nation’s future. This NDAA helps protects those resources and U.S. interests against insurgent threats from countries like Russia, which, in a quest to realize imperialist dreams of expansion, has been on a clear mission to militarize the Arctic.” Sullivan Strategic Amendments: Requiring an Arctic Strategy and Operation Plan: This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to detail a military strategy in the Arctic region and importantly requires a description of an Operation Plan for protection of U.S. national security interests in the Arctic. Additionally, this amendment requires the Department of Defense to identify and begin to mitigate capability, infrastructure and personnel gaps in the Arctic and asks for a plan to further enhance military-to-military cooperation with partner nations. The bill also includes a provision to identify emerging Russian capabilities and strategies in the Arctic. Maintaining the Credibility of the Rebalance to the Pacific: This amendment expresses the Sense of the Congress that, in order maintain a credible military strategy rebalance, the U.S. must continue to shift military forces to the Asia-Pacific region and should actually increase forces in the Pacific Theater, including Outside the Contiguous United States (OCONUS) operationally controlled by U.S. Pacific Command, which includes forces in Alaska. With the emphasis the Administration has placed on the Rebalance to the Asia-Pacific region, it is important that Congress continues to show unwavering support on this critical shift to our allies in the region. The amendment also expresses the Sense of the Congress that any decrease in military personnel, which would include forces in Alaska, would “seriously undermine the rebalance.” Supporting the Robust Use and Training of F-35As: This amendment expresses the Sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force should consider strategically significant criteria when basing forward deployed F-35As. These criteria – found in abundance in Alaska – include access to sufficient range capabilities and space for training, the ability to robustly train with our international partners, the presence of existing facilities to support operations, limited encroachment, and the minimization of costs. Other Alaska Related Amendments: Reducing High Cost of Energy at Military Bases: This amendment requires a much-needed report on the Department of Defense’s efforts to reduce the cost of energy at the top 20 percent of installations, like those in Alaska. This amendment also allows for the Department of Defense to work collaboratively with state and local authorities to find ways to bring down energy costs. This amendment should set the stage for the Department of Defense to bring its considerable resources to bear on the high cost of energy in places like Interior Alaska as the Department of Defense ramps up its military force structure in the region. Requesting Ground-Based Interceptors System Upgrade Report: This amendment requires the Commander of the United States Northern Command to set forth the status of current and planned efforts to improve the homeland ballistic missile defense capability of the United States and the ground infrastructure at Fort Greely. Promoting the Use of FAA-Licensed Spaceports: This amendment highlights the unique importance of spaceports like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska found on Kodiak Island to the national security space program. The Pacific Spaceport Complex – Alaska has supported numerous launches for Air Force Space Command including various national security launches. Advocating for the Innovative Readiness Training (IRT) Program: This amendment encourages the Department of Defense to continue to utilize the IRT program – which in recent years have been used in Alaska to fund Operation Arctic Care, runway improvements on Kodiak Island, and costal erosion mitigation in Newtok. Provisions included in the 2016 NDAA of Alaskan benefit and interest: “Importantly, by prioritizing funding for the modernization of critical initiatives like homeland defense and combat air power, the NDAA rightfully recognizes the importance of missile defense and the continued development and deployment of F-35s. Along these lines, this bill funds $400 million above the Department of Defense’s $8.1 billion request for missile defense, a significant portion of which will be invested in Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. Missile Defense: Funds $400 million above the Department of Defense’s $8.1 billion budget request for missile defense programs. This funding includes $1.28 billion for the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) element of the Ballistic Missile Defense System. Much of the warfighting capabilities for GMD are located at Fort Greely, Alaska. Missile Defense Sensors: Includes $233.6 million for Missile Defense Sensors and $137.6 million for the Long Range Discriminating Radar (LRDR) which will be located at Clear Air Force Station. F-35: Includes $5.3 billion to procure 44 F-35As and keep the program on track. If Eielson Air Force Base is selected, the FY2017 Budget request will begin the process of funding some F-35As that will be deployed to Alaska. Military Construction Funding for Three Interior Alaska Priorities: $37 million for a F-35A Flight Simulator at Eielson Air Force Base. $34 million for the repair and replacement of a boiler at Eielson Air Force Base’s central heat and power plant. $7.8 million for a Physical Readiness Training Facility at Fort Greely. ###
06.16.2015	06.16.15 Sullivan Requests VA Oversight Hearing on Issues Facing Alaska Veterans WASHINGTON, DC – In response to growing concerns over the implementation of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Act program in Alaska, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) wrote the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), asking for an oversight hearing of the U.S. Veterans Administration to help identify the breakdown in implementation of the Choice Act program in Alaska. As a response to the long wait-time scandals at the Phoenix Veterans Affairs facility, the Choice Act was signed into law in 2014. However, due to Alaska’s unique needs, the Choice Act program is not delivering on the promise of improving access to care for Alaska’s veterans. Senator Sullivan’s offices have received numerous complaints about the program from Alaska veterans. “I want Alaska veterans to know that I have heard their concerns loud and clear,” Senator Sullivan said. “I share the grave concerns of those who have called my office about the way the Choice Act is being implemented. The one-size-fits-all model of the Choice Act does not adequately account for the unique dynamics of Alaska and our veterans. Put simply: The Choice Program is just not working in Alaska right now. As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I will use my position on the Committee to do everything in my power to ensure that our veterans continue to get the healthcare that they were promised and have earned.” Senator Sullivan is a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. To view the letter -- click here. ###
06.10.2015	06.10.15 Sullivan Blasts EPA’s Proposal to Regulate Aircraft Emissions WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan released the following statement today regarding the Obama Administration’s preliminary proposal to regulate aircraft emissions. “It’s official: The Obama Administration’s EPA will stop at nothing to take control over our country’s land, water and air and to threaten the industries that employ millions of American workers,” Senator Sullivan said. “Today’s misguided actions by the Environmental Protection Agency highlight just how far this Administration has pushed the limits of its authority. For months, I have asked EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy where her agency gets the legal authority to greatly expand its jurisdiction over our land and water. I have yet to get an answer. Only Congress has the authority to expand jurisdiction of these areas – and members on both sides of the aisle know it. Americans are beginning to understand that they’re being regulated out of jobs, and that our country is being regulated out of a strong economy. This federal overreach cannot and will not fly in this Congress.” ###
06.04.2015	06.04.15 Sullivan Fights for Increased Benefits for Alaska’s Veterans WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement after signing on as an original cosponsor to S. 1493, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015. The legislation allows for an increase in rates for VA disability compensation, dependency and indemnity compensation, and clothing allowance by the same amount as the cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) provided to Social Security recipients. “As an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and a strong supporter of our nation’s Armed Forces, I know how important it is to ensure our veterans get the resources and care they have earned serving our nation,” said Senator Sullivan. “Just as Social Security recipients receive a yearly COLA, so too should our veterans. It is just commonsense. Alaska, which proudly boasts the highest number of veterans per capita in the United States, will benefit from this COLA. I hope this bipartisan legislation moves quickly so we can get it on the President’s desk for his signature as soon as possible. It’s the least we can do for our veterans. They deserve it.” S. 1493 is sponsored by Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and ranking member Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and co-sponsored by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), John Boozman (R-AR), Dean Heller (R-NV), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Jon Tester (D-MT), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Joe Manchin (D-WV) ###
06.04.2015	06.04.15 Alaska Delegation: Fort Wainwright Soon Welcoming Gray Eagle “Sky Warriors” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation received good news today from the United States Army, that Fort Wainwright will be the home base for nine “Gray Eagle” Unmanned Combat Air Vehicles. This announcement solidifies the Department of Defense’s investment of manpower and infrastructure in Alaska, the “most strategic location in the world.” The Gray Eagle Company will bring 128 military personnel and their families to Interior Alaska beginning next month, and represents a major addition of military hardware that complements Alaska’s two combat infantry brigades, the Apache helicopters and Air Force assets. The U.S. Army also informed the delegation that while the aircraft will be housed at an existing facility in the short-term, it plans to seek constructing for a UAV facility in the President’s 2017 budget. “Alaska is the tip of the spear when it comes to the Pentagon’s strategic shift to the Asia-Pacific, but the Pentagon clearly sees it as a superior choice to also respond to increasing military activities in the Arctic region,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “It was not too long ago that the Department of Defense was taking a closer look at its investment and presence in Alaska; it’s now evident that officials came away from examining Alaska extremely impressed and convinced that we are the optimal location and community for men and women in uniform.” “Today’s announcement from the Army is the latest in a string of good news for military basing and positioning in Alaska. The Gray Eagle Company will provide benefit to Alaskan service members by allowing them to train as they fight—with support from Gray Eagles, Apaches, and Air Force assets at JBER and Eielson,” said Congressman Don Young. “I proudly supported the procurement of the Gray Eagle in this year and last year’s National Defense Authorization, so I was thrilled to learn they would be positioned at Ft. Wainwright.” “In an increasingly dangerous world, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) capability has never been in greater demand,” said Senator Sullivan. “Now more than ever, ground commanders need to see and understand the battlefield, and the Gray Eagle is a critical component for the U.S. Army to do that. Importantly, basing the Gray Eagle at Ft. Wainwright, near the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex (JPARC), will give the U.S. Army access to some of the world’s most expansive and robust training ranges. I am pleased to see a company of Gray Eagles on its way to Alaska, and I am hopeful that the U.S. Army will continue to see value in the benefits of Alaska’s great training ranges and strategic location, as the Senate Armed Services Committee already has.” ###
06.02.2015	06.02.15 Sullivan Votes in Support of USA FREEDOM Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in favor of H.R. 2048, the USA FREEDOM Act, which passed the U.S. Senate on a vote of 67-32. “Alaskans sent me to Washington to fight federal overreach, regardless of program or agency, and to protect the privacy of Alaskans,” said Senator Sullivan. “While my highest priority as U.S. Senator is protecting Americans – it must be done within the parameters of the law. A recent federal court of appeals held that a program executed under FISA provisions was operating outside of those parameters. After reviewing that opinion, in addition to relevant federal laws and other court opinions, I had serious concerns that the NSA’s bulk data collection was operating outside of the law. With that in mind, I was proud to cast my vote in support of the USA FREEDOM Act – legislation that will end the collection of bulk data by the federal government, while continuing to keep the public safe from growing national security threats.” ###
06.01.2015	06.01.15 Alaska, Washington state must work together As an American, a U.S. senator and an Alaskan, I’m deeply concerned with the security of our nation and the economic wellbeing of my state, much of which depends on continuing the historic and mutually beneficial relationship between Alaska and Washington state. That relationship is strained and put at risk when officials in Washington use Alaska’s economy as a platform to engage in political opportunism. I’m referring specifically to Seattle Mayor Ed Murray’s recent actions to attempt to block Shell’s Alaska drilling program by questioning the permit that allows Shell to use the Port of Seattle. Murray said he was doing so “to make a bold statement” about global warming. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, also lobbying to halt Alaska oil exploration, has asked the U.S. Department of the Interior to refrain from issuing any further lease sales for drilling off Alaska’s coast. While genuine concerns and actions to protect the environment are laudable, it is not laudable to use bold statements about the environment as a means for political grandstanding that could undermine economic opportunities for Alaska, Washington and the country. The mayor’s actions are being noticed, but it’s probably not the kind of notice that he and other state officials want. Recently, the Alaska state Legislature passed a resolution condemning Murray’s and Inslee’s actions, while highlighting the hypocrisy underlying them. Alaskan legislators — both Democrats and Republicans — suggested that if Washington’s politicians were really interested in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, they should start in their own backyard by protesting Boeing’s operations. The Alaska Legislature’s resolution noted “the closure of the Boeing production facilities would represent a reduction of 650 aircraft a year that otherwise would discharge more than 500,000 tons of carbon dioxide during the lifetimes of those aircraft and would provide a significant reduction in the release of pollutants into the atmosphere.” Closing Boeing — a great American company that employs almost 80,000 Washington residents — is certainly not something I advocate. To the contrary, our country needs more world-class companies like Boeing. But there is truth in the underlying message from Alaska’s Legislature, namely that it’s always easier to go after jobs in someone else’s state. But perhaps the worst part of all of this is how shortsighted the mayor and the governor are acting. In trying to hurt Alaska, they will end up hurting their own constituents. Alaska and Washington have had a very close relationship since our gold-rush days. My predecessor, U.S. Sen. Ted Stevens, worked closely with former Washington Sens. Henry “Scoop” Jackson and Warren Magnuson to help pass legislation to preserve, protect and enhance the commercial fishing industry in our states. Stevens, as chair of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, also steered significant federal funds to Sea-Tac International Airport and helped facilitate the expansion of the Port of Tacoma. Businesses and workers in Washington, including tens of thousands of Seattle’s residents, depend on a strong Alaska economy. A recent report conducted by the McDowell Group named “Ties that Bind” found that Alaskan industries accounted for 113,000 jobs in 2013 and generated $6.2 billion in wages in the Puget Sound region. According to a report conducted by the University of Alaska, offshore oil production in Alaska, all told, could produce 35,000 jobs and add billions of dollars to state and national tax bases. Washington would realize a good portion of that economic impact. Given recent actions, Alaskans are beginning to focus on building up our own port capacity so that we don’t need to rely on the whims of increasingly unreliable Washington politicians. Bottom line: Not only are the actions of Washington’s politicians potentially harmful to Alaskans, they threaten the well-being of Washington’s businesses, families, the fishing community and union members. Alaska has some of the highest environmental standards in the world. And as long as we need hydrocarbons to generate power for our cities, our cars and to fly Boeing airplanes, it is wise policy to ensure that we get our energy from America, employing American workers, while also maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection. We are all proud residents of two great states. And we are also proud citizens of the United States. Our great strength as a nation lies in our ability to eschew ideological and political extremes and work together for the common good. That’s what our states have done in the past, and that’s what we, Alaskans, are proposing for the future. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Juneau Empire
05.28.2015	05.28.15 Sullivan Applauds DOE Approval of Alaska LNG non-FTA Export License WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Energy announced the approval of Alaska LNG’s non-FTA export license. “I am pleased to see the Department of Energy approve this application. This project is not only critically important for Alaska’s future, but for the future of our country as well,” said Senator Sullivan. “Today’s news is a big milestone for the project, and will send a serious signal to the market that America is again open for business and poised to be an energy superpower, which would dramatically increase national and economic security.” “As I wrote to Secretary of Energy Moniz in February, ‘The project is a great opportunity to not only fuel our country’s own need for cleaner energy, but tap into the demand of an ever-growing Asia-Pacific consumer market. Given the overwhelming economic benefits this project would bring to Alaska and the nation, it is instrumental in fully unleashing America’s vast energy potential.’” “As Alaska's Department of Natural Resources Commissioner, I had the privilege of helping set the cornerstone of this project with the settlement of litigation at Point Thomson. I will use this news to raise the issue of Alaska LNG at meetings with senior economic and energy officials in Asia this week." Senator Sullivan is currently in Asia on a 5-day bipartisan Congressional Delegation visit to Vietnam and Singapore, continuing his focus on Asia-Pacific economic, security, and energy issues important to Alaska and the United States. ###
05.26.2015	05.26.15 Alaska Sen. Sullivan to join Sen. McCain on trip to Vietnam PHOENIX — Sen. John McCain is leading a U.S. Senate delegation that will visit Vietnam and Singapore this week. The Arizona Republican is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and his office says the trip is being made at a critical time for U.S. interests in the Asia-Pacific region. McCain's office says Sens. Jack Reed of Rhode Island, Joni Ernst of Iowa and Dan Sullivan of Alaska also are making the trip, while Sens. Cory Gardner of Colorado and Mazie Hirono of Hawaii will join the delegation in Singapore. According to McCain's office, the delegation plans to meet with government officials and others in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City while in Vietnam. The senators will participate in a meeting of defense ministers and other policy makers while in Singapore. By: Associated Press Source: Associated Press
05.26.2015	05.26.15 Sullivan Reacts to EPA’s Final WOTUS Rule WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released its final “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule. “With Alaska already home to more waters under the jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act than any other state in the country, the EPA’s attempt to expand the definition of what constitutes the Waters of the United States impacts no state more than my own,” said Sen. Sullivan. “After multiple hearings both in Washington and in Alaska, it is clear that Americans from vastly different industries, ideologies and regions are clearly opposed to the scope of this rule and the process through which it was crafted. Despite this strong opposition, and dubious legal authority, the EPA has chosen to disregard Congress, and move ahead with a rule that could severely impact the nation." “It is imperative that we move to quickly pass S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, bipartisan legislation that I co-sponsored, which would not only help to clarify jurisdiction and prevent unlawful federal overreach, but it would also help to ensure that the protection of Alaska’s precious resources remain in the hands of those who live near and rely on them.” Since arriving to the Senate in January of 2015, Senator Sullivan has worked aggressively, with a bipartisan group of colleagues in pushing back against this federal overreach. February 4th: Senator Sullivan challenged Administrator McCarthy at a joint EPW/House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing on where the EPA derives the legal authority to move forward with the WOTUS rule. April 6th: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a field hearing in Anchorage, Alaska to examine the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. April 8th: Senator Sullivan authors an ep-ed in the Fairbanks Daily News Miner on WOTUS. April 8th: Senator Sullivan, chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, held a field hearing in Fairbanks, Alaska to examine the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. April 30th: Senator Sullivan joined a bipartisan group of Senators, led by Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Joe Donnelly (D-ID), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Pat Roberts (R-KS), in introducing S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, legislation that would force the EPA to withdraw the rule and start over. May 19th: Senator Sullivan chaired an EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife legislative hearing on S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would force the EPA to withdraw the rule and start over. May 22nd: Senator Sullivan in addition to Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-OK) and Mike Rounds (R-SD) sent a letter to EPA Administrator McCarthy to express concerns and demand answers regarding a recent New York Times article that reported that the EPA may have conducted an unprecedented, and possibly illegal lobbying and marketing effort on behalf of the controversial WOTUS rule. ###
05.23.2015	05.23.15 Sullivan Applauds Passage of Trade Promotion Authority WASHINGTON, DC – This evening U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) voted with 61 of his Senate colleagues on final passage of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, also known as Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). The bill will grant the president authority, with congressional oversight, to work on trade agreements with Asian countries and other nations across the globe. “At a time when the economy desperately needs a boost, these agreements will help move our country forward by unlocking new opportunities for growth and expansion for our workers, from those in the high-tech sector to our ranchers, farmers and fishermen,” Senator Sullivan said. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimates that trade boosts the purchasing power of the average American household by $10,000 annually. It’s also been estimated that trade agreements that will be negotiated as a result of this Act will create hundreds of thousands of jobs for Americans. (Click here to watch Senator Sullivan’s floor speech on TPA) Trade is particularly important to Alaska, which, despite its small population, is an export powerhouse. Alaska is America’s number one exporter of fish and seafood products. In 2013, it’s estimated that Alaska exported $6.2 billion in goods and services. It’s also estimated that trade supports more than 90,000 jobs in Alaska. That means that more than 1 in 5 of all jobs in the state are trade related. “With solid trade agreements, Alaska will be able to export even more goods and get a better deal for those goods. And we’ll be able to attract increased foreign investment to the state, which will create more high-paying jobs. Such free trade agreements work when negotiated correctly. We will make sure they are,” Senator Sullivan said. “They work for the American consumer and for the American worker, and they also work to protect this country. Negotiating these trade agreements will signal to the world that America is again engaged, and will put us back in the driver’s seat. We’ll make sure that going forward, America, not countries like China, will write the rules for the 21st-Century global economic system.” ###
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Inhofe, Sullivan, Rounds Demand Answers on EPA’s “Unprecedented” Lobbying Effort of WOTUS WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), chairman of the Water, Fish, and Wildlife Subcommittee for the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW), along with U.S. Sens. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate EPW Committee and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), chairman of the Superfund, Waste Management, and Oversight Subcommittee, sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Adm. Gina McCarthy today to express concerns and demand answers regarding a recent New York Times article that reported that the EPA may have conducted an unprecedented, and possibly illegal lobbying and marketing effort on behalf of the controversial “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rulemaking. In the letter, the Senators wrote, “As you know, many of the rules that are being pushed by your agency are controversial – including the rule to expand the scope of ‘Waters of the United States’ under the Clean Water Act – and are expected to have devastating effects to the economies of many states, ours included. That’s why a majority of states have demanded that the ‘Waters of the United States’ rulemaking be retracted or substantially revised before being finalized.” Such opposition has been dismissed by the EPA, which has instead highlighted alleged public support for this rule. The EPA, along with groups supporting the rule, has consistently said that it has received more than one million comments on the rule, and has said that about 90 percent of those comments support the rule. “According to a May 19, 2015 New York Times article, the EPA embarked on unprecedented and questionable lobbying campaign to generate public comments in support of this rulemaking. EPA has used a variety of social media tools to promote the importance of the Agency’s rulemaking efforts and to solicit these comments, including, but not limited to ‘Thunderclap’ to create a ‘virtual flash mob,’ YouTube videos, and the ‘#CleanWaterRules’ and ‘#DitchtheMyth’ hashtags on Twitter,” wrote the Senators. “A deeper look at the “one million comment” claim shows a more complicated story,” the Senators wrote to Mrs. McCarthy. “According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, only 20,567 of those comments are considered ‘unique’ and of those, only 10 percent were considered substantive. “In other words, the vast majority—more than 98 percent of the comments received—appeared to be mass mailings, the majority of which were likely generated by your agency’s unprecedented lobbying efforts.” The letter sent to Administrator McCarthy demands that she answer a number of questions regarding the lobbying efforts led by the EPA, including how much staff time was spent generating the comments, how much taxpayer money went into generating them, and whether or not she received a legal opinion on the lobbying effort prior to her agency embarking on the unprecedented campaign. Read the full letter here. ###
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Alaska Delegation Welcomes News of Long Range Discrimination Radar Siting at Clear Air Force Station WASHINGTON, D.C. – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation today welcomed a major benchmark in Alaska’s military infrastructure presence, as the Pentagon informed them that Clear Air Force Station in Anderson has been proposed to be the future site of the Missile Defense Agency’s long range discrimination radar system (LRDR). The system – which is reported to be valued at $940 million worth of technology, hardware and on-site construction – will utilize cutting edge and proven 21st century technology to identify and track airborne missile threats against the United States. The construction work, estimated to be completed by 2020, can begin once an environmental impact study is conducted and the current design phase completed. “MDA Director Vice Admiral Syring was crystal clear in his testimony this March when he said that long range discrimination radar is a must have for the nation’s defense, and today’s news gets us closer to the end goal of the best defense possible from the most strategic position in the world,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski. “$50 million has already been allocated for the MDA to do design work on this critical project, but now that the location has been decided they can begin to plan out in more detail this major Alaskan investment for our national defense.” “I am greatly pleased with this announcement to station the Long Range Discriminating Radar at Clear Air Force Station,” Senator Dan Sullivan said. “Not only will this project – the very first of its kind – greatly improve the combat effectiveness of our nation’s missile defense system, but it will also bring hundreds of millions of dollars to Interior Alaska. Alaska has become the cornerstone of our nation’s missile defense, significantly benefiting both our state and our country. This is why, as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I worked to include $137.6 million for the LRDR in the recently reported FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act.” “MDA’s decision underscores Alaska’s unparalleled strategic location and helps solidify our role in strengthening America’s missile defense shield,” said Congressman Don Young. “With growing threats from both North Korea and Iran, it’s critical that this radar system be positioned in an area that covers both these nations; Clear Air Force Station offers that location. I’ve proudly worked with my colleagues in Congress to secure funding and authorization for this essential project, and look forward to seeing its completion in the coming years. Simply put, today’s announcement is a big win for Alaska and the entire nation.”
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Murkowski, Sullivan Bill Would Ensure Tribal Funding Program Stays Streamlined WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan have introduced legislation to strengthen Public Law 102-477 (referred to as the 477 program) by making its beneficial, streamlined process permanent – while also expanding its reach to more participating federal agencies. Almost $110 million is funded through 477 plans on an annual basis in 18 states throughout the nation. In Alaska, eleven regional tribal organizations participate in the tribal 477 program. 477 programs were created in 1992 to allow tribes to exercise their governmental authority to “integrate the employment, training and related services they provide in order to improve the effectiveness of those services, reduce joblessness in Indian communities and serve tribally determined goals consistent with the policy of self-determination.” This demonstration program has proven successful at pooling money from different federal agencies to fund identified worthwhile projects that would create jobs within native communities nationwide. Despite its effectiveness at breaking down agency borders for greater efficiency, some federal government bureaus have pushed back on the 477 program and sought to return to the older process where redundant requests and time-consuming administrative efforts were required to reach the same results. The legislation introduced by Alaska’s Senators would make the 477 program permanent, expand the types and sources of funding available, resolve plan approval and appeal processes, and ensure that funds will be transferred and require only one report. “Tribal leaders know better than anyone what works for communities in rural Alaska. The 477 program has been a success story for Alaska Natives and Native Americans, but there are common sense steps we can take to improve it,” said Senator Murkowski. “This program has proven an effective tool in support of tribal self-determination, and strengthening it is a crucial step in simply getting the government out of the way, so that these communities can move forward to improve their quality of life.” “The 477 Program has been a great success for over two decades, "said Senator Sullivan. "I’m proud to introduce legislation with Senator Murkowski that would not only make the program permanent, but would make it better for our tribal organizations. The 477 Program is the kind of effective, efficient, and streamlined program that works for the people on the ground and one which could serve as a model for others in the future.”
05.21.2015	05.21.15 SENATORS SCHATZ, MCCAIN, SULLIVAN CONDEMN CHINA’S CONSTRUCTION ON SPRATLY ISLANDS AND URGE MULTILATERAL RESOLUTION WITH ALL CLAIMANTS Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i), a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.), and U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) introduced a resolution condemning China’s construction of artificial land formations on the Spratly Islands and calling for a peaceful and multilateral resolution to the South China Sea territorial dispute. In recent years, China has aggressively constructed artificial islands in the South China Sea, violating customary and international law and a 2002 Code of Conduct which helps govern the region. Administration officials have said that these artificial islands are expected to support airstrips that will allow China’s military to land fighter jets and surveillance aircraft, adding a military dimension to an already tense regional dispute. With competing claims from five other nations, China’s provocative actions threaten to undermine regional stability. “China’s effort to unilaterally redraw the region’s maritime borders exacerbates the risks of misperceptions, accidents, and conflict,” said Senator Schatz. “Our bipartisan resolution makes clear that China needs to act responsibly. The United States is committed to promoting regional peace and stability, and protecting its interests and the interests of its partners and allies who have committed to addressing this dispute through a multilateral process.” “I am proud to co-sponsor this bill with Senator Schatz and Senator Sullivan that condemns China’s aggressive effort to reclaim new territory in the South China Sea,” said Senator McCain. “As we have heard in recent testimony from senior government officials, for the past two years China has rapidly added over 2,000 new acres of man-made features to bolster its claim to all of the South China Sea. Despite its commitment to peacefully resolve its maritime territorial disputes with its neighbors, experts tell us Beijing is likely to add runways, ports, logistics facilities, and offensive military capabilities to these features in the year ahead. The United States has a national interest in the South China Sea. We will continue to work with our allies and partners throughout the region to deepen our relationships and our mutual commitment to uphold peace and stability in this critical maritime highway.” “Over the past few months, I have become increasingly concerned about the escalatory nature of the situation in the South China Sea,” said Senator Sullivan. “As one the world’s key conduits of energy – nearly one-third of global crude oil and over half of global liquefied natural gas (LNG) passes through the South China Sea each year – it is imperative that this region remain peaceful and free of conflict. Today, I join my colleagues, Senator Schatz and Chairman McCain, in drawing additional attention to actions in the Spratly Islands, with the hope of ensuring continued stability in the South China Sea and the larger Asia-Pacific region.” According to recent reports, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter has begun considering sending U.S. Navy surveillance aircrafts and naval ships to the region to ensure freedom of navigation in the South China Sea. ###
05.20.2015	05.20.15 Sullivan Amendments in Defense Bill Highlight Arctic Role in Pacific Rebalance WASHINGTON, DC – Last week the Senate Armed Services Committee, with Senator Dan Sullivan’s (R-AK) support, passed out of committee legislation to authorize $612 billion in critical defense spending for the Fiscal Year 2016. “I was pleased to support this bipartisan legislation that will provide our service members with the funding they need to continue keeping our country safe,” Senator Sullivan said. “Over the last five months, I have heard from numerous senior defense officials about the increasing global security challenges faced by the United States. To counter new threats from ISIL, an aggressive Russia, and a nuclear-armed North Korea, this bill makes important modernization investments, cuts bureaucratic red tape at the Pentagon, and ensures our Armed Forces remain the most agile and lethal in the world.” In his first National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Sen. Sullivan successfully included seven amendments in the FY2016 bill. Working with Senators on both sides of the aisle, Senator Sullivan advanced initiatives that will play an important role in continuing to highlight Alaska’s strategic position in the Pacific and the Arctic. “In the Asia-Pacific region and the Arctic, world leaders are watching our actions – not just listening to our words,” said Senator Sullivan. “My amendments help send a clear message from Congress, to both our allies and adversaries, that the Pacific and the Arctic are areas that will be a focus of U.S. military strategy. A key aspect of preventing conflict is the ability to project a credible military power. My amendments seek to make the case that Alaska – and the squadrons, Brigade Combat Teams, and service members that reside here – continues to be an essential part of our forward-deployed military strength in the Arctic, Asia-Pacific, and Europe.” Sullivan Strategic Amendments: Requiring an Arctic Strategy and Operation Plan: This amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to detail a military strategy in the Arctic region and importantly requires a description of an Operation Plan for protection of U.S. national security interests in the Arctic. Additionally, this amendment requires the Department of Defense to identify and begin to mitigate capability, infrastructure and personnel gaps in the Arctic and asks for a plan to further enhance military-to-military cooperation with partner nations. The bill also includes a provision to identify emerging Russian capabilities and strategies in the Arctic. Maintaining the Credibility of the Rebalance to the Pacific: This amendment expresses the Sense of the Congress that, in order maintain a credible military strategy rebalance, the U.S. must continue to shift military forces to the Asia-Pacific region and should actually increase forces in the Pacific Theater, including Outside the Contiguous United States (OCONUS) operationally controlled by U.S. Pacific Command, which includes forces in Alaska. With the emphasis the Administration has placed on the Rebalance to the Asia-Pacific region, it is important that Congress continues to show unwavering support on this critical shift to our allies in the region. The amendment also expresses the Sense of the Congress that any decrease in military personnel, which would include forces in Alaska, would “seriously undermine the rebalance.” Supporting the Robust Use and Training of F-35As: This amendment expresses the Sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force should consider strategically significant criteria when basing forward deployed F-35As. These criteria – found in abundance in Alaska – include access to sufficient range capabilities and space for training, the ability to robustly train with our international partners, the presence of existing facilities to support operations, limited encroachment, and the minimization of costs. Other Alaska Related Amendments: Reducing High Cost of Energy at Military Bases: This amendment requires a much-needed report on the Department of Defense’s efforts to reduce the cost of energy at the top 20 percent of installations, like those in Alaska. This amendment also allows for the Department of Defense to work collaboratively with state and local authorities to find ways to bring down energy costs. This amendment should set the stage for the Department of Defense to bring its considerable resources to bear on the high cost of energy in places like Interior Alaska as the Department of Defense ramps up its military force structure in the region. Requesting Ground-Based Interceptors System Upgrade Report: This amendment requires the Commander of the United States Northern Command to set forth the status of current and planned efforts to improve the homeland ballistic missile defense capability of the United States and the ground infrastructure at Fort Greely. Promoting the Use of FAA-Licensed Spaceports: This amendment highlights the unique importance of spaceports like the Pacific Spaceport Complex-Alaska found on Kodiak Island to the national security space program. The Pacific Spaceport Complex – Alaska has supported numerous launches for Air Force Space Command including various national security launches. Advocating for the Innovative Readiness Training (IRT) Program: This amendment encourages the Department of Defense to continue to utilize the IRT program – which in recent years have been used in Alaska to fund Operation Arctic Care, runway improvements on Kodiak Island, and costal erosion mitigation in Newtok. Provisions included in the 2016 NDAA of Alaskan benefit and interest: “Importantly, by prioritizing funding for the modernization of critical initiatives like homeland defense and combat air power, the NDAA rightfully recognizes the importance of missile defense and the continued development and deployment of F-35s. Along these lines, this bill funds $400 million above the Department of Defense’s $8.1 billion request for missile defense, a significant portion of which will be invested in Alaska,” said Senator Sullivan. F-35: Includes $5.3 billion to procure 44 F-35As and keep the program on track. If Eielson Air Force Base is selected, the FY2017 Budget request will begin the process of funding some F-35As that will be deployed to Alaska. Missile Defense: Funds $400 million above the Department of Defense’s $8.1 billion budget request for missile defense programs. This funding includes $1.28 billion for the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) element of the Ballistic Missile Defense System. Much of the warfighting capabilities for GMD are located at Fort Greely, Alaska. Missile Defense Sensors: Includes $233.6 million for Missile Defense Sensors and $137.6 million for the Long Range Discriminating Radar (LRDR) which will be located in one of two locations in Alaska, Clear or Sheyma. Military Construction Funding for Three Interior Alaska Priorities: $37 million for a F-35A Flight Simulator at Eielson Air Force Base. $34 million for the repair and replacement of a boiler at Eielson Air Force Base’s central heat and power plant. $7.8 million for a Physical Readiness Training Facility at Fort Greely. ###
05.20.2015	05.20.15 Senators Sullivan, Schatz Work to Pass International Fisheries Bills out of Commerce Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Senate Commerce Committee unanimously approved several bills, including a group of international fisheries bills championed by U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Brian Schatz (D-HI). These include S. 1334, the Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing Enforcement Act; S. 1335, the North Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act; and S. 1336, the South Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act. “I am pleased to have worked with my fellow Commerce Committee member Senator Schatz on these important international fisheries bills -- and continue the bipartisan tradition that began under the leadership of the late Senators Ted Stevens and Daniel Inouye,” said Senator Sullivan. “Illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing is a global problem that has estimated economic costs of up to $23 billion annually. In Alaska, our iconic crab industry has led the fight against IUU fishing, because of the damaging affects these criminal activities have had on their industry, but many other fisheries are also impacted both in Alaska and nationwide. The increased and streamlined enforcement tools provided in S. 1334 will assist the Coast Guard and NOAA in curbing this criminal activity that threatens our domestic fishermen by endangering the health of our fisheries resources and distorting our markets.” “I thank Senator Sullivan for his work to combat pirate fishing,” said Senator Schatz. “Pirate fishing damages the environment and harms U.S. fishermen. With these bills, the Senate Commerce Committee has taken a strong bipartisan position to stand up against fishing vessels who break international law, and to refuse them access to U.S. ports and markets. U.S. fisheries are the best managed in the world, and our bills empower U.S. negotiators to press other nations to come up to our standards.” “The North Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act and the South Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act will rightfully give the United States a voice and assert our influence in both the fisheries management and conservation decisions in the respective high seas areas of the Pacific Ocean covered by these treaties,” said Senator Sullivan. “Doing so will provide opportunities for our fishermen in the future, and help to protect their current activities for generations to come.” S. 1334, which is sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and also co-sponsored by Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Ed Markey (D-MA), would implement the Port States Measures Agreement, and will increase enforcement capabilities of NOAA and the U.S. Coast Guard to combat IUU fishing throughout the United States. S. 1335, the North Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act, and S. 1336, the South Pacific Fisheries Convention Implementation Act, would implement treaties ratified by the Senate last year to manage certain North and South Pacific fisheries. Together, the three bills strengthen the international framework for keeping fisheries healthy, so that U.S. fishermen will always be a vibrant part of the coastal economy. ###
05.19.2015	05.19.15 Sullivan Holds EPW Subcommittee Hearing on WOTUS Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Fisheries, Water and Wildlife Subcommittee, today held a legislative hearing on S. 1140, the Federal Water Quality Protection Act. This bipartisan bill, co-sponsored by Sen. Sullivan, will ensure appropriate protection of waters under federal jurisdiction and will require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw the proposed Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule and issue a revised proposal, after consulting with states and other entities that were ignored the first time around. In April, Senator Sullivan held multiple field hearings in Alaska to examine the impacts of the EPA’s WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. (Click on the photo above to watch video from hearing) At today’s hearing, Senator Sullivan once again stated his opposition to the WOTUS rule noting that “Three-fifths of the states oppose the proposed rule along with more than 300 trade groups and associations from across the country. While it is Congress’s job to prevent this massive expansion of federal jurisdiction, we must do it in a way that protects our waters and allows states the opportunity to fulfill their roles as co-regulators under the Clean Water Act.” Already, a huge percentage of Alaska’s waters are under federal control. Sixty percent of the nation’s jurisdictional waters are in Alaska. But if the WOTUS rule is enacted, it appears that EPA’s jurisdiction will increase significantly, making it all the more burdensome to do business in Alaska. The Federal Water Quality Protection Act (S. 1140) will “not only help to clarify jurisdiction and prevent unlawful federal overreach,” Sen. Sullivan said. But it will also “help to ensure that the protection of Alaska’s precious resources remain in the hands of those who live near and rely on them.” During the hearing, Senator Sullivan also examined the views of a diverse group of stakeholders from across the country on S. 1140. Below are excerpts from their testimony: Susan Metzger, Assistant Secretary, Kansas Department of Agriculture, testified: “With this legislation, the States, as primary implementers of the Clean Water Act, will play a more appropriate and necessary role in crafting a rule that clearly defines Waters of the United States. S.1140 recognizes the shortcomings of the original engagement put forth by the Federal agencies by promoting renewed Federalism and proper coordination with the States before publication of the rule.” Mark Pifher, Manager Southern Delivery System, Colorado Springs Utility, testified: “The Federal Water Quality Protection Act is an honest, thoughtful attempt to provide EPA and the Army Corps with clear Congressional direction as they fulfill their mission of implementing the Clean Water Act, an Act whose goals we all support. NWRA supports S.1140 and looks forward to working with this Committee and others, including the agencies, in an attempt to “get the rule right” this time. This is too important an issue to either act upon in haste or attempt to resolve through endless litigation. Robert Pierce, Wetland Training Institute, Inc., in Maryland testified: “I fully support the goals of S.1140 to restore the proper relationship between the federal and state authorities and responsibilities for aquatic and land resources in the Nation as specified in Section 101(b) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 commonly referred to since 1977 as the Clean Water Act.” ###
05.19.2015	05.19.15 Bill to Combat Sex Trafficking Headed to President’s Desk House Passes the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which includes Sullivan’s Mann Act Cooperation Amendment WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which includes Sen. Sullivan’s Mann Act Cooperation amendment. “I’m extremely pleased that once again, Congress is proving that it’s working hard for the people, particularly the most vulnerable among us,” said Sen. Sullivan. “Human trafficking is a scourge. This legislation will help protect victims and bring those who commit these heinous crimes to justice.” Background on Sen. Sullivan’s Mann Act Cooperation Amendment: Senator Sullivan’s amendment allows and encourages federal prosecutors to work with state officials to prosecute Mann Act violations-- the federal law that makes it a criminal offense to transport someone between states for the purpose of prostitution and human trafficking--while increasing transparency. The goal of this amendment is to enable the resources and cooperation between state and federal prosecutors to ensure all cases of human trafficking are pursued, and victims have justice. The amendment was co-sponsored by Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK). “When I was Alaska’s attorney general, there was a high-profile case that my department petitioned the federal government to prosecute under the Mann Act, but it never happened and justice was denied,” Sen. Sullivan said after S. 178 passed the U.S. Senate in April. The bill now awaits the president’s signature. ###
05.11.2015	05.11.15 Sullivan Comments on Conditional DOI Approval of Shell’s 2015 Exploration Plan ANCHORAGE, AK – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Interior today conditionally approved Shell Oil Company’s revised offshore Alaska Exploration Plan for 2015. “I’m pleased to hear that the Department of Interior conditionally approved Shell’s Revised Chukchi Sea Exploration Plan,” said Sen. Sullivan. “As I said to Department of Interior Secretary Sally Jewell during a February meeting, the federal government needs to work with the states and with private industry to unleash our country’s enormous economic potential and become the world’s energy super-power. For years, the Obama administration has stymied efforts to achieve this important national goal through regulatory delays and restricting access to federal lands in Alaska. I hope that this announcement is a new approach by the federal government. The Department of Interior and Shell still have work to do before any exploratory drilling occurs in the Arctic this summer, but today’s news is a positive step.” ###
05.07.2015	05.07.15 Sullivan Votes in Support of Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in favor of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act: “Despite a limited amendment process that prohibited votes on amendments which would have strengthened this legislation, I voted in support of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act,” Senator Sullivan said. “I did so because the American people, through their representatives in Congress, deserve an opportunity to debate one of the most significant national security issues of our time. Going forward, I can assure Alaskans that I will always remember that my primary responsibility is to keep the country safe, and I’ll be diligent in my oversight responsibilities.” ###
05.06.2015	05.06.15 Sullivan Grills U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service Director Ashe on ANWR WASHINGTON, DC – During a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing today to examine the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s (FWS) FY2016 budget, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) pressed FWS Director Ashe on the Obama administration’s announcement in January to recommend for Wilderness designation nearly all of the remaining non-Wilderness portions of 19.6 million acre Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), including the Coastal Plain or 1002 area. During a round of questioning, Senator Sullivan explained that the federal government does not have the power to manage the 1002 area of ANWR as if it is Wilderness, without Congressional authorization. How can the Administration “manage the 1002 area for wilderness when you don’t have the authority to do that?” Sen. Sullivan asked. “Can you explain that to me? This is a huge issue for my state. And I think you’re violating the law—I think the President is violating the law.” Sen. Sullivan continued to drill down on the issue, asking if the FWS would consider it legal for a future president to manage the area for resource development. “(i)f there is a Republican president in 2017, and he submits legislation to develop the 1002 area for oil and gas development, it doesn’t go anywhere….. Can that president say: I’m now going to manage the 1002 area for oil and gas development?” Director Ashe said that the president would not have the legal authority to take such action. In addition to his questions on ANWR, Sen. Sullivan will submit follow-up questions for the record to Director Ashe on a number of important FWS issues facing Alaska, such as the King Cove Road, Endangered Species Act implementation, federal wildlife management, and other issues. He also put out a call to all Alaskans asking them to send their suggested questions for Director Ashe to EPW_QUESTIONS@SULLIVAN.SENATE.GOV by May 15th, 2015. ###
05.05.2015	05.05.15 Sullivan Votes In Support of Budget Conference Report WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting in support of the Budget Conference Report, which passed on a vote of 51-48. “Today I was pleased to vote for a budget that will curb out-of-control spending, ensure a strong national defense, protect Social Security, strengthen Medicare, all without raising taxes on hardworking Alaskans,” Sen. Sullivan said. “Under the previous Senate majority, the Senate kicked the can on tough decisions, passing only one budget in six years. The most basic function of government – putting together a budget – was ignored while the county racked up trillions of dollars of debt. This budget focuses on the most basic component that has been lacking over the past several years – truly growing our economy. Getting back to traditional levels of American economic growth is the best way to tackle our national fiscal challenges, to help keep our country safe, and to make sure that opportunities for future generations of Americans aren’t buried under a mountain of national debt.” Budget by the Numbers: $5+ trillion in savings $32 billion surplus in 2024, $24 billion surplus in 2025, and stays in balance in the out-years $400 billion in additional economic growth over the next 10 years, according to CBO 1.2 million additional jobs over the next 10 years, based on CBO data 2001 – Restores the trust of hard-working taxpayers by passing the first joint 10-year balanced budget resolution since 2001 ###
04.30.2015	04.30.15 Sullivan Introduces Amendment to Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act Amendment Will Make Overall Bill Stronger, Country More Secure WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) spoke on the Senate floor today about his amendment to the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (S.615), which would limit sanctions relief until Iran is determined to no longer be a state sponsor of terrorism. In his speech, Senator Sullivan posed a simple question: Is it good policy for the United States of America to allow, or even encourage countries and corporations to do business with a state sponsor of terrorism, particularly one that has a history of targeting American citizens? (To view Sen. Sullivan’s floor speech on his amendment, click here) “I believe that if posed that way to the American people—Democrat, Republican, any state in the union… they would overwhelmingly say, ‘No,’” Senator Sullivan said. Senator Sullivan concluded by answering to critics of those offering common-sense amendments to S. 615, and urged his colleagues to support his amendment. “I believe if the question is posed to directly to the American people, they wouldn’t consider it a poison pill,” Senator Sullivan said. “They might even consider it a kind of vitamin pill, a supplement that will make us stronger.” ###
04.29.2015	04.29.15 Sullivan Applauds Japanese Prime Minister Abe’s Address to Congress WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after attending Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s historic joint address to Congress: “Today, Prime Minister Abe delivered a powerful and heartfelt message to Congress about the strong ties between our two countries,” Sen. Sullivan said. “From my meeting with him earlier this month, I know firsthand that his resolute commitment to strengthening the U.S.-Japan alliance goes well beyond his words. Japan’s investment in the rebalance of U.S. forces to Guam – $2.8 billion – and his words about the Trans-Pacific Partnership being an important part of our shared security relationship in the Pacific, cannot be understated. I appreciated Prime Minister Abe’s historic joint address to Congress, and I look forward to working with him to advance the aims of both our countries and to continue the decades-long economic and energy relationship between Japan and Alaska, and the significant opportunities that exist for increasing exports of LNG from Alaska to Japan.” Prime Minister Abe’s address to Congress comes less than a month after Senator Sullivan visit to Japan – where he met with the Japanese Prime Minister. On Monday, Senator Sullivan met with Japanese Minister of Defense Nakatani to discuss the new U.S.-Japan security guidelines. ###
04.26.2015	04.26.15 Standing tall against sex trafficking: Sen. Dan Sullivan crafted worthy amendment to bill targeting sex trade Fairbanks Daily News-Miner editorial: Sex trafficking is a difficult issue to confront. It’s hard to think about people being placed in such a position, much less talk about it and develop effective strategies to combat it. Therefore, it’s heartening the U.S. Senate, in a rare show of bipartisanship, came together this week to pass legislation aimed at protecting victims of sex trafficking and making punishing the perpetrators of such crimes more effective. Kudos especially to Sen. Dan Sullivan, who added an amendment that will give Alaska and other states the power to pursue interstate cases when the U.S. Justice Department won’t. The sex trafficking bill is surprisingly wide-ranging for a piece of legislation passed by a unanimous 99-0 vote. It will give new resources to law enforcement agents pursuing sex trafficking cases, as well as set up a fund with fees from convicted sex traffickers to help victims. Aiding in the bill’s bipartisan support was the ability of the Republican majority to keep members of their caucus from attaching amendments not in line with its intent: Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Alabama, wanted to attach language relating to illegal immigration, but was convinced by party leadership doing so would endanger a worthy bill. Sen. Sullivan’s amendment was one of particular relevance to Alaska. It will allow states to pursue legal action against sex traffickers transporting victims across state lines when federal officials decline to prosecute. It’s an issue Sen. Sullivan encountered in a famous case during his tenure as the state’s attorney general in 2010. At that time, the U.S. Justice Department announced it would not prosecute former Veco executive Bill Allen, who state and federal authorities had investigated for sex trafficking of minor girls. With federal authorities unwilling to act, Sullivan had no recourse at the state level because interstate sex trafficking was the sole jurisdiction of the federal government under the Mann Act. Sen. Sullivan’s amendment would allow the U.S. Justice Department to hand such cases off to the states involved — and require them to explain why if they decline to do so. There may not be many instances in which the state’s new power to prosecute such cases comes into effect. But it’s good for that option to be available, and even one case that could be pursued under the new authority would make Sen. Sullivan’s amendment worthwhile. Thanks to the U.S. Senate for an all-too-rare instance of bipartisan cooperation on a good bill, and especially to Sen. Sullivan for applying his experience as attorney general to implement a law change that could well make a difference for Alaska and other states. By: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner Editorial Board Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Sullivan Votes Against Loretta Lynch Confirmation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after voting against the nomination of Loretta Lynch to be attorney general for the United States. “I applaud Ms. Lynch’s impressive background, including her many years of public service as a federal prosecutor. However, the most important question a nominee for attorney general has to definitively answer and demonstrate is whether his or her principal responsibility is to uphold the rule of law and Constitution or to defend the president’s policies,” Sen. Sullivan said. “In her public testimony and in a private meeting with me, Ms. Lynch has been unconvincing that she would put the law and the Constitution above defending the president’s policies, many of which I believe have undermined the separation of powers.” “This is a particularly important issue in Alaska, where the Obama administration has used federal overreach, dubious legal authority and federal agency action to lock up millions of acres of Alaska land, which threatens the future of the people of my state. For these reasons, I could not support Ms. Lynch’s nomination for the attorney general of the United States.” ###
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Sen. Dan Sullivan explains his views on the Iran deal and why Last week in an op-ed about the Iranian nuclear deal, Juneau resident Richard Moniak raised questions about an earlier column I wrote in this paper, and about the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s recent passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015, which I co-sponsored. If the act passes in both the House and the Senate, it will allow Congress to have an up-or-down vote on an eventual nuclear arms agreement with Iran — one of the most significant national security issues facing America in a generation. As a public official, I am accustomed to criticisms of my views and policy positions. Indeed, I welcome them. Unfortunately, it’s impossible for me to respond to every article or letter to the editor written about me or the policy positions I have taken. But the issue about which Mr. Moniak writes — whether or when Iran, the world’s biggest state sponsor of terrorism, obtains a nuclear weapon — is so important, and some of his claims so inaccurate, that I felt compelled to respond. But first, I’d like to compliment Mr. Moniak. He obviously cares enough about this important issue to put pen to paper and articulate his views in public, for which he will surely be criticized. An engaged American public on matters of national security is critical to our democracy. His op-ed is an admirable example on that score. At the same time, his op-ed airbrushes this important issue of public involvement on critical natural security matters. The first sentence of his piece states: “This week President Barack Obama agreed to sign a revised version of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act.” The truth is that the president had been threatening to veto this act for weeks, and only “agreed” to sign it after it became clear that a veto-proof bipartisan majority of U.S. senators, myself included, would override the president’s attempts to keep the public from weighing in on his deal with Iran through their representatives in Congress. That Congress must be involved was the key point of my original Juneau Empire column on Iran, as evidenced by its title: “Congress should have a say in any nuclear weapons deal between the US and Iran.” And now we will have a say; not because the president “agreed,” but because a bipartisan group of senators forced his hand. Second, Mr. Moniak questions whether Iran was involved at all in killing and maiming U.S. troops in Iraq. He wonders what I saw during my “brief tours” in Iraq in 2005-2006 as a Marine Corps staff officer to the commanding general of U.S. Central Command, (CENTCOM) Gen. John Abizaid, and why that is “relevant” now. He is correct that my tours in Iraq were brief, as were my tours in Afghanistan and other countries in the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and Central Asia during that time. But I certainly saw that one of the most pressing issues in Iraq was the growing threat of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), especially Explosively Formed Projectiles, or EFPs, the most deadly and sophisticated IED on the battlefield. Almost every time I was in Iraq with General Abizaid, he and his staff were briefed in detail on this threat, showing captured weapons systems and the twisted, charred remains of destroyed American vehicles hit by EFPs. Those EFPs killed more troops per attack than other roadside bombs. They blasted through tanks, Humvees, anything that they hit. They were deadly. According to the Wall Street Journal, one former U.S. general estimates that EFPs resulted in nearly 1,500 deaths of U.S. troops in Iraq. Mr. Moniak wants to know what I saw in Iraq: I saw the trepidation and courage in the eyes of our brave military members who had to face this deadly threat on a daily basis. To this day, I loathe and deeply distrust the leadership of the country that was responsible for these EFPs. Make no mistake: that country was Iran. Mr. Moniak cites General Abizaid’s 2006 Senate testimony in front of the Senate Armed Services Committee, claiming that the general said that he had no proof that EFPs were coming from Iran. That’s not true. I should know. I was sitting behind the general at that hearing. Specifically, General Abizaid said that “sophisticated bomb making material from Iran has been found in improvised explosive devices in Iraq.” In a later 2006 hearing, Abizaid said that it was “clear” that IEDs, supplied by Iranian Revolutionary Guard Quds, were moving from Iran to Iraq. By 2007, the evidence was overwhelming that EFPs used to kill our troops in Iraq were supplied by Iran. CENTCOM and intelligence officials held briefings with reporters laying out the evidence. Major news outlets ran comprehensive stories on these briefs. The State Department confirmed as much in 2009, and by 2011, the former U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, who was appointed by President Obama, said that “there is no doubt,” that these Iranian weapons were being deployed in Iraq. Finally, Mr. Moniak takes issue with my statement that Iran has “consistently cheated on its nuclear commitments under the U.N.” He cites 2012 testimony from Director of National Intelligence James Clapper Jr., who said that intelligence officials don’t know if Iran will eventually decide to build a nuclear bomb. But that’s not the same issue as whether Iran has adhered to the 1970 nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which it is a signatory to, and to U.N. Security Council Resolutions about its nuclear program. In 2010, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that Iran has “violated the terms” of the agreement, and has “not complied” with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). More recently, the IAEA says that Iran is possibly in violation of the treaty and the country continues to thwart the U.N. Security Council’s resolutions and refuses to make public its complete program. Just last month, Yukiya Amano, IAEA’s director-general said, “We are still not in a position to conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is (for a) peaceful purpose. … Progress has been very limited in clarifying issues with possible military dimensions.” As noted, I appreciate Mr. Moniak’s desire to engage with the public on this critically important issue. He believes that Iran continues to try to “resolv(e) this issue peacefully.” However, if someone is going to defend the Iranian regime, as Mr. Moniak appears to be doing, they need to have their facts straight. For me, the bottom line is that I don’t trust Iran’s leadership. And from my years working on these issues — as a U.S. Marine officer in the Middle East, as a U.S. assistant secretary of state who helped lead efforts to encourage our allies to economically isolate Iran, and now from the information I’ve received as a U.S. senator — I have good reason not to. My job is to keep my state and my country safe from declared enemies of the United States, like Iran. I’ll continue to lay out the facts in order to do so. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Juneau Empire
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Sen. Dan Sullivan: Team of Apache helicopters likely moving to Fairbanks ANCHORAGE — Twenty-four AH-64 Apache attack helicopters and their crews likely are headed to Fort Wainwright, U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan said Tuesday. Roughly 400 personnel also will be headed to the Army post in Fairbanks, Sullivan said in a written statement. The plan is “pre-decisional” and pending environmental impact statements and approval by the secretary of the Army, said Sullivan’s press secretary, Mike Anderson. According to Defense News, at defensenews.com, the Army’s assistant deputy chief of staff for operations, Maj. Gen. Gary Cheek, told reporters in Washington, D.C., on April 14 that Apache helicopters from Germany are set to be transferred to Fort Wainwright. In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Sullivan had questioned Cheek about the Arctic and what Sullivan described as increased Russian military activity in the region, Defense News reported. “The Pacific and the Arctic are critically important regions to our national security and the decision to bring the AH-64 Apache to Fort Wainwright reflects that,” Sullivan said in the statement. “I am excited to see what the highly mobile and lethal platform can do in Alaska’s (training areas) with its arsenal of Hellfire missiles and a 30mm automatic gun.” Sullivan, R-Alaska, said a company of a dozen MQ-1C Gray Eagle unmanned aerial vehicles would be paired with the Apaches. Defense News reported that it remained unclear where in Alaska the UAV’s would be stationed. Sullivan praised the Army’s consideration of stationing the aircraft in Alaska, considering the 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team, or BCT, at Fort Wainwright and the 4th Brigade Combat Team is at JBER. “Pairing 24 of the most advanced aerial fighting vehicles in the world with the (intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) capabilities of the soon-to-arrive Gray Eagle company shows that the Army understands how valuable and Alaska’s training ranges are,” Sullivan stated. “I am hopeful that the Army will use this same wisdom and keep both BCTs in Alaska as our state is rapidly becoming the home for much needed combat power in the Pacific.” By: Casey Grove Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Sullivan’s Amendment to Human Trafficking Bill Passes Senate WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in a unanimous vote (99-0), the U.S. Senate passed S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which included U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan’s (R-AK) Mann Act Cooperation amendment. Before the vote, Senator Sullivan urged his colleagues to support his amendment. “What this amendment will do is increase prosecutions of human trafficking without an increase of cost to the federal government,” said Sen. Sullivan. “It allows and encourages federal prosecutors to work with state officials to prosecute Mann Act violations while increasing transparency. The goal of this amendment is to enable the resources and cooperation between state and federal prosecutors to ensure all cases of human trafficking are pursued, and victims have justice.” Senator Sullivan’s bipartisan amendment, co-sponsored by Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), will free up federal resources by allowing and encouraging state attorneys general and local district attorneys to prosecute cases under the Mann Act – the federal law that makes it a criminal offense to transport someone between states for the purpose of prostitution and human trafficking. Additionally, the amendment preserves federal prosecutors’ ability to exercise prosecutorial discretion, while at the same time, increasing transparency in Mann Act cases by requiring the federal government to provide a detailed explanation if they deny a state attorney general’s request to prosecute a Mann Act violation. “When I was Alaska’s attorney general, there was a high-profile case that my department petitioned the federal government to prosecute under the Mann Act, but it never happened and justice was denied,” Sen. Sullivan said after the vote. “I’m pleased that my colleagues supported this amendment to empower states to seek justice for all victims.”
04.17.2015	04.17.15 SEN. SULLIVAN DISCUSSES NUCLEAR AGREEMENT WITH IRAN Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I wish to say a few words on the nuclear agreement that is being negotiated with Iran. I will start by commending the members of the Foreign Relations Committee, particularly Senator Corker, the chairman of that committee. They moved the Corker-Menendez bill through the committee a few days ago with a unanimous vote. It was very important work. It is a good start to a critically important topic for the American people. I know it was a struggle. We read about what happened in the press. But it is important to recognize that it was a struggle that should not have been. The Obama administration put tremendous pressure on Members of this body--Democratic Members of this body--not to allow the U.S. Senate to have any say on this issue, one of the most important foreign policy issues facing the country right now. They did not want the American people to have a voice. In fact, last month when the bill was released, the President vowed to veto it. He backed off only when it was clear that members of the committee, Republicans and Democrats, stood firm against the President and with the American people. Then the President knew he would fail and his veto threat would likely be overridden. So the President, under pressure, dispatched Secretary of State John Kerry, a former Member of this body, to give me and my colleagues here in the Senate a closed-door preview of these negotiations in this framework agreement. I sat through the meeting and had some discussions with the Secretary. It was useful, but think about it--it was a closed-door briefing. Why not involve the American people? This is not an issue which is about the Senate or the Congress per se, as we often read in the paper. This is an issue about the American people, who have a voice through us, their representatives in Congress, and should have a say on one of the most critical foreign policy issues facing the United States right now. And, remember, we know this. We were sent here. The people are wise. The citizens of this country are wise. They understand national security. Many of them are in the military. Many of them have sons and daughters in the military. Many of them are veterans. They know what sacrifice is. They know what national security is. They sent us here so their voices could be heard, particularly on issues of national security and on issues of the security of the country they love. Make no mistake, Americans are overwhelmingly interested in making sure that they, through their representatives in Congress, have a say in this important deal. A recent USA TODAY-Suffolk University poll showed that a whopping 72 percent of Americans think Congress should have a role in approving the nuclear negotiations with Iran. What is very interesting about this is that once upon a time, even President Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry, and former Senator Clinton all believed this body should have a role in such important agreements. They said Congress should approve any sweeping deals. In 2007 and 2008, they cosponsored a bill that required congressional approval of any long-term security commitment President Bush made to Iraq. Vice President Biden--then-Senator Biden--put it then: The president cannot make such a sweeping commitment on his own authority. Congress must grant approval. Those were wise words then, and I believe they are wise words today. Why is that? One reason is that when the executive branch and the Congress work together, we are stronger on issues of foreign policy and national security. Think about all of the different times in which this body, through treaties and other agreements, worked with Presidents of both parties--bipartisan--to make sure we were speaking strongly together on critical issues of national security. I served under Condoleezza Rice as an Assistant Secretary of State and worked on these kinds of issues--sanctions on Iran and terrorist finance issues--and I saw that when the executive branch worked with the Congress, we were stronger. As I mentioned, when then-Senator Biden mentioned these words about congressional approval, they were wise words. Yet, now the Vice President, Secretary Kerry, and President Obama--all former Members of this body--are ignoring their own previous advice and previous wisdom, and they are ignoring the American people in the process through their representatives in Congress. Where does that leave us today? My own view is that the President should have reached out to the Congress from the very beginning and said that he wanted to work with us and have our approval on this important agreement so we could be stronger as a country, the executive branch and the Congress working together, unified, to enhance America's national security. The President should have looked to the Congress and the Constitution when considering this potential agreement--whether the biggest state sponsor of terrorism in the world should get a nuclear weapon and when--and realized this was an important enough national security issue and said: I am going to submit this as a treaty. He should have been willing to make the case to the American people and convince two-thirds of the Senate to vote for this agreement, as required by the Constitution. But he chose another path. He chose the ``go it alone'' path where even just a few weeks ago the administration signaled that it was not going to show the agreement--the key annexes of this agreement--to the Congress and that any attempts to force him to do so would be vetoed. That was a mistake. That is a mistake, and we are starting to change that. In these kinds of matters, the U.S. State Department urges any administration--Republican or Democratic--to [Page: S2257] GPO's PDF use the utmost caution when deciding how to deal with international treaties on key foreign policy issues and the Congress. I have a quote from the State Department guidelines: In determining whether any international agreement should be brought into force as a treaty or as an international agreement other than a treaty, the utmost care is to be exercised to avoid any invasion or compromise of the constitutional powers of the President, the Senate, and the Congress as a whole. That is the State Department--``the utmost care.'' But the Obama administration did not take the utmost care in this matter. In fact, their goal has been to shut out the American people on this deal. So what are we doing? The Congress is having to force the President to let the American people be heard. That is what we are doing, and I believe in many ways that is sad. The President is clearly not abiding by the advice he gave when he was a Senator on these kinds of issues, and neither is the Vice President, so the Congress acted. The Corker-Menendez bill that passed the Foreign Relations Committee, which will be debated soon on this floor, at least gives us an up-or-down vote, and it will enable us to actually see some of the classified annexes that are part of this agreement. Again, it is not us, it is the American people. It is the people we represent. I urge my colleagues to practice what the State Department has said is the utmost care on these kinds of issues. We need to look hard at whatever agreement is finalized and brought to this body, and we need to work hard to cut through the clutter and opaque language, unclear language, and conflicting views of this agreement--the way in which this administration is describing this deal right now. I will give one example. Let's take the phrase ``snapped back.'' Right now, the American people are being told that if Iran violates the terms of this agreement, the sanctions, which have been key to this entire agreement and imposed on Iran by this body four different times, can quickly and automatically be snapped back. That is a fantasy. President Obama knows that sanctions--particularly international sanctions--cannot just be snapped back. But it is a great phrase. It sounds good, but it is a fantasy. As I mentioned, as a former Assistant Secretary of State, I worked with the Congress and other members of the executive branch to go around to different countries in the world and strongly encourage them to divest out of Iran, out of the Iranian oil and gas sector. In many ways, we said: If you don't take action and divest out of Iran, it is very likely that the Congress will sanction you. We worked with the Congress. This was executive branch and congressional branch cooperation, making us stronger as a nation because it worked. Many of these companies started to divest. It weakened Iran, but this took years. There was no snap involved. This was a slog, but it was successful. It was successful because this body was very intimately involved. The President knows this. Secretary Kerry knows this. But the fact that they are willing to say ``Don't worry, sanctions will be snapped back in an instant'' should otherwise make us all nervous. The administration needs to explain to the American people how this snapback will work. Think about it. If sanctions are lifted, millions, probably billions of dollars are going to flow from European companies, countries; Asian companies, countries; Russian; Chinese. They are going to flow into Iran. They are going to invest in businesses. They are going to invest in the oil and gas sector. They are going to invest in banks. And then we are going to snap that back if there is a violation, automatically, in a couple of days? It is not going to happen. It is a catchy phrase with no substance. The administration needs to explain it. The American people need to know what is at stake. The Secretary and the President need to be clear with the American people on exactly what is in this agreement. They need to level with the American people. As we move forward, as we think about how we are going to analyze, look at, vote on this agreement, they must tell the American people the truth. We must start to think about some of these issues. Let's start with a couple of things that are very important for the American people to know, and the American people do know them. Let's start by recognizing that Iran is the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism. Let's recognize that Iran has consistently lied and cheated with regard to its nuclear weapons program, including even recently, during these negotiations. Let's recognize that Iran will not--will not--stand down from its stated goal that many of its leaders still state today, which is that they want to wipe Israel off the map. Let's recognize that Iran is responsible--and this is very important to recognize and understand--for the maiming and killing of likely thousands of U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines in Iraq by supplying Shia militias there with the most sophisticated, the most lethal IED on the battlefield, called an EFP, an explosively formed projectile. If a person was in Iraq as a U.S. military member and that person was in a vehicle that hit one of these IEDs, that person was either going to be killed or seriously maimed. This is something I witnessed during my time as a staff officer to the commanding general of the U.S. Central Command when I was in Iraq as a marine. Let's recognize that from what we know right now in terms of this deal, Iran doesn't appear to have given up much at all. They will keep thousands of nuclear centrifuges. They will keep their missile development programs. They will keep their nuclear infrastructure. They will continue to support and sponsor terrorism around the world--the largest state sponsor of terrorism. The American people need to know that if we do lift sanctions--and it is not clear when we are going to lift them; the Iranians are saying we are going to lift them right away--if we do lift sanctions, Iran will very likely use the millions of dollars that will flood into their economy to pump up their terror machine around the world and likely target our citizens. The American people need to understand all of this as we go forward. Maybe the administration disagrees on some of these points. Maybe they don't think these points are the aspects of the deal. And if none of this is true, then let Secretary Kerry and his team come forward to the Congress and make the case in public to the American people that this isn't the case, that this is a deal which will keep us safe, that this is a deal with a regime that is trustworthy. Let them make that case. The Congress needs to be very involved, and we are involved because of the respect for the people we represent. Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
04.14.2015	04.14.15 Sullivan Supports “Doc Fix” Legislation, Applauds Secure Rural School Extension WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today voted in support of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act. The legislation, which passed on a vote of 92-8, will permanently fix Medicare's outdated physician payment system. The bill also extends a program to help rural schools and continues funding for both Community Health Centers and the Children’s Health Insurance Program or CHIP. The bill, known as the “Doc Fix,” will replace an outdated formula from 1997 that ties Medicare doctors' reimbursement rates to spending growth. The new formula will focus more on quality of care. “This bill is good for Alaska seniors and will help ensure that they get the care they need,” said Sen. Sullivan. “Because of instability and rising costs, it’s getting more difficult for our seniors in Alaska to find doctors who accept Medicare patients. This bill will help give those providers the stability they need to treat our seniors.” The bill also extends the Secure Rural Schools program, first implemented in 2000, which requires the U.S. Forest Service to make payments to communities that have been impacted by a decline in timber sales on federal lands. “I’m proud to have voted to provide much-needed funding to rural communities in Southeast Alaska who have been impacted by severely declining federal timber harvests,” said Sen. Sullivan. “I’m also proud to be part of a body that after a long time of inaction, is getting to work for the American people.” H.R. 2 will also continue funding for 160 Community Health Centers in Alaska, making up over 10 percent of Community Health Centers in the nation. Such centers serve the underserved populations throughout the state. In some areas in the state, the local Health Center is the only health-care presence available. ###
04.14.2015	04.14.15 Alaska Delegation: F-16s to Stay Put Because “America Needs Eielson” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation received good news today, as U.S. Air Force Secretary Deborah James called each of them to announce that the F-16 Aggressor Squadron will remain at Eielson Air Force Base for the long-term future. When the U.S. Air Force announced that Eielson was the preferred location for two squadrons of F-35s, it began a nationwide review of whether the F-16s should stay there after the arrival of the F-35s or be considered for moves to either Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage or Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. “America needs Eielson, and America needs Alaska now more than ever with our westward focus and increased aggression by rogue nations like North Korea, Russia and Iran,” said Senator Murkowski. “Though the two squadrons of F-35s headed to Eielson gave the Pentagon a reason to re-evaluate the distribution of their assets, we once again feel vindicated that our state, our welcoming military community, our location, and our natural environmental assets make Alaska second to none.” "Today’s announcement is great news for Eielson, for Alaska, and for the security of our nation. Given Russia’s recent resurgence and Putin’s aggressive moves into the Arctic, keeping the 18th Aggressors at Eielson is more important than ever,” said Senator Sullivan. “Many decades ago, General Billy Mitchell noted Alaska’s unique strategic location. I am greatly pleased to see the Air Force heed his advice and go all-in on Alaska. With our training ranges, our location, and our love of those who serve this country, Alaska will continue to be the best – and most strategic – place for our Air Force and our Airmen.” “Today’s announcement by the Air Force is fantastic news for Fairbanks, North Pole, and the entire nation. This decision reaffirms Alaska’s strategic role in defending our nation as well as the incredible training areas Alaska has to offer our military,” said Congressman Young. “Combining the F-35 with the F-16 Aggressor Squadron at Eielson is a win-win for everyone involved. This is an example of logic prevailing, which is becoming exceptionally rare in the federal government.” Today’s news is the result of a strategic basing evaluation of aircraft and manpower balance nationwide by the Air Force, given the global military circumstances and the Pentagon’s priorities – a process in which the delegation strongly vocalized the view of Alaskans that the state’s geographic position and the Department of Defense’s Asia-Pacific focus made the decision simple. ###
04.08.2015	04.08.15 New waters rule would greatly expand EPA role Alaskans and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy generally don’t agree on much. But recently, when talking to a reporter about water, she hit on a consensus, albeit unintentionally: “Water is personal,” she said. Indeed it is. And Alaskans know just how personal. We are a state that understands and loves its water. We boast 43,000 miles of coastline, and millions of lakes. More than 43 percent of our state’s surface area is composed of wetlands — which accounts for 65 percent of the all the wetlands in the nation. It’s in our back yards, and we take care of it. In fact, we have some of the cleanest waterways in the world. The federal government, however, doesn’t trust our state and its people to take care of our own resources, even though our environmental standards are among the strictest in the world and our waters among the cleanest. They want to assert authority over even more water and activities on adjacent lands by bypassing Congress and imposing rules that would have a devastating effect on Alaska’s economy. Already, a huge percentage of Alaskans’ waters are under federal control. In fact, a whopping 63 percent of the nation’s jurisdictional waters are in Alaska, meaning those who are doing business on or near those waters have to wrangle with the federal government to get permits. And as many who are doing business in Alaska can attest, having to deal with the federal government is time consuming and expensive, which can serve as a disincentive to doing business in the state. But if the EPA has its way and enacts yet another rule, this one called the Waters of the United States Rule, it appears the EPA’s jurisdiction will increase significantly. As of now, the Clean Water Act gives the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers authority over navigable waters and some wetlands. However, the rule the EPA is proposing, informed by dubious studies, says virtually all water — including potholes, ditches, seasonal streams, puddles, and ponds — could be connected to major waterways and is therefore under EPA jurisdiction. If the rule is promulgated as proposed, it could mean many Alaskans could be subject to having to get a permit from the EPA to dig ditches in their backyards. It would meant a farmer might have to get a permit to plow new land. It would mean harbors, roads, weed and pesticide control and certainly mining in Fairbanks, could now fall under a more rigorous federal permitting process. This is one of many issues involving federal overreach I’m fighting against in the Senate, and it’s why I’m holding field hearings on this proposed rule in Alaska this month. Today in Fairbanks, we will examine the views of and impacts on state and local governments and stakeholders of the proposed rule. It’s the start of a multi-faceted approach to kill the rule, which is obviously a constitutional over-reach, not the least of which because Congress refused to pass legislation in 2009 that would have led to the same result. I’m not alone in fighting the EPA’s power-grab. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have opposed the rule. Late last month, the Senate got bipartisan support on a non-binding amendment I co-sponsored with Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyoming, that will rein in the scope of this rulemaking. Nationwide, 22 states have called for it to be withdrawn, while 11 have asked for it to be revised. More than 300 trade groups and associations from across the country — including the American Farm Bureau Federation, the National Association of Home Builders and the National Mining Association — are also fighting it. Here at home, the Kodiak Island Borough, Sealaska Corp., the Council of Alaska Producers, Aleutians East Borough, the North Slope Borough, Arctic Slope Regional Corporation and the Inupiat Community of the Arctic Slope, to name a few, are all against the rule as proposed. Most of these groups and states are saying the same thing: localities and states, not the federal government, are best equipped to deal with water in their own areas. Commenting on the rule, Sara Taylor, the executive director of Alaska’s Citizens’ Advisory Commission on Federal Areas, wrote, “the people who care and know the most about the water should be in charge of its care. Those people are the ones who drink it, swim in it and fish in it.” However, it’s exactly those people who know best who will be “disenfranchised, most burdened, and most at risk” from the rule, the director wrote. ASRC and the Inupiat Community wrote the rule would “straitjacket the development of natural resources on Alaska’s North Slope.” Kodiak Borough wrote the rule would be “extremely burdensome.” The Alaska Miners Association said the rule would have a negative effect on the mining industry and “virtually any other economic development project” in Alaska. As Alaska faces severe budget shortfalls, this is no time for the federal government to lock up even more lands and make economic development even more difficult in the state. Please join me at the field hearing at the Fairbanks North Star Borough to learn more about the proposed rule and what the consequences will be for the state if it’s enacted. In doing so, you’ll be sending a message to Gina McCarthy that yes, water is personal. That’s why we, not the federal government, need to continue to have control over it. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
04.08.2015	04.08.15 Sullivan Holds Second EPW Field Hearing on EPA’s WOTUS Rule FAIRBANKS, AK – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife subcommittee for the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee, today chaired his second field hearing in Alaska on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the United States rule. Held in Fairbanks, AK, the hearing examined the impacts of the EPA’s Waters of the United States rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. Senator Sullivan opened the hearing by expressing his concerns for the rule. “Alaska has some of the cleanest waterways in the world leading to our vibrant, world class fisheries, and award-winning drinking water,” Sen. Sullivan said. “Concerns over this rulemaking are not at all aimed at jeopardizing those characteristics that are fundamental to the identity of Alaska. Instead, my efforts are about clarifying jurisdiction and pushing back on federal agencies that are asserting authority over even more features—such as roadside ditches, culverts, storm water systems, isolated ponds—and activities on adjacent lands, bypassing Congress and ducking Supreme Court rulings.” During the hearing, Senator Sullivan examined the views of a diverse group of stakeholders. Below are excerpts from their testimony: Senator Click Bishop, of Fairbanks, testified: “It is clear to me that the EPA, in lock-step with the Corps of Engineers, view it as their mission to control every human activity within the water column, from the moment the raindrop hits the earth until it diffuses into the ocean…This attempted rule-making..(is) a flagrant assault on the intent and plain language of the Clean Water Act… It represents a power grab by those two Agencies, at a high cost to the freedoms of the people of the U.S.” North Slope Borough Mayor Charlotte Brower, testified: “The Borough believes that if the Proposed Rule is adopted in its current form, it will hamper the Borough’s ability to provide essential services to Alaska Natives and other residents of the region, putting the recipients of those services at risk because the Proposed Rule will deleteriously impact the development of resources on Alaska’s North Slope.” Sara Taylor, Executive Director, Citizens' Advisory Commission on Federal Areas, testified: “One recurring theme throughout Alaskan history is a well-meaning paternalism which stifles our opportunity for social and economic autonomy and prosperity… In many ways, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) proposed rulemaking on the extent of federal jurisdiction over waters in Alaska is emblematic of this patronizing and often oblivious approach to Alaska…. This is our home, our being, and water is the intravenous network that feeds us, both physically and spiritually. The Clean Water Act recognizes that there is no more reliable steward of clean water than the people who fish in it, swim in it and drink it…The proposed rule will not only serve to deprive Alaska of its traditional and sovereign powers, in spite of its superior capacity and expertise to manage and protect its waters, it will also disproportionately impact its ability to grow and prosper.” Deantha Crockett, Executive Director, Alaska Miners Association, testified: “Our major concern is the lack of clarity throughout the document. Definitions of numerous key terms and concepts, like waters, floodplain, wetlands, subsurface connection, etc. are ambiguous and unclear. There is no room for confusion when it comes to permitting and regulating mining projects in Alaska. We depend on, and believe the public does too, a rigorous, science-based permitting system. Without explicit definition of all technical and enforceable terms, we are left with an unpredictable and confusing proposed rule. We can only assume that we will also be left with undefined terms that will be subject to interpretation by the agencies. To be perfectly frank, we fear this provides an avenue for our federal agencies to take a large leap into overreach, and place unreasonable regulations on mining projects simply because they can.” Bryce Wrigley, President, Alaska Farm Bureau, testified: “EPA hastens to assure farmers and ranchers that they will be exempt, however this does not prevent environmental organizations from filing suit and the recent EPA actions against farming operations have destroyed any trust that EPA or Army Corps would defend those exemptions in court. Remember that EPA has worked for many years and spent millions of dollars to assert jurisdiction over waters that both Congress and the Supreme Court have repeatedly said they did not have. This Rule shows clearly the attitude of the vast bureaucracy we have created and that now governs every aspect of our lives. It is time for Congress to impose some restrictions on the agencies that are running roughshod over the farmers and ranchers who are growing our food.” John MacKinnon, Executive Director, Associated General Contractors of Alaska, testified: “The average time for a major highway project that requires an EIS, from beginning the EIS to completion of construction is 13 years…In Alaska, lack of adequate transportation is one of the biggest impediments to our economy. Forty years ago, the biggest obstacle we had to getting a transportation project was scraping money together. Today, the biggest obstacle was have is getting permission.. The proposed changes will have a significant negative effect on the construction industry and the economy.” ###
04.06.2015	04.06.15 Sullivan Chairs EPW Subcommittee Hearing on WOTUS ANCHORAGE, AK – On the same day that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sent their proposed Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule to the White House, Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), chairman of the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fish, Water, and Wildlife, chaired his first field hearing in Anchorage on the impacts of the proposed WOTUS rule on state and local governments and stakeholders. Senator Sullivan, who has been outspoken against the EPA’s over-reaching jurisdictional expansion, explained that “Alaska is no stranger to overreaching federal agencies. However, it should be stressed that the proposed Waters of the U.S. rule may be the most massive expansion of federal jurisdiction we have seen to date.” In his opening statement, Sen. Sullivan detailed what could happen if the WOTUS rule is finalized. “If the rule is finalized, it would mean that many Alaskans might be subject to having to get a permit from the EPA in order to dig ditches in their backyards. It could mean that a farmer might have to get a permit to plow new land. It could mean that harbors, roads, and certainly natural resource development, could fall under a more rigorous federal permitting process, effectively granting the EPA the power to dictate energy, and infrastructure policy in most all of Alaska.” During the hearing, Senator Sullivan examined the views of a diverse group of stakeholders, including representatives from state and local government, an Alaska Native regional corporation, resource development associations and oil, gas and mining industry representatives. “In Washington D.C., we have held hearings with the EPA Administrator, Assistant Secretary of the Army, State government representatives, and stakeholders. This hearing is a continuation of those efforts. It will also give voice to a cross section of Alaskans on this rule and its possible impacts,” said Sen. Sullivan. The hearings will continue on Wednesday at 9 a.m. in Fairbanks at the Fairbanks North Star Borough assembly chambers. Below are excerpts from today’s testimony: Michelle Hale, Director of the Division of Water in the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, testified: “The State of Alaska believes that the Waters of the U.S. rule will lead to a significantly larger number of waters and wetlands that are ‘jurisdictional’ and that will require permits for development, further driving up already high costs of permitting and compensatory mitigation.. Alaska has long protected its water resources under state statutory and regulatory authority. There is simply no need to expand the Army Corps of Engineers’ and EPA’s regulatory reach by increasing the numbers of waters they regulate.” Tara M. Sweeney, Executive Vice President of External Affairs, Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, testified: “ASRC believes that if the Proposed Rule regarding “Definition of ‘Waters of the United States’ Under the Clean Water Act” is adopted, not only will it hamper ASRC’s use of its lands for the benefit of Alaska Natives, but it will also constrain the development of natural resources on Alaska’s North Slope.” Rod Hanson, Vice President, System Integrity, Engineering & Projects, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, testified: “Under our reading of the proposal, it would significantly expand Clean Water Act jurisdiction to cover many more waterbodies and features than currently are covered under the law. As a result, we believe this proposed rule will subject many more TAPS activities and operations to regulation under the Clean Water Act than currently are covered by the statute and regulations…This could significantly delay our ability to get critical work done, in the short season we have to do that work in Alaska, by causing delays in screening, permitting and other approvals for critical inspection, repair and maintenance projects.” Lorali Simon, Vice President, External Affairs, Usibelli Coal Mine, Inc, testified: “Usibelli is deeply concerned about a proposed rule by the Environmental Protection Agency which would significantly increase the jurisdictional waters of the United States under the Clean Water Act. Should this proposed rule be finalized, it will likely stop all development in Alaska – small, private developments, as well as large resource development projects.” Rick Rogers, Executive Director, Resource Development Council for Alaska testified: “(R)ather than reducing confusion, the proposed rule as written takes the most aggressive and broad interpretation of federal jurisdiction, rendering adjacent waters, floodplains, ephemeral streams, tributaries, and ditches with limited exceptions as jurisdictional.” Kathie Wasserman, Executive Director, Alaska Municipal League, testified: “Throughout the entire rule-making process, state and local governments were not adequately consulted through the Regulatory Flexibility Act…Alaska’s geography will see Alaska’s municipalities most likely impacted more than any other state. Given time, it would not be surprising to find EPA simply deem Alaska as a “water of the U.S.” Kara Moriarty, President/CEO, Alaska Oil and Gas Association, testified: “Despite EPA’s statements to the contrary, I hope that each and every member of the regulated community appreciates that the rule represents a statement by the EPA that it intends to exercise authority under the Clean Water Act on virtually any water feature with any tentative or hypothetical connection, directly or indirectly, to a traditionally navigable or interstate water…It is impossible to understate how significantly the proposed rule will effect operations in Alaska, through both delays and increased costs.” ###
04.03.2015	04.03.15 Sullivan Meets With Japanese Prime Minister Abe on Trip to Asia ANCHORAGE, AK – Senate Armed Services Committee member Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), today returned from a trip across the Asia-Pacific, with stops in Hawaii, Guam, Okinawa and Tokyo, Japan, where he met with senior military officials and government leaders to assess the United States’ strategic rebalance in the region – a long-term, global military strategy announced in 2012 to optimize the way in which U.S. forces are deployed throughout the Asia-Pacific. Sen. Sullivan concluded his trip with a one-on-one meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, where they discussed strengthening the alliance between the U.S. and Japan, as well as opportunities for increasing exports of Alaska liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Japan. “I enjoyed a very productive meeting with Prime Minister Abe,” said Sen. Sullivan. “We discussed the critical importance of the U.S.-Japan strategic alliance, as well as his upcoming and historic address to a joint session of Congress later this month. We concluded the meeting by discussing the decades-long economic and energy relationship between Japan and Alaska, and the significant opportunities that exist for increasing exports of LNG from Alaska to Japan.” In addition to meeting with Prime Minister Abe, Sen. Sullivan met with Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Suga, Minister of Defense Nakatani, and senior officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). Themes from these meetings included the U.S. strategic rebalance of military forces in Asia and the opportunities for deepening the U.S.-Japan energy security relationship, particularly through the export of Alaska LNG. Sen. Sullivan’s visit to Okinawa – which coincided with the 70th Anniversary of the battle of Okinawa in World War II – as well as his stops in Guam and Hawaii, focused on the U.S. strategic rebalance of military forces in Asia. Sen. Sullivan met with senior U.S. military officials there, including PACOM Admiral Locklear, III Marine Expeditionary Force Lt. General Wissler, and he discussed with them the importance of Alaska’s military personnel and force structure in the overall strategic posture of military forces in the Asia-Pacific. During his trip, Sen. Sullivan also met with civilian leaders, including Governor Calvo of Guam and several mayors on Okinawa. This trip to the Asia-Pacific was part of Sen. Sullivan’s oversight responsibilities as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. ###
04.03.2015	04.03.15 Sullivan Responds to Obama Administration’s ANWR Comprehensive Conservation Plan, Formal Request to Congress ANCHORAGE, AK – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s revised Comprehensive Conservation Plan (CCP) to manage the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) as wilderness, and a formal request to Congress to approve the wilderness designation. “This outrageous proposal from the Obama Administration will undermine Alaska’s future and America’s energy security. It will never see the light of day in Congress,” said Sen. Sullivan. “President Obama’s goal of starving the Trans-Alaska Pipeline of oil and turning our state into a giant national park will not stand. I will continue to work closely with Senator Murkowski, Congressman Young, Governor Walker and members of the Alaska Legislature in defending our fellow Alaskans against this assault on our families and our future.” ###
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Sullivan talks states' rights, AKLNG Alaska's freshman senator: Get aligned on the gas line With polarizing issues facing the Alaska Legislature, there couldn’t have been a more interesting time for the state’s freshman U.S. senator to make a stop at the Capitol. Sen. Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska, made it clear in his first-ever address to lawmakers that his intention is to push against President Barack Obama’s mandates while working to get things done for the state. Needless to say, his speech was a hit with the Republican House and Senate majorities. Sullivan, a former Alaska attorney general and Department of Natural Resources commissioner, met with the Empire to share his perspectives on issues impacting the state. The interview has been edited for length. Q: You said in your talks today that 36 states are aligned against perceived Environmental Protection Agency overreach. Rep. Shelley Hughes, R-Palmer, has introduced a resolution asking for an amendment of the U.S. Constitution to give states veto power over federal decisions they disagree with. Do you think there’s a chance states could force the federal government to back down on EPA regulations? A: (In a Wall Street Journal opinion piece this week,) I talk about federal legislation that would be something very analogous ... that would require federal agencies to come back through the Congress with any major rule ... and have Congress actually approve up or down the regulation. It gets us out of this big problem... where the Obama administration comes to the Congress ..., there’s no stomach for it because it’s not supported by the American people, and then it doesn’t move through the Congress, and then (Obama’s administration) go ahead and issue or direct agency action on the thing they couldn’t get done through the Congress in the first place. And then to be honest it becomes a bit of a battle for us to stop that. ... Yeah (I think there’s a chance states could force the federal government to back down). ... One of the themes of my remarks today was the importance of us listening to states and also having them help on our big federal issues. The structure of the government was not meant to be federal government top down command economy structure. That’s not how we were set up as a country. Just because we are like that now doesn’t mean we need to be like that for good. ... I think under the Obama administration that’s the total M.O. Q: The EPA’s recent actions — the Clean Air Act restriction in particular — seem to be an effort to mitigate climate change. If you disagree with the agency’s methods, what would you suggest as an appropriate course of action to combat global climate change? A: I’m somebody who has been a true believer in “all-of-the-above” energy. The best way you can deal with lowering CO2 emissions is having a strong economy to do so. You’ve seen what natural gas in places like the Lower 48 ... where there’s been a huge reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through the use of natural gas. ... What I would never be for, and this administration seems to be for all the time, is undermining our economic growth potential, picking one source of energy over another. Q: Speaking of diversified energy, what can you do at the federal level to help Alaska get its gas pipeline? A: The key role I think we can play, and I’m working on it ... with some of my Democratic colleagues, what we need to be able to do, without cutting corners on the environment, is be able to expedite the permitting and regulatory requirements of the gas line. If we’re able to cut one to two to three years off of the normal permitting process timeline, which i think is very doable, you would literally save hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars on the project and help make it more competitive. Here’s why it’s very doable for us: So much of our gas line is going to cover areas of infrastructure in the state that have been EIS’d and EA’d forever, the North Slope, the TAPS pipeline route. Granted, the gas line is not 100 percent along that route, but a whole lot of that is. ... One final one, it’s what I’ve talked about today, is making the argument. If there was a large-scale energy project that made sense not only for Alaska but for the United States, it’s Alaska liquefied natural gas. I mean, that is a win-win-win-win every way you look at it. It’s great for jobs in America and Alaska, it’s great for low cost energy for Alaskans, which of course we need, it’s great for low cost energy probably for Hawaiians, ... it’s very good for our allies in Asia and Korea. And would it be good to have the Chinese be a little more dependent on us with regard to gas? Yeah. It would help our trade deficit. It would dramatically increase our national security. We could send Alaska LNG to the Ukrainians and help prevent Vladimir Putin from blackmailing our country with energy. So, we’ve gotta make the case that way, why this is a national imperative. Q: You’ve spoken a lot today about success being contingent on aligning efforts and working across the aisle. Looking in from the Outside, what do you see as an issue Alaskans need to get aligned on in order to move forward as a state? A: We need to continue to align on the gas line. Look, the governor has worked on this for decades, and I have the utmost respect for his knowledge and wisdom. One of the things I took over (as Department of Natural Resources commissioner), one of the things I tried to study deeply is why have we not been able to commercialize this gas in 40 years? Why? This is back in 2011 ... we weren’t even close to where we are now ... Point Thomson was mired in litigation, Exxon and TransCanada had their own gas line project going in the Lower 48, Conoco and BP had the Denali project. We weren’t even talking about (liquefied natural gas). The way I looked at it, every single time we tried to make progress, we had one major, major stakeholder, one critical, important piece of the puzzle, out of alignment. ... Take a look at our history, almost every time we look like were’ getting progress, one of those elements kind of comes out of whack. ... (How did we make progress?) We started aligning all those groups, and it’s important to keep that going. The window of opportunity in Asia isn’t going to last forever. ... I’m not weighing in on which option (AKLNG or the Alaska Stand Alone Pipeline). I don’t feel it’s my role to dip into this pretty intense debate. By: Katie Moritz Source: Juneau Empire
03.24.2015	03.24.15 Wall Street Journal OpEd: Obama’s Alaska Wilderness Head Fake President Obama’s plan to designate 12 million acres as wilderness in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge did not fool Alaskans. The announcement in January revealed his goal of starving the trans-Alaska pipeline by stranding tens of billions of barrels of American oil permanently under the Arctic tundra, and turning the state into a giant national park. Given the huge importance the oil industry plays in employing Alaskans and funding state services, the president’s plan will wreak havoc on the state and especially its middle class. Gov. Bill Walker and nearly every member of the state legislature are united with the majority of Alaskans and Alaska Native leaders in opposition. But the rest of the country should also oppose—and even fear—Mr. Obama’s determination to lock up the state. Here’s why: First, putting tens of billions of barrels of oil and gas off limits will undermine one of the country’s greatest potential security assets. In recent weeks the Senate Armed Services Committee, on which I sit, has held hearings with some of America’s wisest foreign-policy experts— Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, Madeleine Albright and several four-star generals. All testified about the unprecedented national security challenges the U.S. faces, and the strategies to keep America strong and safe. All agreed, along with new Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter, that the U.S. ability to become the world’s energy superpower through natural gas, oil and renewable-energy production would dramatically increase national and economic security. The U.S. could use this newfound strength in dealing with Iran, Russia or terrorist groups throughout the Middle East that leverage energy for political purposes. The administration’s Alaska plan also undermines the rule of law. In December 2012 the president issued an executive order that ignored Congress and the law by removing half of the 23-million-acre National Petroleum Reserve of Alaska from oil and gas development. Yet this area was set aside by Congress in 1923 specifically for oil and gas development. Mr. Obama’s recent announcement to put the coastal plain of Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) into wilderness status was a similar but more devious ploy. Under the 1964 Wilderness Act only Congress can designate the ANWR coastal plain as wilderness, which would forever lock up this region for energy development. With potentially billions of barrels of oil under the plain, there is no chance that Congress would do so. Nevertheless, the White House has said that it will soon introduce ANWR wilderness legislation and meanwhile “manage” the ANWR plain as wilderness anyway. Sound familiar? This is the “Obama two step.” The president makes a head fake toward respecting the Constitution, then turns around and directs agency action that flouts the very law that he couldn’t get through Congress. The two-step list is long and growing: ANWR wilderness, executive amnesty on immigration, numerous changes to ObamaCare, and even a possible nuclear deal with Iran, which the president has said he won’t send to Congress. Mr. Obama also employed the two-step against coal miners in states like West Virginia and Kentucky, using legally dubious rules that are effectively shutting down the coal industry. Today it is oil development in Alaska. Tomorrow it will be farmers in Iowa, Indiana or Illinois who will be hurt by new EPA claims to regulate American waters. As a freshman senator, I have been surprised that some of my colleagues routinely protect the president’s power grabs by going along with these policies. Yesteryear’s giants in the Senate on both sides of the aisle—Robert Byrd, Daniel Inouye, Scoop Jackson, Ted Stevens—would not have stood for it. They’d be raising the roof over the usurpation of the Senate’s power by any president, regardless of political party. Ultimately, the most important leverage we have is the American people. I hear from outraged constituents every day. I see state legislatures, including my own, passing resolutions and laws to combat the president’s unconstitutional power grab. Members of Congress must use all of the constitutionally mandated tools to protect the separation of powers and check the president when he overreaches. We have the power of the purse and need to use it. We can also disapprove rules through the Congressional Review Act and the Reins Act, a bill introduced by Sen. Rand Paul that would require Congress to approve major new rules after an economic analysis. We need to begin to restore the government’s constitutional balance, protect individual liberties and unleash the economic might of America. Mr. Sullivan, a Republican, is a U.S. senator from Alaska. By: Senator Dan Sullivan
03.23.2015	03.23.15 Sullivan talks federal regs, military presence Senator details efforts to limit EPA; 'We're going to...pass a budget this year' JUNEAU — U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan on Monday said fighting federal overreach and pushing for a continued military presence in Alaska are among his priorities. Sullivan made his comments in addressing a joint session of the state Legislature. Such addresses are tradition among Alaska’s U.S. senators, and this was the first for Sullivan, a Republican who won election last November. Sullivan said his efforts to limit the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency include support for a bill that provides fishing vessels with an exemption to certain discharge regulations, and hearings in Alaska on the Clean Water Act that he’ll chair next month. Sullivan said the U.S. Senate has been working on a version of the federal budget over the past two months, with several votes planned this week. The budget being put forward will work toward balancing the budget over the next 10 years and developing the nation’s economy, he said. “We’re going to work hard and pass a budget this year, something that has rarely happened in the last seven years of the United States Congress,” he said. Sullivan said his committee assignments have also positioned him to work on other legislation, including a military suicide prevention act that passed in February, and a sportsman bill that would provide opportunity for hunting and fishing on federal lands. He also talked about the need to maintain a military presence in Alaska, particularly as Russia beefs up its resources in the Arctic. “You put military forces in forward places like Alaska so you don’t have to use them,” he said. Sullivan praised lawmakers for their work in fighting against areas in which it believes the federal government is overreaching, specifically referencing resolutions that supported drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and for pushing the federal government to get involved in Arctic issues. Lawmakers also questioned Sullivan on a variety of issues. In response to one question, Sullivan said he wanted to see a U.S. Supreme Court nominee who believed in limited government, and who would take a “textualist approach” to looking at the document, not one who believed in a living constitution. He also said he opposed the United States signing on to the international Law of the Sea treaty because it could result in the United Nations imposing taxes on American entities. In 2011, the Legislature passed a resolution urging federal support for the treaty. Sullivan also said he would continue trying to limit the EPA, Transportation Security Administration and executive power in general in response to several questions. By: Molly Dischner Source: Associated Press
03.21.2015	03.21.15 Congress should have a say in US-Iran nuclear weapons deal As I traveled throughout our great state last year, I heard repeatedly how worried Alaskans were about national security. From the growth and brutality of ISIS and a resurgent Russia waging war in the heart of Europe, to a steady march by Iran to obtain nuclear weapons, Alaskans recognized the unprecedented challenges threatening our country. They sensed what former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger recently put into words during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing: “The United States has not faced a more diverse and complex array of crises since the end of the Second World War.” To be sure, the Obama Administration is not to blame for all of this. But its policies of “leading from behind” certainly have contributed to the chaos in international affairs. Nowhere is this more apparent than with the Obama Administration’s policies toward Iran. Weakness is provocative, and Iran — which still views America as the “Great Satan” — has aggressively expanded its influence throughout the Middle East as a result of the lack of resolve shown by the Obama Administration. Iran is not just another country. It is the biggest sponsor of state terrorism in the world, whose leaders continue to express the genocidal goal of “wiping Israel off the map.” With a nuclear bomb, they’d have the means to do so. It is also the country responsible for the maiming and killing of thousands of American soldiers and Marines in Iraq by supplying Shiite militias there with the most sophisticated and lethal IEDs on the battlefield, something I witnessed in 2005-06 during my active-duty military assignment as a staff officer to the commanding general of U.S. Central Command. In short: Iran‘s leaders are declared enemies of the U.S. with the blood of American soldiers on their hands. Yet it’s these leaders that the Obama Administration — since the beginning of its tenure in Washington — has spent considerable time wooing and making concessions to in its nuclear negotiations. It started in 2009, when young Iranian demonstrators, students and other opponents of Iran’s theocracy, courageously filled the streets of Tehran, denouncing the regime and begging for freedom in what was called the “Green Revolution.” Yet, the Obama Administration stood back and did nothing because, apparently, the President didn’t want to offend the mullahs. It’s a pattern that’s continued for years with the secret nuclear negotiations the Obama Administration has been undertaking with Iran, which first involved lifting economic sanctions placed on the regime by Congress. Early goals of the nuclear negotiations — to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and the capacity to build it — have been jettisoned. Now, the emphasis appears to be on containment. All of this has been happening as Iran has dramatically increased its influence across the Middle East. Capitals as diverse as Baghdad, Sana’a, Damascus and Beirut, are either friendly to, or taking orders from Tehran. And recently we’ve learned that Obama Administration has been telling Iran’s leaders in secret talks that the U.S. Congress will have no role in approving any nuclear deal, but the United Nations would. This should alarm all Alaskans: on one of the most significant national security issues facing America in a generation — whether Iran obtains a nuclear weapon — we are leaving the decision solely to the judgement of John Kerry and Barack Obama. This would reverse important bipartisan precedent. For decades, major civilian nuclear and arms control agreements — including most recently with the United Arab Emirates and India — have regularly been brought before the Congress for its approval. Not bringing the deal before the Senate would likely violate the Constitution’s advice and consent clause for treaties, adding to a long list of Obama Administration federal overreach which ignores the separation of powers. And it’s a tactic that lacks strategic sense. Our country is strongest in foreign affairs when the Executive Branch pursues agreements that are strongly backed by the Congress. As an assistant secretary of state in the Bush Administration who worked to economically isolate Iran, I saw firsthand how the threat of congressional sanctions strongly discouraged our European allies from investing in Iran. Indeed, Congress’s additional sanctions on Iran in 2011 were what brought the mullahs to the negotiating table about its nuclear program in the first place. But now our president and John Kerry are telling Iran’s leaders not to worry about the views of the U.S. Congress because they’ll have no role in approving any final nuclear deal. This is the context in which I joined 46 other U.S. Senators in signing an open letter placed on the internet to Iran’s leaders that informed them that Congress must approve any nuclear agreement for it to have a lasting effect. The letter was not intended to scuttle a nuclear arms deal with Iran, as some have claimed. Rather, it was written to ensure that the American people, through their representatives in Congress, get to weigh-in in a meaningful way on this critical national security issue. And while critics have howled loudly, they have yet to answer the critical issue raised by the letter: Should the American people through the Congress be allowed to vote on the nuclear weapons deal between the Obama Administration and the world’s largest terrorist regime? My answer is clearly yes. Fortunately, there is a growing bipartisan group of Senators who agree. This is a welcome change from a previous Senate majority that rarely challenged Obama’s policies even though Congress — as a co-equal branch of government — has significant responsibilities for national defense and foreign policy under the Constitution. Moreover, many of my Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree, as do I, that the Obama Administration is setting up a false dichotomy when it claims that we only have a choice between accepting the Obama-Iranian deal — whatever the terms might be — or war. There is another avenue that has already proved highly effective. We could ratchet up sanctions against Iran—increasing pressure on its leaders — until we get a deal that requires Iran to renounce terrorism and prevents it from obtaining the bomb. By: Sen. Dan Sullivan Source: Juneau Empire
03.16.2015	03.16.15 Sullivan Introduces Amendment to Human Trafficking Bill WASHINGTON, DC – On Thursday, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) took to the Senate floor, to speak in support of S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, as well as offer his Mann Act Cooperation amendment. Sen. Sullivan’s bipartisan amendment, co-sponsored by Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), would free up federal resources by allowing and encouraging state Attorneys General and local District Attorneys to prosecute cases under the Mann Act – the federal law that makes it a criminal offense to transport someone between states for the purpose of prostitution and human trafficking. Additionally, the amendment preserves federal prosecutors’ ability to exercise prosecutorial discretion, while at the same time, increasing transparency in Mann Act cases by requiring the federal government to provide a detailed explanation when they deny the state’s attorney generals request to prosecute a Mann Act violation. In human trafficking cases, it’s often local investigators and prosecutors who have the most information on these cases. “The key goal of this amendment is to enable the resources and cooperation between state and federal prosecutors to ensure that ALL cases of human trafficking are pursued and victims have justice,” said Sen. Sullivan. “That’s why it’s such a win-win approach to state-federal prosecutions with regards to human trafficking.” (CLICK HERE to watch Sen. Sullivan’s complete floor speech) Following his Senate floor speech, Sen. Sullivan said, “When I was Alaska’s Attorney General, there was a high-profile case that my department petitioned the federal government to prosecute under the Mann Act or cross designate state attorneys to do so, but it never happened. Requiring better cooperation and transparency between states and the federal government on these cases is the best way to ensure that the victims of these heinous crimes receive the justice they deserve.” ###
03.16.2015	03.16.15 Sullivan Secures Timeline for Arctic Plan of Action to Respond to Russian Military Build-Ups WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) used his position on the Armed Services Committee last week to expose the United States’ lack of military plans and action in the Arctic. This announcement comes as the Associated Press reports yesterday that Russia is launching a major training exercise in the Arctic involving 38,000 servicemen, more than 50 surface ships and submarines and 110 aircraft. Throughout last week, Sen. Sullivan questioned the wisdom of possible troop reductions in Alaska, highlighted the need for more U.S. icebreakers, and once again pressed senior military officials about their lack of strategic plans for the Arctic. Arctic Operations Plan: In the committee’s final hearing of the week, Sen. Sullivan received word that U.S. Northern Command, led by U.S. Navy Admiral Gortney, will issue an Arctic Operations Plan later this spring. This long-awaited plan is desperately needed as it should drive what force structure is needed in Alaska as Russia further militarizes their side of the Arctic with ground forces, as alluded to by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, earlier this month. (Click to view video) “As you know [the Russians] are building new airfields in the Arctic. They have a new Arctic Command,” said Sen. Sullivan. “Gen. Dempsey testified last week that four new combat brigades are being deployed by the Russians in the Arctic. A huge icebreaker fleet with as many as 11 more new icebreakers. So they are clearly seen as a strategic area…My concern is that we’re well behind the Russians in…a growing area of military competition.” In written testimony, both Commanders of NORTHCOM and SOUTHCOM testified on how the Russian are attempting to challenge U.S. leadership and influence using “Cold War-tactics.” In fact, Admiral Gortney testified that “Russian heavy bombers flew more out-of-area patrols in 2014 than in any year since the Cold War.” Possible Troop Draw Down: In a Committee hearing last week, Sen. Sullivan pressed key Navy leaders, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus and Chief Naval Officer Admiral John W. Greenert, on the wisdom of reducing strategic force structure in Alaska and the need for increased U.S. Navy presence in the Arctic, including Navy icebreakers. "When you look at what the Russians are doing in the Arctic, it is actually quite impressive – impressive, but disturbing," Sen. Sullivan said. (Click to view video) "The Russians are looking at adding four new combat brigades in the Arctic as our U.S. Army is thinking of pulling them out of there," he said. "I think that would give Vladimir Putin a lot of joy. They are building 13 new airfields and conducting long-range air patrols off the coast of Alaska." Senator Sullivan added that the Russians are “all-in in the Arctic and it’s not 13-pages of paper. It’s concrete, it’s ships, it’s airfields, and we’re thinking about removing forces from Alaska.” In response, Secretary Mabus remarked that “As the ice melts in the Arctic, our responsibilities clearly are going up.” He went on to say that due to budget cuts, the Navy does not “have the capability [it] would like to have in the Arctic.” Navy’s Need for Icebreakers: On the issue of building additional icebreakers – possibly being built by the U.S. Navy – Sen. Sullivan pressed Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy Thomas Dee about getting a non-bureaucratic answer over whether it is in the national security interests of the United States – given the developments in the Arctic – to have an additional icebreaker, regardless of whether the Navy or Coast Guard owns it. (Click to view video) “I’m not interested in whose budget [a potential icebreaker] is…. The issue of national security is everyone’s issue,” Sen. Sullivan said. Undersecretary Dee committed to responding to Senator Sullivan’s request. Senator Sullivan also pressed USMC Lt. General Glueck on the Marines Corps’ new 10-year plan for its future force and how it did not have “a single sentence on the Arctic.” Lt. General Glueck assured Sen. Sullivan that the Marines Corps would update that plan in the next few months and “put some attention on” the Arctic. ###
03.16.2015	03.16.15 Sullivan Holds First Hearing as Chairman of EPW Subcommittee Hearing Examines Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015 WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chairman of the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water and Wildlife, held his first hearing today, on S. 659, the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015, a bill sponsored by Sen. Sullivan, that would protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, and shooting through increasing access, supporting successful conservation programs, and reining in federal overreach. “This legislation represents years of hard work by the sporting community, and I am appreciative of the efforts that have gone into crafting what is a collection of bills that have demonstrated broad bipartisan support over the years, including some that enjoy the support of the Obama Administration,” said Sen. Sullivan. “I am hopeful that in this Congress, we will be able to take this effort across the finish line, because doing so means more opportunities for America’s sporting community and more dollars for wildlife conservation.” (Click on photo above to watch Sen. Sullivan’s opening statement) Specific Provisions in Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015: Codify an existing exemption that would exclude the EPA from regulating lead fishing tackle and ammunition Provide the states greater ability to use Pittman-Robertson funding for shooting ranges on public lands Allow the Secretary of the Interior to issue permits to 41 hunters, so that they can import their legally taken polar bear trophies from Canada Ensure farmers are not cited for illegal baiting when hunting birds from their farm fields Allow the lawful possession of firearms at water resource development projects Reauthorize the North American Wetlands Conservation Act Reauthorize the five Multinational Species Conservation Funds Extend Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act Interest Payments towards conservation projects (Click on photo above to watch Sen. Sullivan question Jeff Crane, President of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, and Dale Hall, President/CEO of Ducks Unlimited) Jeff Crane, President of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, testified, “This is common sense legislation with strong bipartisan support that is good for conservation and preserves our outdoor heritage. It is also good for the American economy, especially for rural communities that surround our treasure of public lands and waters. With an ever increasing population, perhaps most importantly, it provides clarity and certainty that access to our federal lands and waters will remain available for hunting, recreational shooting and fishing, and other outdoor recreational pursuits for generations to come.” Dale Hall, CEO of Ducks Unlimited, testified, “I appreciate the opportunity to testify on behalf of Ducks Unlimited regarding the Sportsmen’s Act, including reauthorization of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (NAWCA), reauthorization of the interest from the Pittman-Robertson fund to NAWCA, and many other important provisions. NAWCA has been an important and highly effective program that has protected and conserved migratory bird populations for more than 25 years, and Ducks Unlimited fully supports the passage of these provisions within the bill. These programs are models of how government can and should work.” ###
03.11.2015	03.11.15 Sullivan Announces Kenai Peninsula Regional Director WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced that Elaina Spraker will serve as Regional Director of his Kenai Peninsula office. “I am pleased to announce Elaina Spraker as our Kenai Peninsula Regional Director,” Sen. Sullivan said. “Elaina has been active in the Kenai Peninsula community for nearly thirty years, and her wealth of knowledge and experience will be an enormous asset to our Senate team.” Spraker, of Soldotna, AK, has served in a variety of nonprofit, government and school district organizations during her decades of service in the Kenai Peninsula community. An avid outdoorswoman, Spraker will also continue to serve as the Clinic Director for the Women on Target/Teens on Target Firearm Training, a National Rifle Association sponsored training program for women and adolescences. Sullivan’s Kenai Peninsula office will serve as the local hub for constituent relations in the region. Alaskans living on the Kenai Peninsula currently experiencing an issue with a federal agency, should contact Senator Sullivan’s office for assistance. Acting as a liaison between the constituent and the federal government, Senator Sullivan and his staff can help answer questions, find resources, or resolve problems. Office Location: 805 Frontage Road, Suite 101 Kenai, AK 99611 Phone: (907) 283-4000 Fax: (907) 283-4401 Office Hours: Monday through Thursday 9:00 AM to 4:00 PM ###
03.06.2015	03.06.15 Sullivan Stresses Need for Export License for Alaska LNG Project with Dept. of Energy Secretary Moniz WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to seek rapid processing of the pending non-Free Trade Agreement export license application submitted by the Alaska LNG Project LCC in July 2014, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) recently wrote Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz and held a follow up meeting in his office to stress the need for the Energy Department to move forward on this critical infrastructure project. Senator Sullivan noted that in his previous roles as Alaska Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources and Attorney General: In previous meetings with senior Obama Administration advisors and Department of Energy officials, I received assurances that, given some of the unique characteristics defined below, the application of AK LNG would receive rapid and favorable treatment once stakeholders applied for permitting. Citing the obvious and numerous economic benefits the project would bring to Alaska, Senator Sullivan wrote: As you know, the project is a great opportunity to not only fuel our country’s own need for cleaner energy, but tap into the demand of an ever growing Asia-Pacific consumer market. Given the overwhelming economic benefits this project would bring to Alaska and the nation, it is instrumental in fully unleashing America’s vast energy potential. Senator Sullivan concluded by asking Secretary Moniz to swiftly rule on the Alaska LNG non FTA export license: Last summer, when visiting Alaska, you indicated that a rapid processing of the AK LNG permit application would ensue as soon as the public comment period closed. Given that we are now a month into 2015 and with no credible or significant public opposition, I ask for your swift decision on this matter so we can move this critical infrastructure project forward. In a recent follow up meeting with Senator Sullivan, Secretary Moniz continued to identify Alaska LNG as different than lower 48 projects and gave assurances that the agency is working diligently on the non-FTA portion of the export license. “After meeting with the Secretary, I’m confident that he will be approving the export license for AK LNG in the near future,” said Sen. Sullivan. ###
03.05.2015	03.05.15 Alaska Takes Next Step Towards F-35 WASHINGTON, DC – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation welcomed news from the United States Air Force, announcing three public scoping meetings in Interior Alaska to begin the formal process of stationing 48 of the Air Force’s most advanced fighter aircraft, the F-35A, at Eielson Air Force Base. “There may never have been a time when America needed Alaska and our military might more than it does right now, with rogue and unpredictable threats emerging to our west – and I have welcomed all the indications that they are moving forward with their F-35s to Eielson Air Force Base,” said Senator Murkowski. “As much as the external conditions point to Alaska as a destination for these aircraft, when the U.S. Air Force hears from Alaskans they will see and hear how we have the best position, personnel, technology and quality of life for our men and women defending our nation.” “Over the last few weeks, I have spoken with several senior Air Force leaders, including the Chief of Staff of the Air Force General Welsh, and they all have assured me that Alaska is home to the nation’s largest training ranges, the best airspace, and some of the very best airmen in the Air Force,” said Senator Sullivan. “This notice is a giant leap towards bringing the F-35 to the most strategic place in the world -- and with Russia militarizing the Arctic, these F-35s can’t arrive soon enough.” “With our superior size, diverse landscape, and unique environment, I’ve always said that there’s no better place to house the first generation of F-35 fighters than Alaska. Today’s announcement is another great step to making that a reality,” said Congressman Don Young. “As a vital element to our national security and strategic power, the Air Force has recognized Eielson AFB for its incredible ability to fulfill the mission. I’m pleased to see this process move ahead and look forward to officially welcoming these aircraft to the Interior. For the countless Alaskan who joined me in this labor of love, you should be proud of all your efforts.” The public meetings will be held from March 24-26, 2015 in in North Pole, Fairbanks, and Delta Junction. The dates, locations and times are: Tuesday, March 24, 2015, 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM North Pole Worship Center 3340 Badger Road, North Pole Wednesday, March 25, 2015, 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Westmark Hotel and Conference Center 813 Noble Street, Fairbanks Thursday, March 26, 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Alaskan Steakhouse & Motel 265 Richardson Highway, Delta Junction ###
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Sullivan Reacts to Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu’s Address to Congress WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today after attending Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu’s joint address to Congress: “Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered a powerful and moving speech to Congress today,” said Sen. Sullivan. “It was everything a speech from a strong leader should be: intelligent, resolved and most importantly, true. All of us, especially President Obama, should take note, especially when the Prime Minister said that the deal that the Obama administration is making with Iran ‘paves Iran’s path’ to a bomb. ‘The greatest dangers facing our world is the marriage of militant Islam with nuclear weapons,’ said Prime Minister Netanyahu. ‘To defeat ISIS and let Iran get nuclear weapons, would be to win the battle, but lose the war.’ “I agree wholeheartedly. For the security of Israel, for the stability of the Middle East, and for the future of our country, we must do everything in our power to keep Iran from having a nuclear bomb. Know that I will continue to work with the my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the U.S. Senate to give the Obama administration the backbone on national security issues that it has lacked for the past six years.” ###
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff to Sullivan: Russia Has Activated 4 New Combat Brigades in the Arctic WASHINGTON, DC – During an Armed Services Committee hearing today on the Department of Defense’s FY16 budget request, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) was told about Russia’s plans to attempt to militarize and dominate the Arctic. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey said that of the six new Russia brigades being activated, four of them will be in the Arctic. Given Russia’s plans in the Arctic, Senator Sullivan questioned the wisdom of the possible removal of one or both U.S. Army Brigade Combat teams (BCT) from Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson and Ft. Wainwright in Alaska. “We have a 13 page paper, the Russians are putting major, major troops and infrastructure in the Arctic – does that concern you, and should we be looking at removing brigade combat teams, our only airborne brigade in the Pacific?” Senator Sullivan asked both General Dempsey and Secretary of Defense Ash Carter. (To watch Sen. Sullivan question Secretary of Defense & General Dempsey, CLICK HERE.) Secretary Carter agreed that the Arctic is going to be a place of growing strategic importance, and that Russia, among other threatening countries, is watching our actions closely. He said that he worries about “our foes being encouraged or heartened when they see us debate whether we should spend enough money on our defense.” After the hearing, Senator Sullivan further commented on Secretary Carter’s testimony. “That we would even contemplate taking one soldier away from Alaska is lunacy given Putin’s recent actions in the Arctic,” Sen. Sullivan said. “Alaska’s Army BCTs are the best cold-weather and mountain-hardened BCTs in the country. The training makes them uniquely valuable to the U.S. Army and their presence in Alaska hopefully ensures that other nation’s never make us use them.” ###
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Sullivan Praises Commerce Committee Passage of Vessel Discharge Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), applauded the Senate Commerce Committee’s passage of legislation he co-sponsored that would permanently exempt Alaska’s fishing vessels, and commercial vessels less than 79 feet in length, from Environmental Protection Agency incidental discharge regulations. S. 373, the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act, introduced earlier this month, is widely supported by the maritime and fishing industries. “Permanently exempting these vessels from the EPA’s burdensome regulations will provide Alaskan fishermen with some much needed regulatory certainty,” said Sen. Sullivan. “Past Congresses have waited until the 11th hour to provide relief for our industry, only to then punt this issue to be dealt with another day. It’s beyond time that we make this exemption permanent, and I am proud to have helped lead the effort to advance this bill at the Commerce Committee’s first markup of the new Congress.” Summary of Major Provisions: Authorize and implement uniform and enforceable national standards to regulate vessel discharge – such as ballast water; Permanently exempt commercial vessels under 79 feet and all fishing boats from regulations regarding incidental discharge. S. 373 is originally sponsored by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), John Thune (R-SD) and Bill Nelson (D-FL). ###
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Sullivan Opposes Funding Bill that Includes President’s Amnesty Plan WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today voted against final passage of the Department of Homeland Security funding bill that does not include provisions to block President Obama’s executive amnesty plan. “President Obama's decision in November to unilaterally issue executive amnesty was a blatant disregard for the rule of law and the will of the American people. The president himself said no less than 22 times that he didn’t have the authority to take the law into his own hands. In other words, he was against usurping the powers granted to him by the Constitution before he was for it. “It takes hard work to get major bills passed. And that’s the way it should be. That’s the way the founders wanted it to be. But you have to work for it. Unlike many of his predecessors, this president has made no attempt to do so. Instead he has chosen to defy Congress, the court, the people, and even himself by grabbing powers that are not his to grab. “I supported a bill passed by the House, which funded Homeland Security to protect the country while rejecting the president’s power-grab. Upholding the Constitution and restoring the rule of law was a commitment I made to my fellow Alaskans, and I intend to continue fighting on their behalf each and every day in the U.S. Senate.”
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Sullivan Announces Additional Hires in Washington, DC Office WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced additional legislative staff hires in his Washington, DC office. Erik Elam will serve as the Majority Staff Director of the Fisheries, Water and Wildlife Subcommittee, and Jason Suslavich and Kate Wolgemuth will both serve as Legislative Assistants. “Erik, Jason and Kate all bring unique skill sets to their respective jobs, and I am pleased they will be joining my team in Washington,” Sen. Sullivan said. “Their advice and experience on critical Alaska issues will be vital as we work to advance the state’s interests in the U.S. Senate.” Erik Elam most recently served as Legislative Director for Alaskan Congressman Don Young. In addition to the Subcommittee responsibilities, he will focus on energy, federal lands, fisheries, Coast Guard, and oceans. A graduate of the University of Dayton and George Mason University, Elam previously served in the Army National Guard as an Armor officer. Jason Suslavich previously served as a Senior Policy Advisor to Alaskan Congressman Don Young. A graduate of Johns Hopkins University, Suslavich will focus on military and veterans’ affairs committee work for Sen. Sullivan. Kate Wolgemuth most recently served as an Associate Director of State/Federal Relations in the Washington, DC Office of former Alaska Governor Sean Parnell and current Governor Bill Walker. A graduate of Colgate University, Wolgemuth will focus on education, health care, housing, and native affairs issues. ###
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Sullivan Statement on President Obama’s Veto of Keystone XL Pipeline WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today on President Obama’s veto of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. “I’m profoundly disappointed that yet again, as he’s done in Alaska, President Obama chose to cater to his small, radical environmental constituency, rather than listen to the voice of most reasonable Americans,” said Sen. Sullivan. “Keystone would create good jobs and it would strengthen American energy security through responsible development. That’s why it had bipartisan and union support. Even the President’s own State Department said that the project ‘would support a combined total of approximately 42,100 average annual jobs.’” “President Obama has talked a lot about helping working families across America. The project that the President just vetoed would have done that. Unfortunately, saying one thing to the American people, and doing another thing in D.C. is a pattern in this administration, one that Alaskans are all too familiar with.” ###
02.05.2015	02.05.15 Sullivan Announces Opening of Anchorage & Mat-Su District Offices WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced the opening of his Anchorage and Mat-Su district offices – which will serve as local hubs for constituent relations for their respective communities. “I am pleased to announce the opening of our Anchorage and Mat-Su offices,” Sen. Sullivan said. “Whether assisting a veteran with a VA claim, or helping a senior with their Social Security benefits, providing Alaskans with the help they need is one of the most important aspects of serving in the United States Senate.” Alaskans currently experiencing an issue with a federal agency should contact Senator Sullivan’s office for assistance. Acting as a liaison between the constituent and the federal government, Senator Sullivan and his staff can help answer questions, find resources, or resolve problems. Additional regional offices will be announced in the coming weeks. Anchorage 510 L Street, Suite 750 Anchorage, AK 99501 Phone: (907) 271-5915 Fax: (907) 258-9305 Mat-Su 851 E. Westpoint Drive, Suite 309 Wasilla, AK 99654 Phone: (907) 357-9956 Fax: (907) 357-9964 ###
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Sullivan Questions Secretary of Defense Nominee at Confirmation Hearing Sullivan Questions Secretary of Defense Nominee at Confirmation Hearing Senator discusses geostrategic importance of Alaska, timeline for defeating ISIS, threat of Iran with Dr. Carter WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today questioned Secretary of Defense nominee Dr. Ashton Carter on a variety of national security issues during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee. During the hearing, which stretched into the late afternoon – Sen. Sullivan asked Dr. Carter about Alaska’s geo-strategic importance, President Obama’s startling foreign policy statements in his State of the Union address, a timeline for defeating ISIS, the threat of Iran, and asked for a commitment from the Department of Defense to place a continued emphasis on training. Senator Sullivan opened his questioning of Dr. Carter with a history and geography question, asking the nominee if he knew what place the “father of the Air Force” Gen. Billy Mitchell was referring to when he said in 1935, “I believe that in the future, whoever holds [this place] – will hold the world. I think it is the most strategic place in the world.” Dr. Carter correctly answered Alaska, and noted that the strategic importance of the state is reflected in the missile defense assets found in the 49th state. (Click to watch Secretary of Defense nominee Dr. Carter answer Sen. Sullivan’s history/geography question) On the broader topic of national security and foreign policy, Sen. Sullivan continued his sharp critique of President Obama’s State of the Union Address, and asked Dr. Carter if he agreed with lines used by the President such as: “’the shadow of crisis has passed,’ ‘we’re stopping ISIL’s advance,’ ‘we’re opposing Russian aggression,’ and ‘we’ve halted the progress of Iran’s nuclear program.’” Sen. Sullivan emphasized that it’s “critical that the President, the administration level with the American people on our challenges.” (Click to watch Sen. Sullivan’s exchange with Dr. Carter on President Obama’s SOTU comments) Sen. Sullivan also pressed the Secretary of Defense nominee on the threat of Iran. Quoting Dr. Kissinger, who recently testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee, Sen. Sullivan asked Dr. Carter that if necessary, would he support the United States acting alone to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Carter said that he would. (click watch Sen. Sullivan & Dr. Carter’s full exchange on the threat of Iran, as well as Dr. Carter’s timeline for defeating ISIS) ###
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Murkowski, Sullivan: Denali Is ‘The Great One’s Rightful Name WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan today announced they have introduced legislation that would make “Denali” the official name of America’s tallest peak – the most widely-used designation of the 20,230 foot tall mountain given by the state’s Koyukon Athabascan residents (Deenaalee). The bill would reverse a century-old decision: 19th Century prospector William Dickey naming it after a President who never stepped foot in Alaska, William McKinley – and how it has since been ‘officially’ known and printed on maps and learning materials internationally. “Denali has long been known as the name for the great one, not only the tallest and largest mountain in Alaska but also all of North America,” said Murkowski. “Alaskans take great pride in this gorgeous natural monument, so it is important that we grant it its ancestral name to honor and respect our heritage as well as the lands through a name that goes back centuries. This is our Alaska, and this should be our decision.” "The Athabascan people of Alaska already named this great mountain thousands of years ago,” said Sullivan. “They called it Denali, the ‘Great One.’ Denali absolutely belongs to Alaska and its citizens – and with all due respect to my colleagues and the good people of Ohio, where President McKinley was born and where I have many friends and family, the mountain is not theirs to name. The naming rights already went to the Alaska Native ancestors of my wife and daughters’ people.”
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Sullivan Presses EPA Administrator on Proposed “Waters of the United States” Rule WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure today held a joint hearing to review the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (Army Corps) jointly proposed rule to redefine what are “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act (CWA). Given the significant amount of waterways and wetlands in Alaska already subject to regulatory requirements under the CWA, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) took the opportunity to question the EPA’s authority to broaden the definition of the “waters of the United States” without the consent of Congress, and requested that the EPA withdraw this proposed rule and start over. Citing recent U.S. Supreme Court cases, Sen. Sullivan told EPA Administrator McCarthy that “I don’t think this is a close call. I don’t think the EPA has the power to issue this regulation under the Constitution and the statute. I think you are trying to change the statute that clearly is a power that belongs to Congress. I want to work with you, but I want to request that you withdraw this regulation and start over,” said Sullivan. (Click to watch Sen. Sullivan question EPA Administrator McCarthy) Alaska is home to 63% of the nation’s jurisdictional waters (those waters subject to CWA regulatory requirements), and 65% of the nation’s wetlands. In total, 43% of Alaska’s lands are already considered wetlands. Under this rulemaking, these totals will certainly increase. The Resource Development Council for Alaska has predicted they could increase by as much as 40%. ###
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Let's win assault on Alaska together Most of us remember where we were when we first learned of some momentous event that seemed briefly to freeze history in time. Like many Alaskans, I’ll never forget where I was on 9/11. Many of us will never forget where we were when we learned that Sen. Ted Stevens was in the plane crash that took his life, or when Gov. Wally Hickel passed on. And I will never forget where I was when I heard that President Barack Obama was once again going to attempt to lock up millions of acres of Alaska land, thereby taking what could be billions of barrels of oil off the table, perhaps permanently. I was heading to Ft. Lewis-McChord, Washington, to train with my Marine Corps reserve unit when I got the news. The disconnect between what I was hearing on the phone and what I was preparing for couldn’t have been greater. It was all the more surreal because the announcement itself seemed completely divorced from reality, almost as if the president and a small group of insular advisers were trying to make up for their failed policies by enacting more job-killing failed policies, at the expense of all Alaskans and working families across the country. Here I was, about to train with some of the bravest young Americans our country has produced — willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to ensure the freedom and security of our nation in an uncertain world — and the president of the United States was announcing that he was in the process of stripping a state’s sovereignty, a state’s freedom, a state’s economic engine that also keeps our nation secure. I said then that President Obama’s actions are tantamount to declaring war on all Alaskans. That was not hyperbole. Many of you have heard about the impending land grab. But let me emphasize what’s at stake: If Obama gets his way, an additional 12.3 million acres of oil and gas rich land in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge will be designated as “wilderness,” which prevents responsible oil and gas development and even could prevent motorized vehicles. That acreage constitutes the last sliver of hope to drill in ANWR, and it will be taken off the table, perhaps forever. He’s also taking millions of acres of offshore leases off the table, and is trying to render uneconomic ConocoPhillips’ project in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, an area specifically set aside for oil and gas development. The president is robbing the state and the country of a future for our children and grandchildren, as well as national security, by stepping outside of his legal authority. Only Congress, not the president, has the authority to designate “wilderness” areas. But the president, through executive fiat, and without consulting the state, has said the area will be managed as wilderness anyway. This action clearly disregards the 1980 Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, where the government promised no more land lock-ups without congressional approval. It’s not the first time that the president has used dubious legal authority to lock up Alaska lands. He took much the same action when he took half of NPR-A off the table in 2012. It’s wrong. The president is overstepping his constitutional powers. The Constitution is not a mere suggestion. It is the foundation for the structure of our government and our individual liberties. I was speaking from the gut when I used the war metaphor. I wasn’t speaking as a Republican, or as a Marine, but as an Alaskan, who has as much at stake in the rise or the fall of our state as any one of us, who has three teenaged Alaskan daughters, an Alaskan wife, and a bevy of Alaskan relatives. And I’ll say this as your senator: I will fight with everything I have and do everything in my power in D.C. to stop President Obama’s assault on our state. I’ll do my best as your senator, but I need your help. Your whole congressional delegation, as well as your governor, your state legislature and its officials, all need your help. To be sure, we have significant power with a Republican-controlled House and Senate, Rep. Don Young’s seniority, Sen. Lisa Murkowski’s position as chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, and my committee assignments, including chair of the Fisheries, Water and Wildlife subcommittee. And we’ll make full use of that power. But in the end, our power is only as strong as the people who voted us into office. In the coming weeks and months, you’ll be hearing more from me on ways you can get involved. I’ll be sharing those plans with you by all means available, including regular entries on my Facebook page. Alaskans have been in tough battles before. We will win. We have to, when they take our land, they take security, our sovereignty and our soul. Remember: It’s our Alaska. By: Senator Dan Sullivan
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Sullivan Applauds Passage of Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate voted 99-0 to approve the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, of which he is a co-sponsor. The legislation will improve mental health care and suicide prevention resources for American servicemen and women. “As a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I believe Congress must do everything within its power to ensure the men and women of our Armed Forces are cared for when they return home,” said Sen. Sullivan. “The issue of suicide is an issue that I’ve seen up close and personal, and it is unacceptable that many are struggling to find needed care. This legislation is a down payment on advancing mental health – and I was proud to co-sponsor and cast my first vote in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee in support of the Clay Hunt SAV Act. Our veterans deserve it.” (To watch Sen. Sullivan’s entire floor speech, Click here.) Following a weekend trip to visit the 1st Stryker Brigade from Fairbanks, AK currently training at the National Training Center in Ft. Irwin, CA, Sen. Sullivan returned to the Senate floor and in a powerful speech, urged his colleagues to support the bipartisan suicide prevention bill. “I encourage all of my distinguished colleagues to vote for this bill tomorrow so we can get it on the President’s desk as soon as possible. This is a vote for Clay Hunt, for his courageous family, and for all families and their loves ones who have lost someone to the national tragedy of suicide. This vote is for my state—Alaska—which proudly boasts the highest number of veterans per capita in American, but sadly has the highest rates of suicide in the country.” “And this is also a personal vote for me. It’s story that I don’t share lightly or often. As an officer in the Marine Corps, both on active duty and in the reserves, I have personally witnessed the struggles – at times tragic -- that some of our servicemen and women undergo. “ “The suicide of an outstanding young Alaskan Marine under my command still haunts me. You always wonder, could I have done more. With the proper awareness and resources, this Marine might be alive today. That’s why we NEED legislation like the Clay Hunt bill.” The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Senator Sullivan Meets with Alaskan Troops over Super Bowl Sunday WASHINGTON, D.C. – Over the weekend, Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) travelled to the National Training Center, Ft. Irwin, CA to observe the 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division during the brigade’s training rotation. While at the National Training Center, Sen. Sullivan, who was accompanied by Major General Michael Shields, commander of U.S. Army Alaska, conducted a site visit to the brigade’s field headquarters, received a detailed rotational briefing, conducted a promotion, witnessed a night training exercise, and addressed his fellow Alaskans and thanked them for their service to our country. U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan, Col. Donn Hill, commander of 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team, and Maj. Gen. Michael H. Shields, Commanding General of U.S. Army Alaska, tour the tactical operations center area of Wolf Main, the brigade field headquarters at the National Training Center. (Photo courtesy of U.S. Army) “As many Alaskans gathered with their families last night to watch the Super Bowl, some of Alaska’s finest service men and women were training in the California desert,” said Sen. Sullivan. “I was honored to visit the National Training Center with Gen. Shields, and personally thank these brave men and women for their service to our country.” Col. Donn Hill, commander of 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team "Arctic Wolves", briefs U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan on the battle scenario the brigade is fighting at the National Training. (Photo courtesy of U.S. Army) “Seeing the Arctic Wolves up-close and in the field, confirmed their reputation as a premier U.S. Army Stryker brigade. I appreciated the opportunity to get briefed on their mission capabilities firsthand, and I look forward to visiting them back in Alaska in the near future.” Senator Dan Sullivan promotes Spc. Christopher Eckhardt with 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team "Arctic Wolves" to the rank of sergeant (Photo courtesy of U.S. Army) Approximately 4,000 “Arctic Wolves” from the 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division at Fort Wainwright, AK, as well as paratroopers from the 4-25th Airborne Infantry Brigade, have been deployed to the National Training Center for their 18 day readiness validation exercise rotation. ###
01.27.2015	01.27.15 Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) Maiden Speech Remarks prepared for delivery: Mr. President, today I stand in support of the Keystone Pipeline project. As an Alaskan, I feel it’s important to talk about this bill and the importance of American energy infrastructure. I live in a state with one of the world’s largest pipelines. In 1973, after bitter debate, similar to the debate about Keystone, Congress passed a bill that led to the construction of the trans-Alaska pipeline system– what we in Alaska call TAPS. It almost didn’t happen. The Vice President at the time, serving as the president of the Senate, cast the tie-breaking vote. Then, like now, opponents howled. They said TAPS would be an environmental disaster. They said bird and caribou populations would be decimated. But none of that happened. In fact, birds and caribou flourished showing that we can develop energy infrastructure responsibly with the highest standards in the world– and Alaska proves this every day. TAPS was completed in 1978. It has carried almost 17 billion barrels of oil to energy-thirsty American markets. It’s a technological and environmental marvel and a critical component of America’s energy infrastructure. It’s been a resounding success for this country, and for my state. It’s the engine of growth for Alaska’s economy, and has proved the safest most environmentally responsible way to transport oil is through a pipeline. I’m certain that Keystone will also prove a success. Mr. President, in supporting Keystone, I’m also standing for a larger, more important principle. The ideal that the federal government should be a partner in opportunity. A partner in progress. Not an obstacle. I’m standing in support of what has defined this country for centuries: The idea of the American dream. Mr. President, the American dream is still alive in my home state. Yes, we have major challenges like all states. But in Alaska, we still have hope, we still dream big dreams. And TAPS helps fuel these dreams. In Alaska, the very air you breathe is bathed in promise. The people still speak the language of bold ideas, and rugged adventure. And it’s these people of all colors all creeds who make up the tapestry of Alaska that gives us our strength. And it’s the enormous opportunities of our natural resources, whether world class fisheries or oil and gas reserves, that drive the economic engine of my state. But, despite this promise and opportunity, I also see anxiety, and frustration and even fear in the eyes of my fellow Alaskans. Just as I know others are seeing across the country. And despite what we’re hearing from this Administration, Americans have REAL reasons to feel this way. Business start-ups are at a 35 year low, as is the percentage of Americans actually looking for work. More small businesses failed than were started this past year. And over three quarters of Americans now believe that their kids' future will be less promising than their own. Mr. President, believing that we will leave our children a better tomorrow is the essence of the American dream. But for many that dream is starting to fade. This does not have to be. We live in a state and a country with so much untapped potential, so many opportunities, and so much promise that can bring limitless possibilities for our kids and our grandkids. And yet, in Alaska and throughout America, people are feeling the heavy hand of the federal government is not working in their interests. The boldness of America is being bludgeoned by bureaucrats. With new executive orders and regulations arising everywhere. And every time another one of those unneeded and often absurd regulations is promulgated, a little bit of hope dies. . . A little bit of hope dies every time a doctor’s office is shuttered or someone loses health insurance because of the complexities and costs of ObamaCare. A little hope dies when a rural community wants to build a road that will protect its citizens and is told by the Secretary of Interior that birds are more important than their lives. 4 An A LOT of hope dies when the people in my state are told that the resources that are rightfully theirs can’t be developed, and their lands and waters can’t be fished and hunted to put food on their table. Mr. President, I support the Keystone Pipeline. It will thousands of jobs. That's why it has the overwhelming support of American labor unions. It will enhance America's energy infrastructure and contribute billions to our economy. That's why it has the support of the American people. But just one bill, one pipeline, one project, is not enough. It isn’t nearly enough. Since the founding of this country, we’ve had important debates right here on this floor about the role of the federal government in our lives. And judging from what Americans are telling us, the reach of the federal government has hit its limits. It’s exceeded its limits. Our citizens are telling us that their government – and it is their government – has gone well beyond deriving its powers from the consent of the governed. What the American people are telling us—what Alaskans are telling me—is that they want a federal government that helps ignite their hope, not smother it. Mr. President, we have a job to do. We must work to address the anxiety and frustration of the people we serve. We must work to once again unleash the great potential that is Alaska and America and we must work to reinvigorate faith in the American dream. How do we do this? 5 Let me suggest a few ideas: First – We MUST stop delaying economic projects that benefit our citizens. Purposeful delay and roadblocks have been the hallmark of this Administration’s approach to infrastructure projects that benefit Americans. And Alaska has been ground zero for such delays: bridges, roads, mines that take years simply to permit – not to build; oil wells that cannot be drilled on federal lands despite billions of dollars of leases from the private sector to the federal government; a state-of-the-art clean coal plant that sits idle—for over a decade – despite the dire need for lower cost energy throughout Alaska. The Keystone Pipeline– a project that has been studied for six years – is just the latest example of the willful delay that has been the weapon of choice for this Administration for killing projects that they don't like. Enough is enough. We're Americans! We know what we are capable of! We built the 1,700 mile Alaska- Canadian Highway – the ALCAN highway through some of the world’s most rugged terrain in less than a year. We built the Empire State Building in 410 Days. The Pentagon, we built it in 16 months. Mr. President, there is NO reason that Keystone should have been studied for six years. If the Executive branch continues to dither on America’s economic future – Congress can and should act to expedite such projects. That’s what we’re doing with Keystone and that’s what I will be pressing the Congress to do for Alaska’s and America's next great energy infrastructure project – the Alaska LNG Project, which will create thousands of jobs and provide clean, and affordable energy to Americans and our allies for decades. Second –We need more, not less, access to our federal lands. As Americans, these are OUR lands – we own them – they are not the Department of Interior's or BLM's. Yet, this Administration is adamant on keeping us from responsibly developing them. Once again, Alaska is ground zero for their efforts. Through Executive orders of dubious legal merit, this Administration locked up half of the National Petroleum Reserve of Alaska. This isn’t a national park. NPR-A is an area specifically set aside, by Congress, for oil and gas development. And just this weekend, in another brazen action, the Obama Administration announced that they are working to lock up millions of acres of land on Alaska’s coastal plain – some of the nation’s richest oil and gas prospects. This is an affront to Alaskans and Americans who cherish security, energy security, the rule of law and the strength of our nation. And it’s an affront to members of Congress, regardless of party. How we develop Alaska's lands is an area where Congress – not the Executive – has preeminent authority. I think the Obama Administration needs a reminder of what Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution states: “The Congress shall have the Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States.” 7 This brings me to my third point. We must get back to the rule of law. The rule of law, carefully built up and nurtured for centuries in America, is a fundamental pillar of our great nation. Most countries don't have it. We do. It’s a gift. But if we continue to erode this rule of law, we ultimately undermine what it means to be American. And it will be hard to get back. But I have hope. Because there are still enough of us who respect the rule of law and who see the Constitution not as a mere suggestion, but as THE foundation for the structure of our government and our individual liberties. There have been cracks in the foundation recently. But the people sent us here to repair those cracks. Fourth – While I believe in a limited federal government, it is important to recognize that where the federal government does have responsibilities, it needs to carry out its duties with more efficiency and compassion – particularly towards the most vulnerable in society. This is especially true when it comes to honoring the sacred trust of responsibility we have towards our veterans. And that’s why I’ve co-sponsored the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention bill. I’m confident that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will quickly vote on this important measure and move it on to the President’s desk. It’s also why I will support effective programs where the federal government and states can work together to address our problems throughout this country with regard to sexual assault and domestic violence. 8 Fifth And Finally– We MUST challenge the conventional wisdom, that has existed in this town for decades—that the federal government’s power, and intrusiveness should always be expanding – like some inevitable force of nature. Nowhere is this more important than reforming the overgrown regulatory thicket that strangles our future. According to the President’s own Small Business Administration, federal regulations impose an annual burden on our economy of close to $2 trillion dollars. That’s roughly $15,000 dollars per year, per American family. Federal regulations are sapping our strength as a nation. So many of them don’t make sense, and others are not authorized by law or the Constitution as they MUST be. And increasingly those who promulgate and enforce them are showing less and less restraint for the well-being of our citizens. The recent Obama Administration ANWR assault is the latest example. And I will use all my power to protect the economic growth and prosperity of Alaska. That is why I have already filed amendments with Senator Murkowski to rescind the Obama Administration’s ANWR order. I’ve also filed an amendment that seeks to check another abuse of federal power. Mr. President, When the EPA was initially authorized in 1970, no one thought it necessary to arm its employees with weapons. But today in a classic case of federal government power creep, 200 armed EPA, close to 200, armed EPA agents are roaming our country. 9 It’s a disturbing fact. But it was particularly disturbing for the small group of miners, who, during the summer of 2013, prospecting for gold in Chicken, Alaska, were swarmed by armed EPA agents. This wasn’t some huge mining conglomerate. This was a small, placer miner operation in Interior Alaska. Sluice boxes with specks of Alaska gold… and EPA agents armed with rifles, shotguns, body armor, helicopter overhead, looking for Clean Water Act violations. They found none, and apart from terrifying the miners, they accomplished nothing. Mr. President, as Alaska's former Attorney General and Commissioner of Natural Resources, I have worked with many fine federal agents, and I understand the importance of sensible regulations that are based on the directives of Congress. But problems arise when regulations become excessive. And big problems arise when regulators are given guns to enforce those regulations. It’s our responsibility to say enough – to stand up for those we serve –and to roll back federal power when necessary. Mr. President. I’m all for a country with an armed citizenry. As a Marine, I’ve taken an oath to defend and fight for this critical Constitutional freedom. 10 However, I am NOT for a country with an armed bureaucracy. Let’s give my state, and the rest of the country, a little hope that we are doing the jobs that they sent us here to do. One concrete step in that direction would be to pass the simple amendment I am offering—to disarm the EPA. They can certainly do their jobs without having guns – they have done so in the past, and they should be able to do so in the future. Finally, let me close with a few words about how I view my mission here. I suspect it doesn’t differ greatly from what most of us hope to accomplish. We all want the best for the people we serve and for the states we represent. We want to be strong here at home which will help us be respected once again by our allies and feared by our adversaries. We want our children to be safe and secure and we want the same for our neighbor. We want to live in a country of unlimited opportunity, a country of Alaska-sized dreams. We want a government that holds dear what our founding fathers knew – that all powers are derived from the consent of the governed. And I think most of us can agree that we must unleash our country’s enormous economic potential once again. 11 I believe our government should be helping us, not hindering us, achieve these efforts. And I believe that unlocking our country’s vast energy potential is one of the best ways to reignite the American dream. Mr. President, despite challenges, despite big-government’s creep into our lives, despite even armed EPA agents, we continue to live in the greatest country in the world. In the history of the world. There is NO doubt about that. The people who sent us here still have big dreams and big hopes. Let’s help those dreams grow and their hopes flourish. Thank you. I yield the floor.
01.27.2015	01.27.15 Air Force Chief of Staff to Sullivan: Eielson AFB Continues to Be Leading Candidate for F-35 in Pacific WASHINGTON, D.C. – Armed Services Committee member Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today highlighted to the Chiefs of Staff of the four military branches, the military and geo-strategic importance of Alaska, and mentioned to his fellow Armed Services Committee colleagues that they will be hearing about Alaska’s important national security role often. During the hearing, Sen. Sullivan pressed U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff General Mark Welsh on the latest news regarding the potential basing of two squadrons of F-35s at Eielson Air Force Base. Gen. Welsh agreed with Sen. Sullivan on the strategic benefits of a strong military presence in Alaska and the training capabilities at the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex (JPARC) – which, according to Gen. Welsh have been reflected in the “F-22 beddown already made, tanker beddown already made, and now the consideration of Eielson as the leading candidate for our Pacific [F-35] beddown.” (Click above to watch clip) In response to Sullivan’s initial questioning on sequestration, Gen. Welsh testified that while the budget cuts might defer F-35 aircraft orders in FY2016, it would not put the initial operational capabilities at risk. Sen. Sullivan also questioned U.S. Army Chief of Staff General Ray Odierno. Sen. Sullivan asked the General about the correlation between sequestration and proposed troop level reductions throughout the U.S. Army – including potential cuts to brigades currently based at Ft. Wainwright and Joint Base Elmendorf – Richardson. (Click above to watch clip) Gen. Odierno responded that troop reductions are, “a direct result” of the U.S. Army preparing for sequestration. ###
01.26.2015	01.26.15 Sullivan Delivers Maiden Speech as U.S. Senator Highlights need to stop project delays, access federal land, respect the rule of law and roll back regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) delivered his maiden address to the U.S. Senate today, expressing his support of the Keystone XL Pipeline, his outrage over the Obama administration’s latest actions on ANWR, and highlighted his agenda for the 114th Congress. (Click above to watch video) “Mr. President, in supporting Keystone, I’m also standing for a larger, more important principle, said Sen. Sullivan. “The ideal that the federal government should be a partner in opportunity, a partner in progress, not an obstacle. I’m standing in support of what has defined this country for centuries: The idea of the American dream. Mr. President, the American dream is still alive in my home state. Yes, we have major challenges like all states. But in Alaska, we still have hope, we still dream big dreams.” Sullivan noted that simply passing one infrastructure and job bill isn’t enough. Congress must stop project delays, increase access to federal lands, respect the rule of law, and begin to roll back job-killing regulations. (Click above to watch video) “Since the founding of this country, we’ve had important debates right here on this floor about the role of the federal government in our lives,” Sen. Sullivan said. “And judging from what Americans are telling us, the reach of the federal government has hit its limits. It’s exceeded its limits. Our citizens are telling us that their government – and it is their government – has gone well beyond deriving its powers from the consent of the governed. What the American people are telling us—what Alaskans are telling me—is that they want a federal government that helps ignite their hope, not smother it.” Sullivan also discussed his amendment to the Keystone XL Pipeline bill that would disarm Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) personnel from carrying firearms. “I’m all for a country with an armed citizenry. As a Marine, I’ve taken an oath to defend and fight for this Constitutional freedom,” said Sen. Sullivan. “However, I am not for a country with an armed bureaucracy.” He also addressed the recent action by the Obama administration to designate millions of acres of Alaska’s coastal plain in ANWR as wilderness. “I will use all my power to protect the economic growth and prosperity of Alaska,” Sen. Sullivan said. “That is why I have already filed amendments with Sen. Murkowski to rescind the Obama administration’s ANWR order.” Sullivan’s speech was attended by many of his Senate colleagues, and after completion of his speech, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Sen. Dan Coats (R-IN) all spoke on the Senate floor and congratulated him on his maiden speech. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) presided over the Senate during Sullivan’s address, and afterward Sen. Cruz congratulated him on the speech, particularly his emphasis of “Alaska sized dreams.” Sen. Sullivan’s remarks as prepared for delivery, are attached. To view Sen. Sullivan’s entire speech: click here. ###
01.25.2015	01.25.15 Murkowski, Sullivan, & Young Vow to Fight President Obama’s Assault on Alaska WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan, and Rep. Don Young today held a press conference to discuss their plans to work together to reverse the Obama administration’s decision to further block access to Alaska’s oil and natural gas resources in federal areas. Click to view the video of press conference The administration on Sunday announced it was recommending that nearly all of the 19.6 million acre Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) be placed into wilderness status – a move that would lock up the nation’s richest oil prospect. Interior Department officials also said the upcoming 2017-2022 offshore leasing plan would include withdrawals in Alaska’s arctic waters. The administration is also considering additional actions that would prevent new production in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A). “It is a one, two, three kick to the gut of Alaska’s economy,” Sen. Murkowski said of the multiple actions being taken by the Obama administration this week. “We have said as a delegation that we will not stand it, we will not tolerate it, we will do everything we can to push back against an administration that has taken a look at Alaska and decided it’s a ‘nice little snow globe up there and we’re going to keep it that way.’ That’s not how you treat a state. Show us some respect.” Sen. Sullivan vowed to carry the fight to the administration to protect Alaska’s economy and sovereignty. “Today I stood with Sen. Murkowski and Congressman Young united in defeating this outrageous action from President Obama,” Sen. Sullivan said. “This attack on Alaska families and the middle class is deeply troubling. I pledge to do everything in my power to protect the economic growth and prosperity of our state, and defend the promises made to Alaskans under ANILCA.” Rep. Young was also sharply critical of the administration and its latest attacks on Alaska, calling the wilderness push in ANWR a violation of existing law. “This brazen assault on Alaska only strengthens our resolve to push back. This latest decision, in clear violation of ANILCA’s ‘no more’ clauses, completely undermines the law and the many promises made to the Alaskan people,” Rep. Young said. “This is unacceptable and I am already beginning work in the House to ensure this assault is stopped dead in its tracks.” Full archived video of the press conference is available on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee website. ###
01.24.2015	01.24.15 Obama, Jewell Declaring War on Alaska’s Future WASHINGTON, D.C. – Alaska’s Congressional Delegation and Gov. Bill Walker today denounced President Obama and Interior Secretary Sally Jewell for launching an unprecedented assault on Alaska that will have long-lasting effects on the state’s economy and the nation’s energy security. In coordination with the White House, Secretary Jewell will announce this week – starting today – that she will lock up millions of acres of the nation’s richest oil and natural gas prospects on the Arctic coastal plain and move to block development of Alaska’s offshore resources. The administration is also weighing additional actions in the near future that would prevent new production in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska. “What’s coming is a stunning attack on our sovereignty and our ability to develop a strong economy that allows us, our children and our grandchildren to thrive,” Sen. Murkowski said. “It’s clear this administration does not care about us, and sees us as nothing but a territory. The promises made to us at statehood, and since then, mean absolutely nothing to them. I cannot understand why this administration is willing to negotiate with Iran, but not Alaska. But we will not be run over like this. We will fight back with every resource at our disposal.” “This outrageous action confirms what most Alaskans have feared – that the Obama administration’s war against Alaska families and the middle class would only intensify under the final two years of President Obama’s tenure. But Alaskans have been in tough battles before. We will defeat their lawless attempt to designate ANWR as a wilderness, as well as their ultimate goal of making Alaska one big national park. This decision disregards the rule of law and our constitution and specifically ignores many promises made to Alaska in ANILCA. It is just one more example of President Obama thumbing his nose at the citizens of a sovereign state – and will put Alaska and America’s energy security in serious jeopardy,” Sen. Sullivan said. “I stand united with Sen. Murkowski, Congressman Young, Governor Walker and the members of the Alaska State Legislature to vigilantly safeguard and defend our fellow Alaskans’ interests, and I pledge to do everything in my power to fight back against this assault on Alaska’s economic future.” “This callously planned and politically motivated attack on Alaska by the Obama administration is akin to spitting in our faces and telling us it’s raining outside. As if on command from the most extreme environmentalist elements, this president and his team of D.C. bureaucrats believe they alone know what’s best for Alaska, but this brazen assault on our state and our people will do the complete opposite,” Rep. Young said. “Every time the president undermines the law of the land, he breaks his oath of office and weakens the nation we love. This latest move, in clear violation of ANILCA’s 'no more' clause, and despite the fierce opposition of every Alaska statewide elected official and the vast majority of our people, demonstrates that the Imperial Presidency of Barack Obama knows no bounds. Simply put, this wholesale land grab, this widespread attack on our people and our way of life, is disgusting.” The Interior Department plans to immediately begin managing the 1.5 million acre coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) as wilderness – adding to the 18 million acres of ANWR already designated wilderness. This management status will prohibit even motorized access to the coastal plain. Gov. Walker was outraged by the Obama administration’s actions at a time when the state is drawing down more than $10 million from savings every day due to low oil prices and declining production despite having more than 40 billion barrels of untapped resources, mostly in federal areas where oil and gas activity is blocked or restricted. “Having just given to Alaskans the State of the State and State of the Budget addresses, it’s clear that our fiscal challenges in both the short and long term would benefit significantly from increased oil production,” Gov. Walker said. “This action by the federal government is a major setback toward reaching that goal. Therefore, I will consider accelerating the options available to us to increase oil exploration and production on state-owned lands. This further underscores the need for Alaska to become a participant in the infrastructure development for the benefit of all North Slope participants and the residents of Alaska.” Wilderness status would permanently place off-limits the United States’ most promising onshore oil prospect and severely restrict access for subsistence hunters and other uses of the area. Under the terms of the 1980 Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA), additional wilderness designations are barred in Alaska without the express approval of Congress. Secretary Jewell also said that President Obama plans to indefinitely withdraw areas in the offshore Arctic from oil and gas leasing in the new five-year plan being released later this week, which will effectively ban development in large swaths of the Chukchi and Beaufort seas. It is unclear how these new restrictions will affect areas already under lease by Shell, ConocoPhillips and Statoil. Sen. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which together have oversight of the Interior Department’s underlying legislative authority, nominations, and budget. “These decisions simply cannot be allowed to stand,” Sen. Murkowski said. “I have tried to work with this administration – even though they’ve made it extremely difficult every step of the way – but those days are officially over. We are left with no choice but to hit back as hard as we can.” ###
01.18.2015	01.18.15 Sullivan Remembers Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) released the following statement today in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. "All of our lives were forever changed by Dr. Martin Luther King’s cause for freedom. No matter how old we are, what our station in life, what country we were born in, or the color of our skin, today is a day to reflect on how one man, fighting for right against might, can change the arc of history to create a more perfect union. "It’s also a day to recall the many Alaskans who fought to pass the first civil rights bill in the country. "In Alaska, nearly 20 years before the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, brave Alaskans, led by Alaska Natives, stood up to say 'No' to ignorance and fought to pass the Anti-Discrimination Act of 1945. "No matter how far we’ve come, we can always do better, and you can be sure that I’ll do what I can to continue to erase all traces of the scourge of racism and bigotry in our state and our country. Please know that my door is always open -- none of us can do it alone, but we can do it together. “As Dr. King taught us, the 'the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.' "As Alaskans, we are unique witnesses to that arc. Let’s steepen the bend, together." ###
01.15.2015	01.15.15 Senators Murkowski, Sullivan Re-Activating Southeast Office Network Regional Staff in Process of Being Hired to Respond to Constituents WASHINGTON, DC – Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan today announced that their Ketchikan and Juneau offices will be reopening soon, with the two coordinating their efforts to share a full-time staffer in each location to keep costs down. “Alaskans deserve to have their views heard and their needs responded to, but they also deserve to know that we are responsibly spending their tax dollars to do so,” said the Senators. “From social security to the U.S. Postal Service to the issues on the floor of the Senate, we have an open door policy for each and every Alaskan to share their viewpoint and we are pleased to be able to have those doors open in these two communities.” Senators Murkowski and Sullivan are presently working to interview candidates to fill positions for their delegation offices. These local representatives will act as the Senator’s eyes and ears on the ground and report back on issues important to constituents throughout the region. They are also responsible for assisting constituents with specific concerns and problems with federal agencies and offices. At a future date to be determined soon, Senators Murkowski and Sullivan will officially open their offices at: 800 Glacier Avenue 1900 First Avenue Suite 101 Suite 225 Juneau, AK 99801 Ketchikan, AK 99901 586-7277 225-6880
01.15.2015	01.15.15 Sullivan Announces Additional Hires in Alaska & DC Offices WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today announced additional staff hires for his U.S. Senate offices in Alaska and Washington, DC. Kathlene Rowell will serve as State Director, Mike Fleagle as Alaska Deputy Chief of Staff, and Paul “Otto” Feather as Senior Advisor for Military and Veterans’ Affairs and Mat-Su Regional Director. Washington, DC hires include Peter Henry as Legislative Director, Robyn Engibous as Deputy Chief of Staff, Ryan Ringel as Director of Administration and Technology and Liz Banicki as Assistant to the Chief of Staff. Alaska: “I am excited to continue working with Kathlene and Otto – who were both instrumental over the past year,” said Sullivan. “Additionally, I’m proud to welcome Mike on board to round out my senior staff in Alaska. They all bring unique and extensive backgrounds to their respective jobs, and will be enormous assets as we build out our Alaska offices.” Kathlene Rowell, of Palmer, AK, previously served as special assistant to Sullivan on his campaign as well as at the Alaska Department of Natural Resources. A graduate of Alaska Pacific University, Rowell has also worked for the Division of Parks and Outdoor Recreation at the Alaska Department of Natural Resources. Mike Fleagle, of Anchorage, AK, joins Senator Sullivan’s office from the Municipality of Anchorage, were he served as Superintendent. Fleagle has over 14 years’ experience in appointed leadership for fish and wildlife management in Alaska, including the Alaska State Chairman of the Board of Game and the Chairman of the Federal Subsistence Board. He is a member of the Doyon, Limited Board of Directors, and has also worked for the McGrath Bulk Fuel Association and McGrath Native Village Council. Colonel Paul “Otto” Feather (USAF Ret.), of Meadow Lakes, AK, is a 31 year veteran, and most recently worked as road manager and veterans outreach coordinator on Sullivan’s campaign. During his three decades of service, Feather served combat command tours in Afghanistan and Iraq and as the Deputy Director of Operations in the White House Military Office. Feather completed two tours at Elmendorf AFB, AK and has called Alaska home since 1998. Most recently, he commanded Yokota Air Base in Japan. Feather is a graduate of Wright State University, and received masters degrees from Webster University, Air Command and Staff College and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. Washington, DC: “Experience in the halls of the Senate is essential to a productive office,” said Sullivan. “I am honored to welcome Liz, Peter, Robyn and Ryan to my Washington, DC office – and I am confident that they will serve the people of Alaska well as we begin to advance Alaska’s and America’s interests in the U.S. Senate.” Robyn Engibous of Anchorage, AK, previously served as finance director on Sullivan’s campaign. A graduate of Marquette University, Robyn is a veteran of the 2012 Romney campaign and 2008 Republican National Convention. Prior to working at the convention, she worked in Washington, DC at the U.S. Department of State and in the office of the late Senator Ted Stevens. She has also served as co-executive director of the Ted Stevens Foundation. Peter Henry, of Washington, DC, most recently served as a professional staff member on the Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works – focusing on surface transportation issues. A graduate of Colby College, Henry has a decade of experience working on Capitol Hill -- working for Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) and former Senator Kit Bond (R-MO). Ryan Ringel of Alexandria, VA, joins Sullivan from Senator Mike Crapo’s (R-ID) office. A graduate of Boise State University, Ringel has over 16 years of experience working in the U.S. Senate, previously serving as Systems Administrator for Senator Crapo. Liz Banicki of Eagle River, AK, most recently served as statewide field director on Sullivan's campaign. She returns to Capitol Hill after having previously worked in the office of Alaskan Congressman Don Young. Banicki is a graduate of the University of Portland, and is a two-time Fulbright Scholarship grantee to Germany and Austria. ###
01.06.2015	01.06.15 Dan Sullivan sworn in as Alaska's new senator Republican U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan was sworn in at the start of the new Congress on Tuesday, becoming Alaska's junior senator. Republican U.S. Sen. Dan Sullivan was sworn in at the start of the new Congress on Tuesday, becoming Alaska's junior senator. An Alaska contingent that included Gov. Bill Walker and state lawmakers were in Washington, D.C., for the event. Sullivan said he was honored and humbled by the turnout. He said the joke was that the "Alaskainvasion" — which he numbered at more than 200 people — brought with it the snow that blanketed the area Tuesday. Sullivan, a former state attorney general and Natural Resources commissioner, rounds out an all-Republican congressional delegation for Alaska that also includes Sen. Lisa Murkowski and Rep. Don Young. Sullivan defeated first-term incumbent Democrat Mark Begich by about 6,000 votes in November. The race was contentious and closely watched nationally as Republicans sought to wrest back control of the Senate, which they ultimately did. One of Sullivan's first orders of business was signing on as a co-sponsor to legislation, which the White House threatened to veto, that would approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline. Sullivan said moving forward with the project — which would move tar sands oil from Canada to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast — would be good for the country and for jobs and show that the U.S. is willing to move forward on a broader energy policy. President Barack Obama has said the project would benefit Canadian oil companies but would not be a huge benefit to American consumers. Sullivan said it's important to look at energy markets regionally and geographically, from a North America perspective. Sullivan said he is excited to get to work and pleased with his committee assignments, which he said were his top picks. Sullivan will serve on the committees of Commerce, Science and Transportation; Environment and Public Works; Armed Services; and Veterans' Affairs. Sullivan is a Marine Corps reservist. He said his priorities include moving the economy ahead through less regulation. He said he doesn't think agencies like the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are challenged enough in their issuance of regulations, and he plans to ask them what their specific authority is for any new regulations they impose. That's a basic question that doesn't get asked enough, he said. He also said he wants to ensure that veterans are cared for and to keep on top of efforts to reduce the backlog for care within the Veterans Affairs system. Sullivan said the plan is for his daughters to finish out the school year in Alaska; his eldest, he said, is a high school senior. Source: The Associated Press
