03.07.2019	Washington, DC –Today, members of the Problem Solvers Caucus amended HR 1 by utilizing a new rule included in the “Break the Gridlock” rules package negotiated with House leadership and implemented this Congress. The House Committee on Rules gave preference to this amendment because at least 20 Democrats and 20 Republicans cosponsored it, per Problem Solvers Caucus implemented rules change. “In the first adherence by the Rules Committee to the 20/20 rule, my colleagues on the Problem Solvers Caucus have shown that bipartisanship works. By working with Republicans and Democrats, in and out of the Caucus, we were able to demonstrate that Democrats and Republicans can work together on an issue important to the integrity of our institutions. I urge members of Congress to continue utilizing the 20/20 rule, so we can once again work for the American people in a bipartisan way.” said Congressman Tom Suozzi (NY-03). “I want to thank Representatives Gottheimer, Reed, Fitzpatrick and the rest of the Problem Solvers for their leadership on this issue, as well as Chairman McGovern and the Rules Committee for working with us to foster a bipartisan process.” “I am proud to join the Problem Solvers Caucus in exercising provisions of our ‘Break the Gridlock’ rules package to protect American elections from foreign interference,” said Fitzpatrick. “The amendment proposed by the Problem Solvers Caucus not only promotes transparency in our nation’s electoral process but is proof that governing in a bipartisan and civil manner is the most effective way to produce results for the American people,” said Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01). Congressman Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05). said, "Our democracy is founded on the central premise that every American has a voice in determining our leaders, without influence from foreign governments. This amendment, which Problem Solver Vice Chairs Suozzi and Fitzpatrick so aptly led, will help drive corruption, dark money, and foreign influence out of our elections. This is the first use of the Break the Gridlock bipartisan amendment rules. I'm proud to take bipartisan steps to further strengthen this bill and increase the transparency of our electoral process.” “For years the House floor was controlled by a select few preventing most Members of Congress from bringing their ideas and proposals to the House floor for a fair up or down vote. As seen today, this is no longer the case. The Problem Solvers Caucus is stepping up and developing the muscle memory through the recently achieved rule changes to achieve bipartisan victories. We encourage rank and file members outside of our group to embrace these new rules as well, so we can all work more efficiently to solve problems for the people back home,” said Congressman Tom Reed (NY-23). “The recent foreign interference in our elections has shaken Americans’ faith in our democratic institutions,” said Rep. Carbajal. “I’m grateful to see such robust bipartisan support for a proposal every citizen can get behind – our elections should be determined by voters, not bought by foreign money,” said Congressman Salud Carbajal (CA-24). “When bipartisanship works, the government works,” Congressman Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) said. “This 20/20 rule allows Democrats and Republicans to come together and ensure that the legislation we consider on the House Floor addresses the needs and wants of the American people. Today, I stand proud as a member of the Problem Solvers Caucus and thank the bipartisan leadership who is paving the way for functional government.” “Regardless of what political party you belong to, partisanship prevents us from addressing the challenges facing our county,” said Rep. Dave Joyce. “Thankfully, there are avenues in place for Members who prioritize effective lawmaking and fairly evaluate ideas outside of their party to best represent their constituents. I’m pleased that we have both Republicans and Democrats coming together to offer this important amendment to root out illicit foreign money in our elections,” said Congressman David Joyce (OH-14). “At the beginning of this Congress, I was able to contribute to the enactment of real changes to the rules of the House to help make government more functional for the people we represent. I’m proud of the work we did, and now we are seeing the results in action. I'm pleased to see so many Democrats and Republicans come together on a bipartisan amendment to combat foreign spending in our elections, which is necessary to maintain the integrity of our electoral process. I look forward to continuing the work we’ve started to help bring all Members of the House - Democrats and Republicans alike - together for commonsense solutions that benefit the American people,"said Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03). “This is a prime example of why we fought so hard to give Democrats and Republicans a path to provide bipartisan input on legislation. This is not just good policy, but it’s also good governing. The integrity of our democratic process is paramount, and I am proud to work together to protect these institutions from outside or foreign influence,” said Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL-07). “Americans, and only Americans, should decide our elections,” said Congressman Dean Phillips (MN-03). “That’s just common sense and foundational to our democracy. I’m proud to stand with my bipartisan colleagues to protect the sanctity of our elections. This is the meaningful work Americans expect from Congress, and I’m proud to deliver on that promise today.” “The American people have been loud and clear—we need to get corruption out of government and dark money out of politics. Foreign actors seeking to illegally influence our elections represent a direct attack to our homeland, and this bipartisan amendment is a critical step in fighting back,” said Congressman Max Rose (NY-11). “Keeping foreign money and influence out of American politics should be a priority for everyone. This amendment is a perfect example of the good policy that can come from working together. I applaud and thank my colleagues for all their work on this amendment and in successfully implementing the new 20/20 bipartisanship rule,” said Congressman Kurt Schrader (OR-05). “As someone who has spent my career in public service identifying potential threats to the safety and security of the American people, I recognize that there are foreign threats targeting our foundational institutions—including our voting process,” said Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger (VA-07). “We must take steps to prevent foreign influence in our democratic process. That’s why I am proud to cosponsor this much-needed, bipartisan amendment. This amendment would strengthen the integrity of our elections and help shed light on the prevalence of foreign attempts to influence our democracy.” “The amendment to H.R. 1 demonstrates the influence of the Problem Solvers Caucus’ efforts to actually make Congress work for the American people,” Upton said. “I’m proud of our bipartisan efforts in the People’s House and will keep working with members of both parties to deliver real results for the folks back home,” said Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06). The “Break the Gridlock” rules package rewards openness and transparency, encourages a willingness to reach across the aisle, creates debate on divisive issues, and empowers lawmakers to find real solutions concerning our nation's most pressing matters. The amendment, which is sponsored by 24 Democrats and 20 Republicans, would require the Federal Elections Commissions to conduct a random audit after each Federal election cycle to determine the incidence of illicit foreign money in the election. Within 180 Days of an election, the FEC would the submit to Congress a report containing audit results and recommendation to address the presence of illicit foreign money. Polls have shown that illicit foreign donations in campaigns are of great concern to the American people. This amendment which seeks to combat this issue, is not only supported by a clear majority of the Problem Solvers Caucus, but by other Members of Congress who are not a part of the Caucus.
03.06.2019	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement on legislation he co-sponsored to combat the opioid epidemic by cracking down on the production and import of deadly fentanyl made in China: “The statistics surrounding the deadly drug fentanyl are staggering. The opioid is now the most frequent cause of drug overdose cases, accounting for more than 20,000 deaths every year. I’ve met with many families who’ve lost loved ones to this highly potent drug and we must do everything we can to get it off our streets. I’m proud to support this legislation to hold those accountable in China who make it available illegally in the US.”
03.06.2019	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) held his annual “All-American Boy and Girl Program” awards ceremony for 7th and 8th grade students Monday night at Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills. One hundred finalists were recognized at the event out of the more than 1,000 students who applied for the award. The top 100 underwent formal interviews with a panel of judges, who then selected first, second, and third place winners in each category. Criteria for the award includes academic achievement, community involvement, and extracurricular activities. “The All-American Boy and Girl Program awards ceremony is one of my favorite events every year,” said Lipinski. “This is a program with a long, rich tradition and it makes me so proud every time I come in contact with a former award winner who has gone on to have great success in life. This year’s finalists have all worked very hard in and out of the classroom making a difference in their communities and I commend them on all they’ve been able to accomplish at such a young age. Congratulation to all of our winners as well as their families, teachers, coaches, clergy, friends, and others who have helped them to become well-rounded young men and women. They are destined to do great things.” The top students in each grade are: • Seventh Grade Girls: Tegan Taff – St. Cajetan (1st Place); Emily Amann – St. Dennis (2nd Place); Alessandra Sarno – St. Alphonsus / St. Patrick (3rd Place) • Seventh Grade Boys: Sean Dusak – St. Joseph of Lockport (1st Place); John Paul Ramirez – Everest Academy (2nd Place); Seamus Hanley – St. Catherine (3rd Place) • Eighth Grade Girls: Taylor Curran – St. Catherine (1st Place); Demetra Katerina Feradouros – Koreas Elementary School (2nd Place); Ciara Hosty – St. Gerald (3rd Place) • Eighth Grade Boys: Conor Zech – St. John of the Cross (1st Place); Max Kulaga – St. Cyril and Methodius School (2nd Place), John Vranas – Koreas Elementary (3rd place – tie); Allan Potter – Mt. Greenwood Elementary (3rd Place – tie) Each finalist was awarded a certificate for their hard work and superior essay. The 13 winners were given a plaque and a gift card. Guest speakers at the event included State Rep. Kelly Burke (D-Evergreen Park) and Summit Mayor Sergio Rodriguez.
03.04.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), and U.S. Representatives Bill Foster (D-IL-11), Dan Lipinski (D-IL-03), Brad Schneider (D-IL-10), and Sean Casten (D-IL-06) today requested that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) conduct another site-specific Health Consultation for Willowbrook, Illinois, based on the most recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ethylene oxide (EtO) ambient air measurements from November 2018 – February 2019 at Sterigenics, Inc. Given concerning new data that revealed extremely high levels of EtO was being emitted from the facility, the members requested that an updated site-specific Health Consultation for Sterigenics be prioritized and conducted by ATSDR as soon as possible. The last time ATSDR did a health consultation report, it used U.S. EPA data from May 2018. “Since that 2018 report, Sterigenics has installed pollution control equipment to reconnect a back vent that was responsible for additional EtO released to the atmosphere. However, over the last few months, the U.S. EPA has taken new measurements which clearly indicate that Sterigenics has still been pumping elevated concentrations of EtO into the Willowbrook community following that change,” the members wrote. “Given this concerning new data, we request that an updated site-specific Health Consultation for Sterigenics be prioritized and conducted by ATSDR as soon as possible.” Last month, Durbin, Duckworth, Foster, Lipinski, Schneider, and Casten pressed Willowbrook-based Sterigenics for answers regarding a CBS Chicago report where ex-employees of Sterigenics alleged rampant wrong-doing by facility supervisors, such as releasing EtO directly into the atmosphere without proper pollution control equipment, dumping ethylene glycol into drainage facilities, and manipulating warning alarms in the facility. Full text of the letter is available here and below: March 4, 2019 Dear Director Breysse: We write to request that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) conduct an updated site-specific Health Consultation for Willowbrook, Illinois using data available from federal, state, or local agencies, based on the most recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ethylene oxide (EtO) ambient air measurements from around the Sterigenics facility. In this effort, we request that ATSDR work in collaboration with the U.S. EPA to perform or continue the necessary air measurements and modeling required for a full cancer risk exposure assessment, to guide specific actions to mitigate exposures to this community, and to make this analysis a priority as soon as the necessary information becomes available. In August 2018, ATSDR released a Letter Health Consultation entitled “Evaluation of Potential Health Impacts from Ethylene Oxide Emissions,” which relied on U.S. EPA data collection and modeling around the Sterigenics facility in Willowbrook. Based on the concentrations of ambient EtO collected by the EPA from May 16 – 18, 2018, and the updated cancer risk value from the EPA’s Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) “Evaluation of the Inhalation Carcinogenicity of Ethylene Oxide” assessment in late 2016, ATSDR made several recommendations, including that: (1) Sterigenics take immediate action to reduce EtO, (2) U.S. EPA work with Sterigenics to initiate long-term air monitoring, and (3) the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) investigate whether elevated cancers exist in the areas surrounding Sterigenics. Since that 2018 report, Sterigenics has installed pollution control equipment to reconnect a back vent that was responsible for additional EtO released to the atmosphere. However, over the last few months, the U.S. EPA has taken new measurements which clearly indicate that Sterigenics has still been pumping elevated concentrations of EtO into the Willowbrook community following that change. The most recent data that U.S. EPA released from early January 2019—measurements collected after the back vent has been reconnected to pollution control equipment—include much higher concentrations than were found during May 2018. Given this concerning new data, we request that an updated site-specific Health Consultation for Sterigenics be prioritized and conducted by ATSDR as soon as possible. Conclusions and recommendations by ATSDR experts are critical components to addressing this public health threat in the Willowbrook community. Thank you for your attention to this serious matter. Sincerely,
03.01.2019	As seen on CBS Chicago “Amtrak's apology for the unacceptable problems they caused for Metra passengers yesterday is only a start. There are many questions Amtrak needs to answer and then fixes need to be made as soon as possible. I met with Amtrak’s CEO 3 weeks ago and talked about the need for a lot of work on rail, platform, and other infrastructure at Union Station. I have called CEO Anderson to my office for another meeting next week. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Rail, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, there is oversight that needs to be conducted regarding this incident and Metra service in general. Questions need to be asked, answers need to be found, and solutions implemented.”
02.27.2019	Today I supported commonsense, bipartisan legislation to require all gun sellers – including private vendors, online sellers, and sellers at gun shows – to conduct background checks on potential buyers. One way we can prevent the devastating consequences of gun violence in our society is requiring background checks to prevent those with criminal records, domestic violence restraining orders, and mental health issues from obtaining guns. #HR8 does not unreasonably burden those who are lawful gun purchasers. This legislation will help to prevent guns from getting in the hands of those who are a threat to themselves and others and will better protect society.
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, a bipartisan group of Members of Congress, led by Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) and Rep. Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ), introduced a resolution to claw back power from the Executive Branch. By amending the National Emergencies Act, Congress will have to approve any new emergency declaration within 60 days – similar to the War Powers Act. The resolution aims to end the practice of governing by national emergency. Original Co-Sponsors include: Rep. Salud Carbajal Rep. John Curtis Rep. Debbie Dingell Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick Rep. Vincente Gonzalez Rep. Josh Gottheimer Rep. Josh Harder Rep. Will Hurd Rep. Dan Lipinski Rep. Elaine Luria Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Rep. Alex Mooney Rep. Stephanie Murphy Rep. Tom O’Halleran Rep. Bill Posey Rep. Tom Reed Rep. Kurt Schrader Rep. Abigail Spanberger Rep. Tom Suozzi Rep. Fred Upton “This resolution is not a rebuke of President Trump’s national emergency declaration – the drugs, violence and human trafficking speak for themselves in regards to the true crisis we are facing. This resolution speaks to the politicization of Congress and its failure to lead. Instead of proactively solving problems Congress has delegated our precious power away,” said Congressman Tom Reed (NY-23). “We must take this power back. Otherwise over time, Congress will be seen as an advisory body instead of the co-equal branch of government the country needs.” "National emergencies are no way to govern, regardless of party. The Constitution is clear about our authority and responsibilities. By amending the National Emergencies Act, this bipartisan legislation will help Congress wrest back control and prevent further abuse of executive authority,” said Congressman Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5). “The founding fathers designed Congress to be a co-equal branch with the Executive, and this resolution would begin to bring more responsibility back to the Congress, as the Constitution intended,” Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) said. “Under this resolution, Presidents would not be able to simply declare national emergencies without the concurrence of the Congress – no matter their political party and no matter the issue.” “When any President declares a national emergency, Congress - the people’s elected representatives - should have the final say on why and how it’s used. We cannot allow this type of Presidential power to go unchecked. I am proud to join this bipartisan effort to bring the balance of power closer to the will of the people and to protect the checks and balances our Founders intended,” said Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL-07). “This is about Congress, as a coequal branch of government, reasserting its Constitutional powers,” said Congressman Will Hurd (TX-23). “There’s no question we have a problem at our border that has existed over multiple presidential administrations, which is why I have supported over $220 billion for homeland security, including technology, manpower and barriers throughout my time in Congress and authored the only bipartisan border security and immigration solution.” Congressman Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) said. “Our democracy is built on the principle that each branch of government must act as a check on the others to prevent the abuse of power. No president, regardless of party, should have the power to defy our duly elected legislature or our federal courts. This bipartisan legislation strengthens Congress’ ability to hold the Executive Branch accountable and prevent overreach, and I am proud to join my colleagues to introduce it today.” “Legislating must remain in the Legislative Branch. Presidents should not be allowed to use a national emergency declaration as a justification to push through priorities that Congress has not funded,” Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01) said. “This bill will ensure the proper checks and balances are in place and reclaim Congress’s Constitutional authority.” “No President has the power to ignore our Constitution and rule of law,” said Congressman Salud Carbajal (CA-24). “That's why I joined the Problem Solvers to pass this resolution preventing current and future fake national emergencies.” “This legislation represents an important step to rein in the excessively broad authority that has been delegated to the executive branch and will prevent future circumstances in which legislative leaders rely on the President’s executive authority to let them off the hook for failing to do their jobs,” Congressman John Curtis (UT-03) said. “Reasserting our proper role under Article 1 as intended by the Constitution should be a bipartisan priority that all of my colleagues can support.” “Our government was set up to give power to the American people by giving power to Congress,” said Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03). “But Congress has allowed presidents to seize more and more power; declarations of “national emergencies” are one example of this. We need this legislation to give power back to the people by giving power back to Congress.” “For too long, Congress has ceded its Constitutional duties to the executive branch. In order for us to protect the voice of ‘We, the People,’ we must restore that authority to the branch that is closest and most accountable to the people -- the legislative branch,” Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) said. “This legislation is not about any specific national emergency declaration but instead will make changes to the National Emergencies Act of 1976 to ensure Congress has a more central role in the national emergency declaration process as a whole. By leading on this legislation, we can begin to restore the rightful role of Congress in this process.” Congressman Kurt Schrader (OR-05) said,“The President’s job is to execute the will of Congress, not the other way around. Abusing executive orders or declaring national emergencies, and delegating the necessary funding for them, all fall under Congress’s purview. For too long, Presidents of both parties have usurped Congress’s express constitutional authority to make the law of the land and appropriate taxpayer dollars as your Representatives.” “It is critical that Congress reassert its vested powers, established by Article I of the U.S. Constitution,” Congressman Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) said. “Congress must uphold its duty to check the power of the Executive and provide oversight when a sitting President attempts to circumvent the power of the purse via a national emergency declaration. As a proud member of the Problem Solvers Caucus, I stand by Congressmen Gottheimer and Reed in this effort to safeguard Constitutional Congressional authority.” “Congress is a coequal branch of government. It has the authority to stop presidential overreach,”Congresswoman Elaine Luria (VA-02) said. “I’m proud to support bipartisan legislation that reinforces our system of checks and balances.” “Preserving the fundamental principle of constitutional separation of powers is not a partisan issue, it’s a congressional duty. The administration’s emergency declaration was a drastic overstep of Executive authority, and Congress must affirm its constitutional role as the appropriator of taxpayer dollars and a check and balance on presidential power. I’m proud to cosponsor this bipartisan bill, which would require congressional approval after an emergency is declared, without hampering the administration’s ability to react quickly to true emergencies. Having sworn and oath now multiple times to uphold and defend the Constitution, I’ll keep fighting to protect congressional authority from executive overreach, no matter who is in the White House, and to reaffirm the importance of responsible, balanced governance,”said Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger (VA-07). ###
02.26.2019	“Today I voted to terminate President Trump’s emergency declaration because it is a clear violation of the spending authority vested in Congress. Our framers designed our system of checks and balances specifically to prevent this type of overreach from the executive branch. No president should be able to declare a national emergency in an attempt to circumvent Congressional authority. That is a violation of the legislative process codified in the U.S. Constitution.”
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the bipartisan Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2019 to provide additional training for innovators to learn how to turn their research into new products and businesses. The job-creating legislation, sponsored by Representatives Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Daniel Webster (R-FL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Frank Lucas (R-OK), and Anthony Gonzalez (R-OH), enables broader participation in the successful National Science Foundation Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program. “I’m pleased my colleagues and I were able to get this important bill through the House with bipartisan support,” said Lipinski. “Increasing the accessibility of I-Corps is something I’ve long supported because it allows us to ensure the money we invest in research and development will spur job growth and boost our return on investment. This bill has been endorsed by a wide range of technology, venture capital, and academic stakeholders, and we’re optimistic it will become law.” I-Corps connects scientists and engineers with the technological, entrepreneurial, and business communities necessary to move discoveries from the laboratory to the market. The most successful federal program of its kind, since 2012 I-Corps has trained over 1,300 teams, led to the formation of 644 startup companies, and resulted in over $300 million in follow-on funding raised. “This bill expands the time-tested I-Corps program to help scientists, engineers and others that develop innovative products be more successful in getting those products to the market,” said Webster. “The new course will focus on the essential skills of starting a successful and scalable business. We know small-businesses are the backbone of our economy and our chief job creators. With the assistance of this course, the next creative mind is better equipped to open that next small business and achieve success.” The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2019 expands the eligible pool of applicants for the I-Corps program, allowing the participation of aspiring entrepreneurs who have already demonstrated their merit by being awarded Small Business Innovation Research or Small Business Technology Transfer grants from a federal agency. “I am so pleased to see this important legislation pass the House,” said Johnson, chairwoman of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “Finding ways to maximize the benefits of federally funded research is critical to U.S. competitiveness in the global market. Unfortunately, too many innovative ideas do not make it to the commercialization phase. This bill will help increase those odds. I thank Mr. Lipinski for his leadership on this bipartisan legislation and look forward to working with him to see it through to the President’s desk.” “I-Corps gives researchers the tools they need to take their discoveries from the lab and turn them into valuable commercial products and businesses,” said Lucas, ranking member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. “At Oklahoma State University we’ve seen I-Corps’ success first hand, where it is a critical component of a support system for business startups. This bill expanding the I-Corps program fosters small business growth in innovative technologies and I look forward to moving it forward.” The bill also authorizes a “Phase II” I-Corps program that would provide additional hands-on, immersive learning classes for participants who have already gone through the current I-Corps training. This “Phase II” course would help entrepreneurs develop business plans to the point where they are ready to attract venture capital funding. “Since the NSF I-corps Program was created in 2011, more than 600 startups have been formed through the various I-corps sites including in my home state of Ohio at The University of Akron, University of Toledo, and my alma mater The Ohio State University, said Rep. Gonzalez. ‘As we confront the economic challenges of the 21st century — it will be our innovators and entrepreneurs who will create solutions to these seemingly intractable problems by channeling the entrepreneurial spirit and force of will that has driven our country to its greatest economic heights. The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act safeguards our economy by empowering future generations of entrepreneurs in all corners of our country to turn their wildest dreams into our collective achievements.” The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act has been endorsed by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, I-Corps Curriculum Developer and Stanford University Professor Steve Blank, I-Corps founding program officer and M34 Capital CEO Dr. Errol Arkilic, the National Venture Capital Association, the Council on Government Relations, and the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities. Companion legislation, S.118, has been introduced in the Senate by Sens. Chris Coons (D-DE) and Todd Young (R-IN). # # #
02.18.2019	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on the IL EPA seal order to prevent any new sterilization cycles at Sterigenics using EtO: “After Friday’s IL EPA order to shut down EtO sterilization at Sterigenics, I wish I could say our work is done, but we know that’s not the case. Sterigenics’ attorneys have already indicated they will fight the IL EPA’s Seal Order in court. As Sterigenics fights their battle in the courts, I will continue to fight to get the US EPA to act. Under the Clean Air Act, the US EPA Administrator has the ability to temporarily shut down any facility for 60 days if there is evidence that it presents a substantial threat to public health or the environment. The evidence already collected indicating high levels of EtO in the air in Willowbrook seems to clearly demonstrate a public health threat. The US EPA needs to act immediately. I applaud the IL EPA’s actions on Sterigenics, now it’s time for the US EPA to follow suit.”
02.15.2019	As seen on CBS Chicago Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on the IL EPA seal order to prevent any new sterilization cycles at Sterigenics using EtO: "After months of hard work calling on US and Illinois EPA to hold Sterigenics accountable and protect public health in the surrounding communities, the Illinois EPA has stepped in to stop the use of Ethylene Oxide at Sterigenics, effectively shutting it down. Five months ago I called on the EPA to shut Sterigenics down unless it could show it was not a public health threat. US EPA finally began conducting air tests in Willowbrook in November and the results have shown dangerously high levels of EtO, especially next to Sterigenics’ facilities. Based on these clear results, last week I led a bipartisan group of state and local officials, along with local residents, to the US EPA Region 5 headquarters to once again call for Stergenics to be shut down. I thank the Chicago Tribune for shining light on this issue including its editorial today calling on the EPA to heed my call to act. While the US EPA has continued to fail to act, I thank the Illinois EPA, Attorney General Raoul, and Governor Pritzker for acting today to protect the public. There is still work to be done to figure out long-term solutions, but Sterigenics needed to be shut down. The health, safety, and overall quality of life of the large population of people that live, work, and go to school near Sterigenics must always come first."
02.14.2019	“Today marks the one-year anniversary of the horrific shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. I have been moved by the actions of the Stoneman Douglas survivors and others across the county who are banding together to work on ending senseless gun violence. Their persistence is paying off as last night the House Judiciary Committee passed #HR8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. This is the first major gun violence prevention legislation to pass the Committee in several decades. It is long overdue but gives me hope for the future. #EndGunViolence”
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL), along with U.S. Representatives Bill Foster (D-IL-11), Dan Lipinski (D-IL-03), Brad Schneider (D-IL-10) and Sean Casten (D-IL-06), asked the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take immediate steps to protect the community surrounding Sterigenics in Willowbrook, Illinois from the public health threat posed by its cancer-causing ethylene oxide (EtO) emissions. In a letter to Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler, the members detailed a number of specific steps the EPA could take immediately, including updating its safety standards for EtO emissions, investigating whether Sterigenics has violated its chemical licensing requirements – which could result in both civil and criminal penalties – as well as opening a criminal investigation into allegations of misconduct against Sterigenics officials. “Alarming data published last week by EPA indicates that despite installing pollution control equipment, high levels of EtO were measured, threatening the health of Willowbrook residents. In one instance, the EtO detected was 350 times more than the level deemed safe by EPA,”the Members of Congress wrote. “It is time for EPA to move from fact-finding to acting on this public health threat in Willowbrook.” In their letter, the members asked the EPA to: Open a criminal investigation into allegations of misconduct raised by former employees against senior management at Sterigenics; Update safety standards regulating EtO emissions. The EPA has been ordered by a court to do this by 2020 but has the authority to act now; Investigate whether Sterigenics’ use, storage and disposal of EtO violated its registration under Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), which can result in civil and criminal fines; Audit Sterigenics’ EtO emissions using a third-party firm to ensure the company is not releasing more EtO emissions than is publicly known; Continue ambient air monitoring around Sterigenics beyond the current 3-month plan and release the results publicly; Commission a study on the background levels of EtO across the nation; Abandon its efforts to undermine EPA’s EtO risk assessment. The Illinois Senators and Members of Congress have been strong advocates for residents in Illinois communities with EtO-emitting facilities like Sterigenics and Medline and they have repeatedly called for the EPA to update its safety standards that regulate emissions of the carcinogen. They have had multiple meetings with top EPA officials over this public health crisis and EPA has held community meetings and begun monitoring air quality near Sterigenics at Duckworth and Durbin’s request. The Illinois Members of Congress also pressed Sterigenics for answers last week following a CBS Chicago report where ex-employees of Sterigenics alleged rampant wrong-doing by facility supervisors. Additonally, Duckworth and Durbin have requested the EPA Inspector General launch an independent investigation into whether the Trump EPA is failing to protect the American public from cancer-causing Ethylene Oxide (EtO) emissions after receiving information alleging that EPA senior political appointees instructed career civil servants to avoid conducting inspections of facilities that emit EtO in Region 5. Full text of the letter is available here.
02.13.2019	Today, U.S. Representatives Brad Schneider (D-IL-10) and Dan Lipinski (D-IL-03) and U.S. Senators. Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) led a letter urging the Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry (ATSDR) to conduct a nationwide exposure assessment on ethylene oxide (EtO) emissions. When complete, the requested study would provide the public with valuable information about their community’s level of exposure to EtO and would advance our understanding how widespread a public health issue EtO emissions are. “We know from the National Air Toxics Assessment that there are multiple areas around the country with unacceptably high predicted cancer risk due to EtO emissions. We therefore ask that ATSDR work in a transparent and publicly accountable manner with EPA to immediately conduct a nationwide study of EtO exposure in communities with elevated levels of EtO emissions, as well as communities known to have been exposed to high levels of EtO emissions in the past,” write the letter signers. The letter specifically requests that the national assessment include affected communities in Lake County, Illinois. We know from the National Air Toxics Assessment that facilities in these communities emit EtO, and the public deserves to know more about emissions in their backyard. The Members of Congress also praised the work of local and state agencies to conduct cancer incidence studies around EtO-emitting facilities, such as work by the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) in Willowbrook, and request that “ATSDR serve as a resource for IDPH and any other state or local agencies nationwide that opt to conduct such a study relating to EtO.” The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) is a federal public health agency within Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The letter was also signed by Reps. Bill Foster (D-IL-11), Sean Casten (D-IL-06), Lauren Underwood (D-IL-14), Mike Quigley (D-IL-05), Susan Wild (D-PA-07), Frederica Wilson (D-FL-24), and Matt Cartwright (D-PA-08). A signed copy of the letter is available online.
02.05.2019	As seen on CBS Chicago Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released new data on ethylene oxide levels in the air around the Sterigenics facility in Willowbrook. Almost all of the measurements, taken in late November and early December, are over the EPA action threshold for cancer risk, and the highest number is 350 times the limit. The more data we see from Willowbrook, the worse the situation looks. We have enough evidence now to say that Sterigenics is not protecting the public, even after it upgraded its pollution control equipment this past summer. It is time for the EPA to immediately shut the facility down until they come up with a plan that will actually protect the public from excessive emissions and cancer risk, if that is possible.” More information on the latest EPA air quality monitoring results in Willowbrook can be found at this link: https://www.epa.gov/il/sterigenics-willowbrook-facility-latest-update#Feb%205
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL-22), Congressman Francis Rooney (R-FL-19), Congressman Charlie Crist (D-FL-13), Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA-18), Congressman Scott Peters (D-CA-52), Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA-27), and Congressman Daniel Lipinski (D-IL-03) introduced bipartisan legislation to price carbon and return 100% of the net revenue as a rebate to American families. The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act (EICDA) will help reduce U.S. carbon pollution by up to 45% by 2030, with over 90% reduction target by 2050 (vs. 2016 levels). This would be achieved by pricing carbon at $15 per metric ton of CO2e and increasing the price by $10 every year. The Treasury Department would return 100% of the net revenue back to the American people, a policy highlighted by a Treasury Department report as helping lower- and middle-income families. Text of the legislation can be found here. "Climate change is an urgent threat that demands urgent bipartisan action. With this legislation, we are making clear to our colleagues that bipartisanship is possible – even necessary – to address climate change in this Congress," said Congressman Deutch. "Our plan, to put a price on carbon and return the net revenue back to the American people, offers our Democratic and Republican colleagues an effective approach to significantly reduce carbon emissions without shifting the burden to the American people." “I am supportive of a carbon fee as a non-regulatory, revenue-neutral and market-driven incentive to move toward natural gas and away from coal, and to support emerging alternate sources of energy," said Congressman Rooney. "There are many proposals being suggested as to utilizing monies a carbon tax might generate, each with its own strengths and weaknesses – there are several favorable options, and this bill provides a method of ensuring that any fees are rebated back to the public.” “Congress must act with the urgency the climate crisis demands. Nowhere is this more clear than in Florida where rising sea levels are impacting our communities,” said Congressman Crist. “Our bipartisan bill takes historic steps toward reducing carbon dependency – key to addressing the climate crisis – while using the revenue generated to cut a monthly check to every American. A win-win solution!” “I’m proud to be a cosponsor of the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act which establishes a steadily increasing carbon fee to cut carbon emissions and return the revenue to the American people,” said Congresswoman Eshoo. “This important and practical bipartisan legislation will grow our economy and address climate change. The scientific evidence continues to show that this is one of the most important issues facing our nation and our planet. The science is clear. If we don’t take action now, future generations will inherit a planet greatly diminished by sea-level rise, more extreme weather, habitat change and extinctions, and other irrevocable damage.” “To save the planet we need to give Americans a significant monetary incentive to reduce their carbon emissions," Congressman Peters said. "This proposal is an ambitious plan, supported by both Republicans and Democrats, that addresses one of the primary causes of climate change while also igniting economic growth and innovation. It also reestablishes the United States as leader in the fight to curb climate change by also motivating other countries to adopt carbon pricing.” “The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is a necessary and urgent step in setting our country on the path toward a carbon-free economy," Congresswoman Chu said. "U.S. emissions rose by an estimated 3.4% in 2018, which is why we cannot afford to wait any longer to take action. This bipartisan proposal would aggressively reduce carbon emissions and play an essential part in our country’s urgent fight against climate change.” “Climate change is having significant negative effects on our economy and on peoples' health and daily lives, and we've known for a long time that we need to take serious action," said Congressman Lipinski. "This bill does that in a way that will also create jobs and boost the economy. Similar to the bipartisan carbon fee bill I introduced in 2009, this legislation will refund 100 percent of the revenues collected to the American people. The EICDA will put policies in place to drastically reduce our carbon emissions, and will also create incentives for US businesses to develop the clean technology of the future. I thank Congressman Deutch and the other co-sponsors for the action they’ve taken and for joining me as leaders in the fight against climate change.” “We think there are two major requirements for any climate solution: It has to be effective in bringing down carbon pollution, and it has to be good for people," said Mark Reynolds, executive director of Citizens’ Climate Lobby. “The Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act is strong on both counts. It sets a price high enough to drive significant emissions reductions, and by giving the revenue to households, it helps people financially as America transitions to a clean energy economy." “This ambitious, bipartisan proposal underscores the growing momentum in Washington for climate solutions,” said C2ES President Bob Perciasepe. “The recent National Climate Assessment and IPCC Special Report make clearer than ever that we need action now. This kind of comprehensive market-based approach is key to decarbonizing the U.S. economy. It can protect our communities and infrastructure from growing climate risks while contributing to strong, sustainable economic growth.” “Carbon dividends is the free-market solution that would reduce emissions while growing our economy and driving innovation," said Greg Bertelsen, Senior Vice President, Climate Leadership Council. "It is a framework that has already garnered support from leading environmentalists, businesses and thought leaders and would ensure that American households come out ahead. The introduction of this legislation reiterates that a carbon dividends policy can attract backing from lawmakers on both sides.”
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today announced that Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will serve as chairman of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials. Lipinski’s subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes all federal laws and programs regulating railroad transportation, including railroad safety, rail infrastructure programs, economic regulation, and railroad labor laws, as well as all federal laws and programs regulating the safety of gas and liquid pipelines and the safety of transporting material and hazardous freight. Lipinski was chosen to lead the subcommittee in the 116th Congress based on his experience and expertise in rail, pipeline, and hazmat safety; freight, commuter (Metra), and passenger (Amtrak) rail issues, performance, and regulation; the fair treatment of labor; and the impact rails and pipelines have on local communities. “I grew up 100 yards from the railroad tracks, so I learned first-hand early in life about the issues we all face living with so many rail lines running through our neighborhoods, including blocked crossings, noise, and pollution. I also understand the benefits railroads bring such as good jobs and more environmentally friendly movement of freight,” Lipinski said. “Although we don’t see the pipelines, the Third District has a huge number of them running underground and I’ve worked hard over the past 12 years on this subcommittee to learn all the issues involved with rail, pipelines, and hazardous material. As chair, I will continue the work I have done to advance policies that prioritize rail and pipeline safety, a better environment, more jobs, and better public transit. “I especially look forward to conducting oversight on matters my constituents and others are concerned about, including commuter rail on-time performance, noise pollution, railroad property upkeep in our communities, and reducing blocked crossings, among other issues.” Rep. Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and his Third Congressional District is at the center of the nation’s rail network. Six of the seven Class I railroads operate over the nearly 4,000 miles of rail track in Chicago and more than a quarter of freight rail traffic and nearly half of intermodal traffic begins at, ends at, or transits in northeastern Illinois. In addition, many of the nation’s major pipelines carrying petroleum products and natural gas converge in Chicago and down through southwest suburban Cook and Will counties. As subcommittee chairman, Lipinski said he will continue to seek transportation funding opportunities that benefit the public like the initial $100 million in federal seed funding and subsequent hundreds of millions he secured to initiate the CREATE rail modernization program, a public-private partnership that is easing congestion on the road and rails in northeastern Illinois. “With my leadership and experience in rail and pipeline matters, I am ready to get to work as chairman,” Lipinski said. “I grateful for the opportunity and look forward to getting started on the work we have ahead of us.”
01.22.2019	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today announced that the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is launching a new, $15 million Lithium Battery Recycling Research and Development Center at Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont. The DOE will also launch a lithium-ion battery recycling prize, which will offer $5.5 million in cash prizes for technologies that can profitably recover lithium from 90% of the lithium battery types on the market. Lithium batteries are lightweight and high-power, making them the choice for most consumer and mobile technologies on the market, including electric vehicles. Their popularity has sent global demand for lithium and cobalt, another metal used in batteries, skyrocketing. Both metals are in limited supply and mined in politically unstable areas, yet the global recycling rate for lithium-ion batteries is below 5 percent. A cost-effective solution to collect these batteries and recover their valuable metals could lower the cost of electric vehicles and consumer electronics, and would keep these materials out of landfills. “Argonne has a long history of developing new clean energy technologies and bringing them to market,” said Congressman Lipinski. “Today’s announcement demonstrates one more way they are investing federal research dollars to remove barriers to a renewable energy future. Their focus on cost-effective, market-ready solutions will help ensure that the energy technology of tomorrow is made in the USA.” An outspoken advocate for aggressive action to combat climate change, Congressman Lipinski has been a strong supporter of clean energy research at Argonne throughout his time in Congress. In 2007, he wrote legislation that launched a prize competition for hydrogen refueling technology, complementing Argonne’s fuel cell work. In 2012, he supported the creation of the Joint Center for Energy Storage Research at Argonne and in 2018, he successfully fought to renew its funding. “This is an exciting time as applications for energy storage continue to expand,” said Argonne Director Paul Kearns. “Together, the DOE and Argonne have made pivotal discoveries in advanced materials, chemistry and engineering that have made batteries safer and longer-lasting. We are proud to pioneer the first scale-up and pilot test facilities to enable cost-efficient battery recycling, helping to drive U.S. prosperity and security.” In addition to the battery recycling center at Argonne, DOE also launched the Lithium-Ion Battery Recycling Prize to encourage American entrepreneurs to find innovative solutions to collecting, storing, and transporting discarded lithium-ion batteries for eventual recycling. It will award cash prizes totaling $5.5 million to contestants in three progressive phases designed to accelerate the development of solutions from concept to prototype to demonstration. # # #
01.22.2019	For the 13th consecutive year, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has introduced a resolution celebrating Catholic Schools Week and honoring the outstanding work of Catholic schools in the Chicago area and across the nation. Catholic Schools Week, which begins this year on January 27, has been an annual event since 1974. This year’s theme is “Catholic Schools: Learn. Serve. Lead. Succeed.” Lipinski’s resolution praises “the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States” and “the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the nation.” It recognizes that Catholic schools create “an intellectually stimulating environment rich in spiritual, character, and moral development” which produces academically successful students, foster a commitment to service, family, and community, and accept students from all faiths and socioeconomic backgrounds. “I am forever grateful for the values I was taught in Catholic schools emphasizing critical thinking, faith, and service to others,” said Rep. Lipinski. “My education at St. Symphorosa Grammar and St. Ignatius College Prep left lasting impressions that made me the man I am today. I take great pride in honoring the teachers, staff, administrators, and countless volunteers who work so hard with little fanfare to shape the future male and female leaders of tomorrow. The halls of Congress are replete with alumni of Catholic schools.” Schools typically celebrate the week with Masses, open houses, and other activities for students, families, parishioners, and community members. During the week, Congressman Lipinski will visit several schools in the district. # # #
01.15.2019	Today, the bipartisan and bicameral Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2019 was introduced by Representatives Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Daniel Webster (R-FL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), and Frank Lucas (R-OK), and Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Todd Young (R-IN). This bill enables broader participation in the successful National Science Foundation Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program and provides additional training for innovators to learn how to turn their research into new products and businesses. I-Corps connects scientists and engineers with the technological, entrepreneurial, and business communities necessary to move discoveries from the laboratory to the market. The most successful federal program of its kind, since 2012 I-Corps has trained over 1,300 teams, led to the formation of 644 startup companies, and resulted in over $300 million in follow-on funding raised. The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2019 expands the eligible pool of applicants for the I-Corps program, allowing the participation of aspiring entrepreneurs who have already demonstrated their merit by being awarded Small Business Innovation Research or Small Business Technology Transfer grants from a federal agency. The bill also authorizes a “Phase II” I-Corps program that would provide additional hands-on, immersive learning classes for participants who have already gone through the current I-Corps training. This “Phase II” course would help entrepreneurs develop business plans to the point where they are ready to attract venture capital funding. “I’m so pleased to be joined by a bipartisan group of colleagues in the House and Senate to introduce this bill expanding the highly effective I-Corps program, something I have championed since its inception. Increasing the accessibility of I-Corps allows us to ensure the money we invest in research and development will spur job growth and boost our return on investment. This bill has been endorsed by a wide range of technology, venture capital, and academic stakeholders, and we’re optimistic it will become law with overwhelming bipartisan support,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This bill expands upon the time-tested I-Corps program through adding a course for commercialization-ready participants. This course will focus on the essential skills of starting a successful and scalable business,” said Rep. Webster. “A special thank you to Senators Coons and Young for leading the charge in the Senate and making this a bicameral effort.” “The I-Corps program developed at the National Science Foundation is a superb example of a federal program that leverages a very small investment in the ingenuity of our nation’s STEM researchers to spur innovation and generate economic growth,” said Rep. Johnson, Chairwoman of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. “I am happy to join my colleagues in supporting this bill that continues to build on an already strong program.” “I-Corps moves American research and innovation from the lab to the market where new technology can benefit consumers and businesses” said Rep. Lucas, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. “Expanding this program boosts American competitiveness in critical fields and promotes job growth. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and this bill gives innovators the tools needed to become entrepreneurs.” “Training our most promising entrepreneurs to navigate the transition from the laboratory to the marketplace supports U.S.-grown startups and small businesses and increases our competitiveness on the global stage,” said Senator Coons. “We wisely invest billions of taxpayer dollars every year into scientific research and development, and this legislation builds a bridge for our best research to directly benefit society.” “Entrepreneurs fuel Indiana’s small business community and have the power to transform our lives,” said Senator Young. “This legislation will support Hoosier entrepreneurs by investing in research and innovation, and empowering individuals to turn their ideas into products and businesses.” The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act has been endorsed by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, I-Corps Curriculum Developer and Stanford University Professor Steve Blank, I-Corps founding program officer and M34 Capital CEO Dr. Errol Arkilic, the National Venture Capital Association, the Council on Government Relations, the Association of American Universities, and the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities.
01.09.2019	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is inviting residents of the Third Congressional District to a Town Hall Meeting to answer questions and talk about his priorities in the 116th Congress. At the Town Hall Meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions about federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s offices will be available beginning 8:00 a.m. until the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. "I encourage those who can attend to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting," Rep. Lipinski said. "There’s been a power shift in Washington and I want to answer your questions about how it will impact residents of the Third District. It is my absolute privilege to serve as your representative and be a conduit for your concerns. I value all the feedback I receive during town halls and use it to help inform my decision-making. In addition, this event will be a great opportunity for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my office provides." The date, time, and location for the upcoming event is: Saturday, January 12, 2019 8:30 a.m. Performing Arts Center – Oak Lawn Community High School 9400 Southwest Highway, Oak Lawn Congressional staff will be available starting at 8:00 a.m. for assistance with federal agencies. ###
01.04.2019	Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Congressman Darin LaHood (R-IL) today voted in favor of Title II of the 116th Congress Rules Package, which includes pieces of legislation they previously sponsored to create a committee charged with investigating ways to reform Congress so it works more efficiently and effectively. The House approved creating the Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress on a vote of 418-12. Rep. Lipinski, a former American Government professor, said the way Congress operates today is nowhere near what our framers envisioned. “When I taught American Government I was always pointing out that the Constitution established Congress in Article I, before the executive and judicial branches, because the drafters understood the critical importance of Congress leading in our representative democracy,” said Lipinski. “Congressional dysfunction increasingly turns more power over to the president and to the courts, which takes power away from the people. Congress needs reform so it can function as it was intended. I thank my friend and colleague Rep. LaHood for leading this charge with me to return power to the American people and look forward to helping the committee meet its goals.” The legislation approved Friday will create a Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, which will be comprised of twelve members, six Democrats and six Republicans. The Committee will be charged with investigating and a studying options for modernizing the legislative process and is required to file a final report at the end of the first session of the 116th Congress. In both the 114th and 115th Congress, Reps. Lipinski and LaHood introduced legislation to establish a Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress.
12.28.2018	WASHINGTON--Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is leading a bipartisan group of lawmakers who are requesting the Department of Defense to include funding for the Hacking for Defense (H4D) program in its FY 2020 budget request. H4D combines the problem-solving techniques learned by members of the military in the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan with Silicon Valley lean business startup methods to teach students how to solve national security challenges. Earlier this month, Lipinski wrote a letter to Michael Griffin, undersecretary of defense for research and engineering, requesting that he support the MD5 National Security Technology Accelerator, which through its university partnerships and collaboration with the H4D program, has helped create a pipeline of new technology and engineering talent focused on national security issues. Fifteen senators and representatives joined Lipinski in requesting funding for the program, which has created more than 900 new applications, concepts, or solutions provided to end-users throughout DOD. “H4D delivers solutions directly to the warfighter, supports the rebuilding of U.S. military readiness, and advances the mission of innovation in national security,” Lipinski said. “We’re requesting that the DOD make MD5 a program of record and include funding for it in order to increase innovation in the department’s acquisition process and improve U.S. military readiness.” H4D is modeled after the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program, which has been teaching scientists and engineers the skills they need to turn their discoveries into commercial products since 2011. As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Lipinski was an early supporter of the I-Corps program and was responsible for helping it proliferate through the federal government. It has changed how federally funded research is commercialized. Congress has recognized the importance of MD5 by adding more than $50 million for the program since its inception, including $15 million in the FY2019 defense appropriations bill.
12.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is asking veterans in the Third District to share their stories so they can be preserved in the Library of Congress’ Veterans History Project (VHP). For any veteran that is interested, the Congressman’s office will set up a recorded interview at their home or at a local site. The VHP collects, preserves, and makes accessible the personal accounts of veterans so that current and future generations can better understand the contributions and sacrifices they made. All veterans are invited to call Lipinski’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223 for more information or to schedule an interview. At the conclusion of the recorded interview, participants will receive a copy and one will be sent to the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. “I encourage all veterans who are able to take advantage of this unique opportunity to share their stories,” Rep. Lipinski said. “These interviews will be recorded for posterity. Our heroes are not just those we read about in the history books, but every man and woman who has served our nation in uniform.” All recorded interviews will be housed in the permanent collections of the Library of Congress. They will be available to researchers, scholars, students, authors, filmmakers, and anyone else visiting the library. For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov.
12.22.2018	WASHINGTON--Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today announced that Metra will receive more $2 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation for implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC) safety technology. PTC is a federally mandated computerized system that prevents certain types of train-to-train collisions, helps avoid derailments and other accidents caused by excessive speed, and increases safety for rail workers. “This funding is good news for Metra users and every commuter in the Chicago area,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Representing a district with a large number of rail lines, I have always made safety a top priority on the Railroad Subcommittee. In 2008, I included language in a bill to create the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to help railroads install life-saving PTC more quickly. Last Congress, I joined with Rep. Quigley on a bill to reauthorize the grant program so that Metra could get federal help to install this critical technology.” The grant will support Metra’s purchase of onboard PTC equipment for recently purchased locomotives. At Congressman Lipinski’s meeting with Metra and BNSF earlier this month, Metra CEO Jim Derwinski said some of the delays on the BNSF and other lines could be attributed to the need to update PTC equipment. “I’m hopeful this grant money will help alleviate some of the delays and other problems with Metra trains,” Lipinski said. “I will continue to push my colleagues in Congress to consider a comprehensive infrastructure bill before the end of the year that includes additional dollars to help expedite the implementation of PTC both in the region and across the country.”
12.18.2018	In light of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's recent testing showing significantly high levels of cancer-causing ethylene oxide (EtO) in the air in Willowbrook, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is calling on Sterigenics to implement a new testing method to measure EtO coming from its facilities in the village. Lipinski wants Sterigenics to work with the U.S. and Illinois EPA to conduct fenceline air quality monitoring to get a clearer picture of the pollution levels crossing their property boundary. Recent EPA-supervised stack testing showed how much EtO is emitted from Sterigenics’ scrubber, but not how much potentially leaks out through windows, doors, its heating and air conditioning system, and other sources. “Yesterday, I visited Sterigenics’ main Willowbrook facility to see for myself the building and how the plant operates, as well as where the EPA has conducted ambient air testing,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Following up on this visit and in consultation with outside scientists, today I am calling on Sterigenics to begin – as soon as possible – testing for EtO around the perimeter of its two buildings in Willowbrook. This testing should be done in conjunction with the EPA and in a transparent manner that can be scientifically verified by an independent third party. I continue to stand by my statement that Sterigenics should be shut down unless we can be assured that it is not a public health threat.” The EPA released another round of air sample results yesterday for EtO around the two Sterigenics facilities. The first set of results released on December 7th showed an extremely high concentration of EtO on November 19th at the two testing sites closest to the plant. The new results for testing conducted on November 23rd differ from the previous results, but only raise more questions and cannot be said to demonstrate that Sterigenics is not a public health threat. This past summer, the EPA reported disturbingly high cancer risk in communities across the country that are home to commercial sterilization facilities – including Sterigenics – that emit EtO, which is a gas used to sterilize medical equipment and produce other chemicals. The EPA’s estimate of EtO’s cancer risk had been recently updated after 30 years and the risk is now believed to be at least 30 times higher than previously thought. This means the excess cancer risk around Sterigenics is 300 cancer cases per million people, well above the level of 100 cases per million that the EPA uses as a threshold to take action. In September, Congressman Lipinski sent a letter to the EPA demanding that the Sterigenics plant in Willowbrook be shut down unless air testing can demonstrate that current emissions are not a health threat. He followed that up with legislation introduced last month directing the agency’s administrator to finally update its emissions regulations for EtO.
12.14.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (D-IL) Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2018, a job-creating bill boosting American innovation and aiding entrepreneurs, has been introduced in the Senate by a bipartisan pair of senators, Chris Coons (D-DE) and Todd Young (R-IN). The bipartisan bill, which Lipinski introduced in the House along with Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL), expands the highly successful National Science Foundation Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program that educates scientists and engineers about how to turn their laboratory research into new products and services. The bill was passed in the House earlier this year. “I want to thank Senators Coons and Young for their leadership in introducing this bill in the Senate,” said Lipinski. “Increasing the accessibility of I-Corps allows us to ensure the money we invest in research and development will spur job growth and boost our return on investment. This bill has been endorsed by a wide range of technology, venture capital, and academic stakeholders, and we’re optimistic it will become law with overwhelming bipartisan support.” The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2018 expands I-Corps to meet several pressing needs: it expands eligibility to those who are not grantees of the National Science Foundation (NSF) or other I-Corps agencies, it lets interested private citizens and companies apply to participate and cover their own costs, and it directs the NSF to establish a new course to teach scientist-entrepreneurs how to start and grow a company. Finally, the legislation requires a Government Accountability Office assessment of the I-Corps program – its first comprehensive, independent evaluation since it was created. Rep. Webster said the I-Corps program will bridge the divide between the academic world and commercialization sphere, playing a critical role in the efforts to increase innovation for all Americans. “I am pleased to see the Senate introduction of S. 9, the Innovation to Entrepreneurs Act,” said Webster. “This bill mirrors our bipartisan efforts in the House to expand upon the time-tested I-Corps program through adding a course for commercialization-ready participants. This course will focus on the essential skills of starting a successful and scalable business. A special thank you to Senators Coons and Young for leading the charge in the Senate and making this a bicameral effort.” Sens. Coons and Young said the bill will assist scientists-turned-entrepreneurs with skills like business development and company formation that are taught in business schools but not in Ph.D. programs. “Training our most promising entrepreneurs to navigate the transition from the laboratory to the marketplace supports U.S.-grown startups and small businesses and increases our competitiveness on the global stage,” said Coons. “We wisely invest billions of taxpayer dollars every year into scientific research and development, and this legislation builds a bridge for our best research to directly benefit society.” Added Young, “Entrepreneurs fuel Indiana’s small business community and have the power to transform our lives. This legislation will support Hoosier entrepreneurs by investing in research and innovation, and empowering individuals to turn their ideas into products and businesses.” The bill, S.9, awaits further action in the Senate.
12.10.2018	"Thank you for coming out. I want to start by wishing you Happy Holidays and Merry Christmas. I am hopeful 2019 will be a better year for everyone. "We’re here tonight because 2019 needs to be a better year for all Metra BNSF riders. "I don’t take Metra to work every day like many of you do, but I am an occasional rider and I have family members who rely on it every day. When it’s working well, it’s an incredibly fast and efficient way to get downtown, especially during rush hour. Last Tuesday, I arrived downtown in less than 30 minutes from Western Springs. "This is the type of service public transit riders deserve. "We all understand that problems can occur, but this year the Metra BNSF line has failed all too often. There have been repeated delays, cancellations, broken air conditioners, and other problems. "I’ve told Metra and BNSF that this is unacceptable and the problems must end. "I’ve called on the Surface Transportation Board, the federal railroad regulator, to increase its oversight. "And tonight we have the CEO of Metra and the VP of Passenger Operations for BNSF because I went to the top of both railroads and said that they must come out to hear from riders and to explain what they are doing to fix the problems. "The role that BNSF plays here may surprise you. They operate not only the freight trains on this line they own, but they also operate the Metra service. I will let these two men explain more of that. "As I said, I have asked the Surface Transportation Board to oversee the fixing of issues on this line. However, the power of this Board is limited. That is something I would like to change. "What I have been able to do on the House Transportation Committee is to help bring more federal funding to public transit. I’m co-chair of the Congressional Public Transit Caucus and a strong advocate for public transportation. I’m a frequent rider, especially in Washington. In the last Highway and Transit funding bill, I helped raise the funding for public transit by 20% between 2015 and 2020. The federal government provides over 85% of the capital funding for Metra which pays for locomotives, passenger cars, and some of the rail infrastructure. "Right now I am working on getting a new federal infrastructure bill passed in Congress early next year. I am helping the new governor’s transition team on transportation and I’m hopeful the state will also step up. "But tonight you have the opportunity to hear from Metra and BNSF, and you have the opportunity for these two railroads to hear from you. I want to thank CEO Derwinski and VP Mitchell for coming out here tonight. And they both know that I will continue to hold their feet to the fire until we get the service that we deserve."
12.06.2018	Public transit riders deserve reliable service, but this year the Metra BNSF line has often failed to deliver it. There have been repeated delays, cancellations, schedule changes, broken air conditioners, and other problems. Passengers deserve much better and Congressman Lipinski is working to get BNSF and Metra to fix the problems. In August, the Congressman brought Metra and BNSF together and put both on notice that they must fix the problems. The two railroads then developed a plan to address the issues. Despite some initial progress, train cancellations and delays have occurred yet again. As a result, Lipinski in October called on the Surface Transportation Board, the federal railroad regulator, to increase its oversight of the operations of Metra’s BNSF line. “As co-chair of the House Public Transit Caucus and a frequent transit rider, I fought for and was able to win a 10% increase in federal funding for public transit last Congress because more funding is needed to improve transit infrastructure including rail cars and locomotives,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But there are no good excuses for the poor service BNSF Metra passengers have been receiving. I’m going to continue to work to ensure that passengers get the service they deserve.” To give riders a chance to pose questions to Metra and BNSF and make sure their experiences with service problems are heard, the Congressman is bringing high-ranking representatives from both railroads to an open public meeting on December 10th at 7 p.m. at McClure Junior High in Western Springs.
12.04.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has been appointed co-chair of a gubernatorial transition committee created to advise incoming Governor-elect J.B. Pritzker and Lt. Governor-elect Juliana Stratton on state infrastructure issues. Congressman Lipinski is being joined by Congresswoman Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Congressman-elect Jesus “Chuy” Garcia, state Senator Martin Sandoval (D-Chicago), and state Rep. Jay Hoffman (D-Swansea) in leading the 45-member Restoring Illinois’ Infrastructure Committee. Lipinski – who is chairing the Transportation, Rail, Marine, Air, and Intermodal Infrastructure Subcommittee – helped lead the discussion this morning at the committee’s first meeting. “I’m honored to have been chosen by Gov.-elect Pritzker and Lt. Gov.-elect Stratton to co-chair this team of experts who will make sure that the new administration is able to hit the ground running on day one,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Illinois faces many challenges when it comes to infrastructure, and we will work together to find opportunities to make substantial progress. I believe Illinois can gain significantly from a new federal infrastructure bill that we are discussing in the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Combined with a state capital bill and the commitment of Gov.-elect Pritzker and Lt. Gov.-elect Stratton, we are taking steps toward impressive growth and expanded opportunty.” Congressman Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on three subcommittees: Aviation; Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and Highways and Transit. Over the past few years, he has authored important provisions in bills covering all aspects of transportation, including the long-term federal funding bill to fix roads and public transit, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, and the most recent Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. His position has enabled him to bring back hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funding to improve infrastructure in the state. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has been appointed co-chair of a gubernatorial transition committee created to advise incoming Governor-elect J.B. Pritzker and Lt. Governor-elect Juliana Stratton on state infrastructure issues. Congressman Lipinski is being joined by Congresswoman Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Congressman-elect Jesus “Chuy” Garcia, state Senator Martin Sandoval (D-Chicago), and state Rep. Jay Hoffman (DSwansea) in leading the 45-member Restoring Illinois’ Infrastructure Committee. Lipinski – who is chairing the Transportation, Rail, Marine, Air, and Intermodal Infrastructure Subcommittee – helped lead the discussion this morning at the committee’s first meeting. “I’m honored to have been chosen by Gov.-elect Pritzker and Lt. Gov.-elect Stratton to co-chair this team of experts who will make sure that the new administration is able to hit the ground running on day one,” said Lipinski. “Illinois faces many challenges when it comes to infrastructure, and we will work together to find opportunities to make substantial progress. I believe Illinois can gain significantly from a new federal infrastructure bill that we are discussing in the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Combined with a state capital bill and the commitment of Gov.-elect Pritzker and Lt. Gov.-elect Stratton, we are taking steps toward impressive growth and expanded opportunty.” Congressman Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on three subcommittees: Aviation; Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and Highways and Transit. Over the past few years, he has authored important provisions in bills covering all aspects of transportation, including the long-term federal funding bill to fix roads and public transit, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, and the most recent Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. His position has enabled him to bring back hundreds of millions of dollars in federal funding to improve infrastructure in the state. # #
12.03.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced the winners of the 2018 Senior Citizen of the Year Award during a special program today at Prime Time in Hickory Hills. The winners were chosen based on their contributions to their communities in the Third Congressional District. “These men and women dedicate countless hours to make their communities great places to live,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We owe them so much for their efforts and I’m proud to recognize them for the great work that they do.” The 2018 Senior Citizen of the Year Award winners are: Judy Bashor, Countryside; Genevieve Buol, Cicero; Elizabeth Chicola, Justice; Kazimierz Fryzowicz, Hickory Hills; Marilyn Koperniak, Chicago; Theodore Kramer, Hometown; Saranne Milano, Western Springs; Bill Molony, Lockport; Marie Murray, Tinley Park; Joseph Orozco, Chicago; Bernice Rimkus, Bridgeview; Ron Rimkus, Bridgeview; Dennis Shannon, Palos Hills; Robert Sprinkle, Willow Springs; Patricia Tichacek, Summit; Richard Wilus, Chicago; Jeanette Wood, Palos Park. To be eligible for this award, a senior must be nominated by the leader of an organization or an official from their community. Several hundred seniors have been nominated since the program’s inception.
11.29.2018	"Thank you for taking time out of your busy schedules during the holiday season to come to this meeting. I know that this is not how anyone wants to be spending their time. If we had our way, none of us would have to worry about what it means for our health and safety to be exposed to dangerous levels of ethylene oxide. I include my family in this. I live about two and half miles from Sterigenics to the northeast, the direction the exhaust generally goes. But, for many reasons, here we are. "It’s good that the EPA is holding this meeting, as I asked them to do a while ago, and I want to thank all of the state and local officials that worked diligently with the EPA to make the event happen. One thing that’s been sorely lacking since we all learned of the health threat emanating from the Sterigenics plant is clear public information, and I hope we’re going to get a lot more of that tonight. "I wanted to be at this meeting but was detained by votes in Washington. Because Sterigenics is a little outside of my district I know that there are many of you I probably don’t represent. But I want everyone to know what I’m working on to solve this problem and to reiterate my commitment to continue to work hard until we have some certainty about the health risks from Sterigenics and have taken the right steps to protect the our health. "Since we first learned of the problem, I have been in close contact with multiple federal agencies. In September I called for the U.S. EPA to either demonstrate that Sterigenics is safe, by testing the air throughout the community, or shut it down. I called for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to do a new health risk assessment based on EPA’s latest air testing. I called on EPA to provide expertise and assistance to any of the local communities that choose to do their own air testing. And I called on the EPA to immediately update their ethylene oxide regulations. "Last week, I introduced a bill in Congress that will require EPA to update those regulations, including a requirement that all facilities capture pollution from their back vents, as Sterigenics recently updated its Willowbrook facility to do. This week, I joined with Senators Durbin and Duckworth and Representatives Foster and Schneider in another similar effort. EPA has been negligent in their duty to protect public health and the environment. When Congress passed the Clean Air Act, it gave the EPA broad discretion – and responsibility – to regulate air pollutants as they saw fit. But they’re not doing their job in this case, which is why I’m working hard to hold them accountable and make things right. "I know that the main purpose of tonight’s event is for the experts to provide us with information and for you to have the opportunity to have your questions answered, so I will keep my remarks brief. My website, lipinski.house.gov, has a page dedicated to this issue that is a clearinghouse of information, and has contact information for my staff. Please don’t hesitate to contact me with questions, comments or concerns, especially those of you who live in the third district. For constituents of mine who already submitted questions for the EPA to my website, I want you to know that I have given those questions to the EPA. This issue is a top priority and I will do what it takes to address your needs."
11.28.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released following statement today: “Today, members of Problem Solvers Caucus announced that an agreement had been reached with Democratic Leaders to accept some of the House rules that we have been pursuing in our 'Break the Gridlock' proposal. While we didn’t get all that we asked for, and even though I believe we can and should seek more changes going forward, I’m pleased to have been able to make progress on these reforms. “From my days as a professor teaching American Government and studying Congress, I understand that it takes time to make significant changes to the way the House operates. The process should work in the way that the Schoolhouse Rock! 'I’m Just a Bill' video taught us – a bottom-up approach where a member writes a bill and gets a majority of colleagues to support it at every level before it is sent to the president to become a law. The good news with these rules changes is this: after a long time of more power consolidating in House leadership, this is the first time in decades that rules changes are moving in the direction of re-empowering individual members and giving Congress a better opportunity to work for the American people. “I am hopeful that these changes will start to 'Break the Gridlock' and begin to open up the legislative process to more bottom-up policymaking. In the current GOP-led 115th Congress, common-sense bipartisan proposals developed by the House Problem Solvers Caucus on health care, immigration reform, infrastructure, and other vital issues were blocked from ever reaching the House floor. Hopefully those days are over because the American people want us to solve these problems. “I appreciate the willingness of Leader Pelosi and Rules Committee Ranking Member Jim McGovern to work with us on these rules changes. In response to their pledged support, I voted yes for Nancy Pelosi in the Democratic caucus vote. “This agreement came together very quickly, so I look forward to seeing the details written down in formal language and placed into the rules package that we expect to have in the coming weeks. The vote on these rules changes will occur on the first day of the 116th Congress in January. Assuming the agreements are upheld, I expect that I will be voting for Nancy Pelosi for Speaker.”
11.21.2018	The U.S. EPA is hosting an open house and community forum in Willowbrook to answer questions and provide information about ethylene oxide (EtO) and the Willowbrook Sterigenics facility. Staff from the U.S. EPA, State of Illinois, and Tri-State Fire Department will provide answers and information in response to community questions received regarding EtO and what is known and not known about the specific conditions and risks at the Willowbrook Sterigenics plant. The U.S. EPA will also discuss ongoing activities and a timeline regarding sampling and evaluation of the contamination levels and risks for the Willowbrook community and the surrounding area, and plans for on-going community information and engagement. Details: November 29, 2018 Ashton Place Banquets 341 75th St Willowbrook, IL 60527 Open House: 3 to 6 p.m. Community Forum: 7 to 10 p.m. Open House: The open house will provide an opportunity for individuals to talk one-on-one with staff from multiple agencies and organizations, including Congressman Lipinski’s office, the U.S. EPA, the Illinois EPA, the federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, and others about their questions and concerns related to ethylene oxide. Community Forum: (subject to change) A key focus of the community forum will be to answer questions. Because of the large number of expected attendees, questions must be submitted in writing. Individuals may submit questions ahead of time to EtO@epa.gov and IL03Sterigenics@mail.house.gov (please send questions to both email addresses). People will also have the opportunity to write their questions on cards that will be available at the open house and during the forum. 7:00 PM Community Voices A video montage of issues and concerns from local stakeholders 7:15 PM Introduction to Tonight’s Forum How the meeting was designed and will work What we hope to achieve How we hope to inform everyone tonight and engage the community moving forward What we ask from everyone to ensure they get the information they desire 7:30 PM Welcome and Commitment from the Agencies Willowbrook Mayor Frank Trilla US EPA - William Wehrum, Assistant Administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation US EPA - Region 5 (TBD) Congressman Lipinski 7:45 PM Setting the Stage: Past, Current, and Future Activities to Understand Ethylene Oxide Emissions in Willowbrook, IL US EPA - Mike Koerber & Kelly Rimer 8:00 PM Panel Session 1. Questions Related to Ethylene Oxide and What We Know and Don’t Know About the Risks Around the Sterigenics Facility Community Questioners: Panelists: US EPA - Kelly Rimer, EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards ATSDR - Capt. Michelle Colledge, Ph.D., MPH Illinois Health Department cancer study (tentative) 8:30 PM Panel Session 2. Questions Related to the Sterigenics Willowbrook Facility Community Questioners: Panelists: USEPA - Mike Koerber, Deputy Office Director, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards State of Illinois - confirmed participant TBD Tri-State Fire Department 9:00 PM Panel Session 3. Questions Related to Future Plans to Inform and Engage the Community Surrounding the Sterigenics Willowbrook Facility Community Questioners: Panelists: US EPA - Laura McKelvey OAQPS Community and Tribal Programs Group ATSDR - Mark Johnson Ph.D. State of Illinois - TBD 9:30 PM Address Additional Questions Community and Local Government Questioners will ask panelists to address additional questions collected from the question cards throughout the Open House and Forum 9:55 PM Closing Comments USEPA - Bill Wehrum and Mike Koerber Community and Local Government Questioners
11.13.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is accepting nomination request letters from young women and men in the Third Congressional District who want to enter one of the U.S. Service Academies in 2019 until November 26, 2018. “One of my congressional duties that I cherish the most is helping young women and men pursue their goal of serving our nation by entering one of our prestigious military service academies,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It is an honor and privilege to be able to nominate outstanding young leaders who want to serve others.” The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1st of the year they would enter the academy, be a United States citizen, have graduated from high school, be unmarried, have taken the ACT and/or SAT, and have met the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Nominations will officially be announced in January of next year. Please be advised that a congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance into the academy. For more information, please call 773-948-6223 or go to lipinski.house.gov.
11.12.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is once again inviting veterans in the Third District to share their stories so they can be preserved in the Library of Congress Veterans History Project (VHP). For any veteran that is interested, the Congressman’s office will set up a recorded interview at a local site. The VHP collects, preserves, and makes accessible the personal accounts of veterans so that current and future generations can better understand the contributions and sacrifices they made. All veterans are invited to call Lipinski’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223 for more information. At the conclusion of the recorded interview, participants will receive a copy and one will be sent to the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. “Our history is the story of every person who has contributed in some way to our great nation, and that means every veteran, including those that served during the Cold War,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Our heroes are not just those we read about in the history books, but every man and woman who has served our nation in uniform. I encourage all veterans to take advantage of this great opportunity.” All recorded interviews will be housed in the permanent collections of the Library of Congress. They will be available to researchers, scholars, students, authors, filmmakers, and anyone else visiting the library. For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov.
11.07.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released following statement today: “The Democratic takeover of the majority in the U.S. House provides the opportunity for Congress to reassert its Constitutional role of conducting oversight of the Executive Branch and the President. This is part of Congress’ role in providing checks and balances in the federal government, but something that both parties often fail to do when there is one party in control. We also await the conclusion and publication of the Mueller report; it is critical that this investigation be allowed to move forward unobstructed and that Congress seriously consider the findings and act if necessary. “But this does not mean that we should spend the next two years doing nothing but conducting investigations in Washington. House Democrats should focus on finding workable solutions on the issues that are most important to improving the everyday lives of families across the Third District and our nation. These include bringing down sky-rocketing drug and hospital costs, keeping our children and our communities safe from violence, protecting our air and water, reforming our immigration laws, and improving education and making college more affordable. “As Illinois’ senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am hopeful that one of the first major pieces of legislation we pass next year will be a robust infrastructure bill that makes investments in our roads, public transit, airports, and other transportation systems, as well as in other aging infrastructure. This infrastructure investment is crucial for the district, our region, and the country, and I believe it is an issue that we can find agreement on across parties and between Congress and the President. “Two of the most productive legislative years that I have been a part of in Washington were 2007-2008 when Democrats controlled the House and George W. Bush was president. I know the current political divide makes cooperation much more unlikely today, but I remain hopeful that 2019-2020 can be productive in Washington. With so many problems faced by Americans today, it is critical that we work together on solutions and not just spend the next two years campaigning for 2020. It’s just common sense.”
10.26.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after joining with area leaders today for a ribbon cutting ceremony for the opening of Western Springs’ new train platform: “I was very happy to earmark $2.5 million in federal funding for this important project in Western Springs. As someone who understands the value to our community of a strong public transportation system, as well as a Metra rider myself, it is especially gratifying that we were able to get this done. I want to thank Village President Alice Gallagher, former Village President Bill Rodeghier, Metra Director Steve Palmer, village trustees, and other area stakeholders for their work to make this project a reality. “This much-needed project is part of an ongoing downtown revitalization effort designed to enhance the experience of commuters and others who come through downtown Western Springs through improvements in both safety and aesthetics. As a resident of Western Springs, it’s great to see this project completed and I look forward to working with local leaders to continue improving Metra service and the community.”
10.17.2018	Thanks to a law authored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the federal Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) has released the first American manufacturing strategy since the days of Alexander Hamilton. “Since I was first elected to Congress, I have been working to get Washington policymakers to understand the importance of American manufacturing and to create policies that promote manufacturing jobs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I am proud to have been able to pass the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act in 2014, which required the publication of this manufacturing strategy. I am hopeful that this is a watershed moment for American manufacturing and leads to better policies which will help grow manufacturing jobs for years to come.” The OSTP plan highlights the importance of the manufacturing sector to the current and future American economy. It emphasizes the need to invest in innovation to improve manufacturing technologies and processes, which will make American manufacturing more “cutting edge” and give it an advantage over global competition. The report also states that the country must better train its workforce for an increasingly technological manufacturing industry and expand the capabilities of the domestic supply chain. In addition, the report prioritizes cybersecurity, invests in innovation programs that help spur product creation, expands manufacturing-oriented workforce development programs such as credentialing and apprenticeships, emphasizes the vital need to have a strong defense industrial base to produce strategically important goods focusing on areas like communications and electronics, and bolsters “Buy American” laws. As co-chair of the Congressional Buy American Caucus, Lipinski is currently working to strengthen “Buy American” laws involving federal purchases. He understands how critical it is that federal taxpayer dollars are spent at home, employing Americans whenever possible. This is one of the fastest and most effective ways to create jobs and give the overall economy a boost. “I’m looking forward to learning more about how the Administration plans to implement their manufacturing strategy through their budget and other legislation, and I promise to be a willing partner in pursuing new opportunities that expand and improve American manufacturing and jobs,” Lipinski said. “I’m also planning to introduce legislation in the next Congress that will lead to the creation of regional manufacturing innovation clusters that foster the development and implementation of new processes and technologies.” “Finally a blueprint on the policies and programs needed to ensure that ‘Made in America’ labels will be on the products we can purchase in our stores,” stated Bill Hickey, Chairman of the Lapham-Hickey Steel Corporation in Bedford Park, Illinois. “This report is a must read for all Americans to understand the programs we as a country must provide our workers to achieve the education skills needed to produce in the ever-evolving advanced manufacturing economy. This strategy report also details the policies that must evolve to ensure that we have the ability to provide the manufacturing positions that will create wealth for all of the people in the workforce. The ability to create, innovate, and produce will unleash the creative genius of our people. As long as our nation allows innovation and market economics to continue to provide the increase in our standard of living, manufacturing will be a leading sector of this evolution. Congressman Dan Lipinski has been the major reason for the creation of this manufacturing strategy, and his dedication to the working men and women of this country should be admired by all of us who want to increase opportunity and economic growth for all of our fellow citizens.” “Every single American should be pleased now that Congressman Lipinski’s vision for the nation’s first manufacturing strategy since the late 1700’s has finally become a reality,” said Zach Mottl, Chief Alignment Officer for Atlas Tool Works in Lyons, Illinois. “In a world that is increasingly dominated by strategic competitors and countries who threaten the very underpinnings of American democracy, thanks to the Congressman’s leadership, our nation is developing a much-needed plan to ensure the continued success and security of American Manufacturing.” “Ensuring a robust U.S. advanced manufacturing sector is critical to our nation’s future, and the Administration’s new strategy is an important step in that direction,” said Robert Atkinson, President of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. “It will be up to Congress to ensure adequate funding to fully implement the strategy.” “I applaud Congressman Lipinski’s dedication to American workers and his leadership in introducing the legislation that made this report possible,” said Scott Paul, President of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “The report highlights what far too many fail to recognize, but what working Americans have always known: manufacturing is essential for the economic well-being of families, communities, and our nation as a whole. The attention this report brings to our domestic manufacturing sector is vital to ensuring that policymakers understand why bolstering manufacturing benefits us all. I welcome this report and urge decision-makers to take note. American innovation, jobs, and opportunity depend on it.”
10.04.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced H.R. 6967, the Great Lakes Water Protection Act, which will improve water quality in the Great Lakes Basin by working with wastewater treatment plants to end the dumping of untreated sewage during rain events. Through a process called blending, which happens when there is more water coming into a treatment plant than it can process, untreated or partially-treated sewage is mixed with fully-treated water before it is discharged. This bill will ban blending and provide financial assistance to help municipalities comply. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) will be introducing a Senate version of the bill in the coming weeks. “My bill and the legislation Senator Duckworth will be introducing in the Senate will improve water quality in the Great Lakes by ending the practice of blending and making sure that wastewater discharged into the lakes is fully-treated,” said Rep. Lipinski. “We are also creating a Great Lakes Cleanup Fund that will provide federal dollars to offset the cost of infrastructure improvements needed to end wastewater blending, and make sure that an undue burden is not placed on local residents.” “The Great Lakes is the source of drinking water for tens of millions of Americans and supports 1.5 million jobs,” said Senator Duckworth. “Yet, under the current rules, roughly 22 billion gallons of untreated sewage and stormwater are discharged into the Great Lakes each year, threatening the health and livelihoods of millions. Our legislation will help fix this problem by banning discharges of untreated sewage into the Great Lakes to protect local economies and ensure our water is clean for families in Illinois and throughout the Great Lakes region.” Because of a 2013 federal court decision, current blending policies are enforced differently in different states across the Great Lakes region. This bill will create a consistent, basin-wide policy and lead to improved water quality across the world’s largest freshwater ecosystem. The Great Lakes Cleanup Fund authorized by the bill will provide up to $250 million per year to support projects that lead to reductions in wastewater blending. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act has been endorsed by the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the National Wildlife Federation Great Lakes Regional Center, American Rivers, Environment Illinois, the Natural Resources Defense Council, and the Environmental Law and Policy Center.
10.04.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Pillars Community Health Center in La Grange has been awarded a federal grant through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The organization will receive $243,200 to help expand access to treatment for substance use and mental health services, and advance the Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) program. “Pillars Community Health has done a heroic job healing, caring, and educating for almost a century,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This funding to support care for people dealing with mental health and substance abuse issues will help Pillars continue the great work they have been doing in the community. I promise to keep fighting for more support for community health centers and for more funding for issues that no family is immune to.” SBIRT is a coordinated, integrated approach to medical and behavioral health treatment. Patients who come to Pillars Community Health for medical or dental services can receive screenings and brief interventions related to mental health and substance use. Since May of 2017, the Pillars Community Health Center has been one of 15 Federally Qualified Health Centers participating in the “Facilitating Change for Excellence in SBIRT Learning Collaborative,” an initiative of the National Council for Behavioral Health. “Our goal in expanding this program will be to effectively connect patients to an appropriate level of care in the healthcare setting where they’ve already established trusting relationships,” said Angela Curran, JD, LLM, president and CEO of Pillars Community Health. “As a community health center focused on expanding access to care, we are so proud of this important grant. We look forward to enhancing our resources toward our vision of helping people find equal access to the care they need, when they need it.” The new funding will help Pillars Community Health pay for additional staff and screening tools to identify substance use disorders such as hazardous drinking, alcohol abuse or dependence, use of prescribed and over the counter drugs, and non-medical use, and quickly connect individuals with needed education and treatment. Pillars Community Health is a nonprofit provider of health and social services. The organization is the result of a merger in January 2018 between Pillars and Community Nurse Health Center.
09.28.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recently released a report showing elevated cancer risk in McCook, Lyons, Stickney, Brookfield, and Riverside due to emissions of a chemical called ethylene oxide. The main source of emissions in this area is the Elé Corporation, a chemical company located in McCook. Although the levels of the chemical emitted don’t pose an immediate health risk, the EPA report shows that they could cause elevated cancer risk over a lifetime of exposure. “After speaking with representatives from the U.S. EPA, the Illinois EPA, the U.S. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, and the company, I learned that there is preliminary data showing that the actual levels of ethylene oxide in the air may be much lower than what the EPA report shows. These need to be confirmed by more detailed testing, so I am calling on the Elé Corporation to carry out such tests as soon as possible. If the tests show that there is a public health threat, the company needs to take immediate action to address it.”
09.27.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced H.R. 6907, the BuyAmerican.gov Act, which helps ensure that federal agencies follow Buy American laws and prioritize the purchase of American-made goods. The legislation directs the General Services Administration to establish a website to collect and display information about each request by a federal agency to bypass “Buy American” laws and purchase foreign-made products. If approved, manufacturers and others will be able to use the site to identify contract opportunities and hold federal agencies accountable for abusing “Buy American” waivers. Republican Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) joined Rep. Lipinski in introducing the bill. “Despite the fact that too many Americans still can’t find good-paying jobs, the federal government continues to buy many products outside our country instead of using our hard-earned tax dollars to buy American products and hire American workers,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This bipartisan bill will help change that.” “American taxpayers expect that when their hard-earned dollars are spent, those dollars should support American jobs,” said Rep. Bost. “This bipartisan legislation will improve transparency and better ensure that American workers and businesses can fairly compete on federal procurement opportunities.” In the last five years, federal agencies have spent $47.7 billion on goods manufactured by foreign firms. The Department of Defense, the largest purchaser of manufactured goods in the world, has spent almost $200 billion on manufactured goods made by foreign companies since 2007. At the same time, the United States has seen a reduction in middle-class manufacturing jobs that could have been kept in the U.S. A companion bill has been introduced in the Senate. Congressman Lipinski has been a leader when it comes to protecting and boosting American jobs. In recent years, he has successfully added critical “Buy American” provisions to bills involving water resources and the FAA. Last year he introduced the Buy American Improvement Act to create American jobs, promote the domestic manufacturing industry, increase transparency and accountability in government procurement, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent in the U.S. whenever practicable. This bill applies “Buy American” requirements to federal spending programs that are not covered in current law and closes gaping loopholes in programs where “Buy American” requirements are already law.
09.26.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives approved a five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which includes his amendment authorizing funding for air traffic control towers at smaller airports, such as Lewis University Airport in Romeoville. This bill is expected to pass the Senate soon and be sent to the President for his signature. “Small airports play an essential role in America’s aviation system and these airports can play an even bigger role if more are equipped with air traffic control towers. That is why I offered an amendment to the FAA reauthorization bill to allow smaller airports to apply for grants from the Small Airport Fund to construct control towers. This will help ensure that our airspace remains the gold standard for safety by helping small airports currently operating without towers to invest in this infrastructure. This would not only mean economic development around these smaller airports, but would relieve congestion at larger airports. One local airport that could benefit from this change is Lewis University Airport, currently handling more than 100,000 arrivals and departures annually and home to a top-notch aviation program.” Statement from Lewis University Airport Director Chris Lawson: “Lewis University Airport is fortunate to have such an active, engaged advocate in Congress who understands the needs of his constituents and those of the airport. Congressman Lipinski’s provision will help further Lewis University Airport’s priorities and support its ability to grow. We are grateful for his leadership in Washington and Illinois and look forward to working with him in the future to expand transportation in Will County.” Statement from David Silverman, Chairman of the Joliet Regional Port District Board, which oversees Lewis University Airport: “Congressman Lipinski’s amendment is a major step forward in helping Lewis University Airport find the funding we need to construct a much-needed air traffic control tower. We applaud the Congressman for his creative thinking in authoring this legislation, and for his long-time advocacy on behalf of the airport and Will County. We are fortunate to have him fighting for our region and we thank him for his commitment to increasing safety at the airport and creating jobs in Will County.”
09.26.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved a five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA): “The House has stepped up and passed a five-year reauthorization of the FAA with the Senate expected to follow soon. This bill is a compromise so it is far from perfect, but it gives this essential agency some stability and direction while including a number of wins for the traveling public, residents around airports, and airline workers. It continues investment in the nation’s airports and aviation facilities – albeit not as much as I would like to see – and it will help maintain the safest aviation system in the world. “While the final bill doesn't do what I am seeking in my Airline Consumer Protection Act, I was able to include several key provisions. One provision requires the Government Accountability Office to quantify all the costs to passengers that resulted from every airline computer failure since 2014, including the one that happened last night with Delta. I am hopeful this report will spur Congress to take further action to assure better passenger protections. Other provisions I authored will improve transparency in ticket sales and help develop the aviation workforce’s next generation. “Locally, the final bill includes a number of tools that can help lessen the noise heard by area residents from planes using Midway and O'Hare. This list of steps includes studies reviewing allowable decibel standards, the impact of continual noise on human health, and the relationship between noise and aircraft speeds. Another provision requires airport operators to submit revised noise maps to the FAA prior to proposed significant changes (like adding a runway), allows nearby communities or airport operators to ask the FAA to examine alternatives when designing new departure routes and directs them to take such requests into consideration, tasks the FAA with better public outreach when redesigning airspace, and creates a regional noise ombudsmen to listen to residents about the impact of airplane noise. “The reauthorization bill also changes how Passenger Facility Charges (PFCs) can be used, which could help finance multi-modal airport connections, like the on-airport segment of Elon Musk’s Chicago Express Loop, a proposed high-speed rail that would connect Chicago's Loop to O'Hare Airport. PFCs are a fee of up to $4.50 that almost all airline travelers in the United States pay in their ticket price. Efforts to increase the cap on fees in the final bill were not successful. “Another of my amendments authorizes $5 million a year to provide grants to schools, airlines, trade associations, governments, tech schools, and more to promote the development of the aviation technician workforce. Unfortunately, the bill does not include language which would prevent airlines from claiming operating bases in countries that lack protections for airline workers. This is a fight I will continue to protect American jobs.”
09.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is urging the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take additional steps to address public health concerns stemming from emissions of ethylene oxide – a known carcinogen – from the Sterigenics plant in Willowbrook. In a new letter to Andrew Wheeler, Acting Administrator of the U.S. EPA, Lipinski calls for immediate action by the agency to demonstrate that the emissions of ethylene oxide from the plant are no longer a threat to public health or use its authority under Section 303 of the Clean Air Act to shut down the plant. Since 1984, Sterigenics' Willowbrook facility has been using ethylene oxide to sterilize medical devices, pharmaceuticals, and food products. Last month, the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry released a report stating that residents who live near the Sterigenics plant are at an increased risk of cancer and other health problems, including neurological, respiratory, and gastrointestinal effects, as a result of ethylene oxide emissions. This report has justifiably shocked, angered, and led to additional questions from various stakeholders, including, most importantly, residents from the southwestern suburbs around the plant. “Looking at the map showing the increased cancer risks faced by people who live around this plant not only in Willowbrook, but in Indian Head Park, Burr Ridge, Western Springs, Hinsdale, Darien, Countryside, La Grange, and Westmont is frightening,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Although Sterigenics has followed state and federal laws, we now know that these laws are insufficient to protect the public’s health. This is an example of regulations not keeping up with science. “That’s why I’m asking the EPA to take action now to assess the degree of the health risk and shut down the facility if necessary,” continued Lipinski. “I am also asking that ethylene oxide monitors be installed that can detect harmful levels and warn the public in the future. The health, safety, and overall quality of life of the large population of people that live, work, and go to school near Sterigenics must come first.” In May of this year, the EPA conducted testing in the neighborhoods around the Sterigenics facility and found levels of ethylene oxide that posed an increased cancer risk. The venting of small amounts of ethylene oxide was allowed under state and federal law, in part because the EPA’s estimate of the cancer-causing potential of the gas was out of date. In 2016, the EPA updated its estimate, last updated in 1985, finding that ethylene oxide poses a 30 times greater cancer risk than previously thought. In July, the company upgraded its ventilation system to end the practice of venting directly to the outside air. They claim this change will reduce emissions by 90%.
09.19.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) a $100 million federal grant to help with phase one of the Red and Purple Line Modernization project. “As the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, co-chair of the Public Transit Caucus, and a regular user of public transportation, I understand the importance of a strong and modern public transportation system,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The time for the White House and Congress to prioritize this and other much-needed projects in a long-term, comprehensive national infrastructure bill is now.” The first phase of the CTA project includes the following: Signal system and infrastructure upgrades to accommodate train operation during construction. Modernization, expansion, and the addition of ADA accessibility at four Red Line stations (Lawrence, Argyle, Berwyn, and Bryn Mawr), and reconstruction and expansion of about 1.3-miles of track, structures, and viaducts to accommodate expanded stations and platforms from Leland Avenue on the south to near Ardmore Avenue on the north. Construction of a bypass (flyover) for the Brown Line at Clark Junction, just north of Belmont station, removing the largest physical capacity constraint in the project corridor, where three separate services on six tracks merge onto four tracks. This work will also realign and replace about 0.3-miles of associated mainline (Red and Purple line) tracks from Belmont station on the south to a stretch of track between Newport and Cornelia Avenues on the north, increasing speed, reliability, and capacity in the project corridor. Installation of a new higher-capacity signal system from Belmont Avenue to Howard Street, allowing for increased throughput of trains and increasing reliability of operation.
09.17.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is inviting students to participate in the 2018 Congressional App Challenge, a competition designed to encourage student involvement in computer science and coding. This nationwide effort allows students to compete against their peers by creating an application – or “app” – for web, PC, tablet, Raspberry Pi, mobile, or other platform of their choice. The Congressman will accept apps written in any programming language, including C, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, block code, etc. “As a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, co-chair of the STEM Ed Caucus, a longtime supporter of innovation and scientific research, and a former professor, I couldn’t be more excited to bring the App Challenge to the Third District,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at all levels is one of the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains one of the most technologically innovative countries in the world. This competition gives students a challenge that will help inspire them to learn and grow their computer programming skills.” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students who live in or go to school in the Third District. Students of all skill levels are encouraged to participate and learn how to create their own apps. The challenge is intended for high school students, but there is no minimum age required for participation. Students that have graduated from high school are not eligible to participate. Students may compete as individuals or in teams of up to four members. At least two members of each team must be eligible to compete in the district in which they enter. Apps created may cover any topic, but they must be original, appropriate, and created during the current contest cycle (between October 16, 2017 and October 15, 2018). Students entering the competition must submit their app on CongressionalAppChallenge.us by October 15, 2018. Submissions will be judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the Third Congressional District will be chosen by a panel of expert judges and will be featured on CongressionalAppChallenge.us. The winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol, along with other winners from across the country. Last year’s winner was Scott Turro from Lyons Township High School, who created an app called Water Ring Game. For more information, contact one of the Congressman’s offices or visit lipinski.house.gov.
09.17.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills has been awarded a $705,497 federal grant through the National Science Foundation. The school, along with Sinclair Community College in Ohio and Brookdale Community College in New Jersey, will use the funds to help increase the placement of highly-qualified cybersecurity professionals in the government. Through cohort-based learning, students at each of the colleges will collaborate on activities and events, including skills competitions, certification preparation workshops, visits to local federal agencies, and participation in job fairs. Experiential learning will allow students to gain skills from real cybersecurity vulnerabilities and attacks experienced by businesses and organizations. “Each week we learn of more cyberattacks in our nation and around the world,” said Rep. Lipinski. “These attacks have the potential to erode our military and economic security, threaten our elections, and harm consumers. American workers have lost jobs and businesses have been damaged because of cyberattacks, and that’s why it will continue to be a top priority of mine to put the necessary resources in place to help our nation prepare for and combat future attacks. Like in the private sector, there’s an urgent need for more skilled cybersecurity professionals in government, and this program will help build the talent pipeline for federal, state, and local government agencies. I’m proud of the strong leadership role Moraine Valley has taken to prepare our young people to address this critical issue.” The Community College Cyber Pilot Program was created by the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, which Congressman Lipinski supported. Its objectives are to: 1) research, develop, and document new strategic roles community colleges can play in increasing the number of cybersecurity professionals employed in government sectors; 2) build effective collaborations between educational institutions, business, industry, and government; 3) prepare students to help meet government need for highly qualified cybersecurity professionals; 4) disseminate best practice models designed for replication by other colleges across the country.
09.13.2018	The House of Representatives has passed the final version of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, which contains a number of key provisions led by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) that will help stop the threat of Asian Carp to the Great Lakes and facilitate the restoration of Bubbly Creek in Chicago. Overall, the bill reauthorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to improve and maintain America’s vital inland water infrastructure and ports, providing good-paying jobs and boosting both the region’s and the country’s economy. As Illinois’ most senior member on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Lipinski was able to include an amendment in the bill that addresses the Asian Carp problem that poses a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem. The legislation sets the federal share of the cost at 80% for the installation of new technology at Brandon Road to block the carp, which will allow Illinois to continue its leadership role as the Army Corp’s non-federal project partner in Asian Carp mitigation activities. In addition, the amendment contains a provision that directs the Army Corps to consult with the Governor of Illinois before changes are made. A separate amendment to the bill was adopted which directs the Army Corps to expedite completion of the Brandon Road study. The final bill also includes an amendment authored by Rep. Lipinski that calls for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to enter into an agreement with the Environmental Protection Agency to move forward with ecosystem restoration activities at the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River, commonly known as Bubbly Creek. It has a history of pollution going back more than 100 years to the Union Stockyards. Lipinski has already secured one million dollars for the restoration project.
09.07.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded Midway Airport an over $9 million grant for various upgrades and repairs, including the installation of runway incursion markings, apron reconstruction, and the rehabilitation of runway and taxiway lighting. “Midway serves an important role in both national air travel and our regional economy,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This investment will help to ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible. I will continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway and the neighborhoods and communities around it.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Since coming into office, he has helped secure tens of millions of dollars for projects to improve the airport and surrounding communities.
09.06.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Saint Xavier University (SXU) a $1.46 million grant – the largest of its kind in SXU history – to support underserved students pursuing a career in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. Thirty-eight percent of students at SXU are Hispanic, and this award marks the first grant SXU has received as part of the NSF’s Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program. “This grant will be a great help as Saint Xavier advances its commitment to training students for careers in STEM fields,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As a former teacher and one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, I believe strongly that improving STEM education for everyone is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world, and that our young people receive an education that will allow them to succeed both now and in the future.” In the House of Representatives, Lipinski serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and is co-chair of the Congressional STEM Education Caucus. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, he wrote the bill reauthorizing the NSF. “We are honored for the opportunity to expand STEM education for our undergraduate students,” said SXU President Laurie M. Joyner. “With this support, we will be able to offer more high-impact learning experiences along with the academic support students need to stay on track to complete their studies toward a career in a STEM field following graduation. It is because of our committed SXU community that our institution continues to actualize its mission of educating the underserved for lives of meaning and career success.” The NSF grant will support a project that will implement four objectives: (1) create a STEM Studio to provide a gathering place for a community of SXU scientific scholars; (2) centralize targeted academic support strategies for undergraduates in science courses at critical transition points; (3) provide opportunities for student-faculty collaborative research and for other high-impact learning experiences such as short-term field research; and (4) provide networking opportunities and curriculum enhancements that connect academic coursework to the workplace. The program, which begins in October, will be co-led by a cross-departmental team of faculty and staff, which includes: Bindhu Alappat, associate professorand Chemistry Department chair; Thomas Thorp, professor of philosophy; David Elmendorf, associate professor of biology; Julia Bingham Wiester, assistant professor of chemistry; and Maureen Wogan, associate provost for Retention, Records, and Advising.
09.06.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bill requiring the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to develop resources to help small businesses identify, assess, manage, and reduce cybersecurity risks has been signed into law. While cyberattacks cost companies hundreds of thousands of dollars, many are unable to defend themselves. This new law (H.R. 2105) requires NIST resources to be affordable and able to scale with the size of any business. “Most small businesses do not have significant IT departments,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Some don’t even have any dedicated information security personnel, so they may be more at risk of cyberattacks than large enterprises. These incidents hurt individual small business owners, employees, and customers, and they also hurt American competitiveness. In my district, there is a fourth generation family manufacturing business that has suffered multiple sophisticated phishing attacks. The few times they have fallen victim to these attacks, the costs have been significant. The owners have told me that they would welcome guidance on affordable, off-the-shelf resources to strengthen their cyber-defenses and let them get back to focusing on their business. This is a story repeated across the country, which is why this new law is so important.”
09.04.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Several newspapers have reported that the Trump Administration plans to cut all funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), the organization that provides essential services to Palestinians in the West Bank, Gaza, Syria, Lebanon, and Jordan. Abruptly ending United States funding contributions to the UNRWA is a dangerous move. “Although the agency is not perfect, cutting its budget will make an already dire humanitarian situation even worse. It also has the potential to lead to violence that could threaten Israeli security. That is why voices from the U.S. foreign aid establishment and the Israeli defense community have cautioned against such a move. “As we pursue the U.S. foreign policy goal of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we need institutions in place that can implement agreements and facilitate the transition to a peaceful coexistence. Without an alternative plan in place, ending our support for the UNRWA does not move us toward this goal.”
08.31.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Northwest Homer Fire and Ambulance Protection District, which serves an area that includes Homer Glen, Homer Township, Lockport, Lemont, and Lemont Township, has been awarded a nearly $324 thousand grant through the Department of Homeland Security to help with hiring expenses. “It is becoming more and more difficult for local communities to provide the funding needed for fire protection and ambulance service,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I’m pleased this grant will help the Northwest Homer Fire Protection District hire more brave men and women to help protect people in this fast-growing area.” “We appreciate Congressman Lipinski’s assistance with this grant which will allow us to hire additional firefighters,” said Northwest Homer Fire and Ambulance Protection District Chief Ken Vrba. “We look forward to continuing to provide top-notch service and care to the surrounding community.” The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
08.29.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the Burbank Fire Department has been awarded an over $125 thousand grant through the Department of Homeland Security to help pay for Source Capture Exhaust Systems for both of the city’s fire stations. These systems capture vehicle exhaust and ensure that the firefighters are breathing the cleanest air possible while in the station. “All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job,” said Rep. Lipinski. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety.” “We would like to thank Congressman Lipinski for his support in achieving this grant and providing these cancer prevention efforts for our firefighters,” said the Burbank Fire Department, City Council, and Mayor Dan Foy in a joint statement. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
08.28.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following remarks today: “As a long-time critic of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which has cost hundreds of thousands of middle-class Americans their livelihood, my hopes have been raised by news that a new bilateral trade deal with Mexico has been reached. But the details of this new agreement are critical and the situation with Canada still must be resolved. I look forward to reviewing the proposal to make sure it serves middle-class families.”
08.28.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following remarks today: “Metra commuters pay for and deserve service they can rely on. Like many of you, I am deeply concerned with issues that have been impacting riders on the BNSF Line, including yesterday’s incident at Union Station. “Earlier today, I talked with Metra leadership to better understand what went wrong yesterday. Apparently, two separate issues were to blame and the incident is under investigation. But I also raised issues of delays, A/C problems, schedule changes, and other problems that have impacted the line, and I said that all these issues must be resolved. “Metra conveyed that they understand our expectations and are working with BNSF, the operator of the line, to meet them. As both a representative of thousands of people who ride the BNSF line daily and a user of this line, the only acceptable solution here is results.”
08.27.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) will be receiving a Department of Transportation grant for $2.29 million to add more electric, zero-emission buses to their fleet. As the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and co-chair of the House Public Transportation Caucus, Lipinski was able to add a provision to the last long-term transportation bill, known as the FAST Act, that created the Low or No Emission Program the CTA is now receiving money from. “This grant is another step forward for the CTA in helping the environment and paving the way for more clean transportation technology,” said Rep. Lipinski. “We must continue to invest in American clean energy innovation.” Specifically, the CTA will use the grant dollars to help purchase electric buses and chargers with on-route charging capabilities.
08.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the Lockport Township Fire Protection District has been awarded an over $329 thousand grant through the Department of Homeland Security for new protective breathing apparatuses. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will allow the Lockport Township Fire Protection District to purchase much needed new equipment. In doing so, they will be able to continue to build upon their already impressive record of service.” “Our current breathing apparatus units are 15 plus years old and at the end of their service life,” stated Lockport Township Fire Protection District Chief Paul Hertzmann. “There have been dramatic improvements to this product over the last few years and these new units will provide our firefighters with the latest innovations to keep them safe during emergency events.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
08.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Cicero Fire Department has been awarded a nearly $1.48 million grant through the Department of Homeland Security to help with hiring expenses. “I am happy to have assisted the Cicero Fire Department in winning this large grant to add nine new firefighters,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This funding will help the Fire Department continue its great work in protecting area residents.” “We appreciate the hard work and support that we receive from Congressman Lipinski,” said Cicero Town President Larry Dominick. “This grant will strengthen the Cicero Fire Department by allowing us to hire more personnel. Our Fire Department is one of the best and was recently recognized with a Class 2 ISO Rating, and they continue to provide the highest quality in emergency response services to our residents.” “This Federal Grant brought to us with the support of Congressman Dan Lipinski will strengthen the Fire Department’s already strong commitment to provide the best and highest quality emergency responses to our residents, our homes, and our businesses,” said Cicero Fire Chief Dominick Buscemi. “We appreciate all the support that Congressman Lipinski provides to our community.” The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
08.23.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that Moraine Valley Community College (MVCC) in Palos Hills has been awarded a $600 thousand grant through the National Science Foundation to help establish an “Internet of Things (IoT)” Coordination Network to bring together representatives of industry, manufacturers, academia, and users of integrated smart devices to examine emerging technologies, explore new products and devices, and provide guidance to educators preparing the next generation of technicians. IoT is the term used to describe the use and integration of smart devices capable of monitoring, controlling, collecting, sending, and receiving data to intelligent systems. The coordination network also intends to include experts on protecting the users and environments that are projected to be affected by these IoT devices. “The first step in securing our cyber future is education, and that means everything from educating individuals, to companies, to the next generation of IT professionals,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Over the years, Moraine Valley has trained countless people in cyber-related fields and served as a leader and a resource for other community colleges around the country offering cyber programs of their own. These individuals are now making a difference nationwide, and I’m pleased that this grant will help build on that success.” The emergence of IoT is already transforming homes, institutions of education, manufacturing facilities, and other work places. The network plans to complete research projects on IoT products, technologies, standards, and applications, and the results of these studies will help to inform decisions about how to optimally develop IoT programs at community colleges. “This grant allows Moraine Valley to bring together experts in the area of IoT, manufacturers and people who write standards for these devices,” said Dr. John Sands, professor and department chair of Information Technology and director and principal investigator of the Center for Systems Security and Information Assurance NSF Regional Center at MVCC. “We will do research and develop standards to be taught in classrooms to meet the future needs of employers. Moraine Valley is leading this charge because we’re highly recognized in cybersecurity education. Our fingers will be on the pulse of what’s coming out and what we should be deploying in our classrooms. We’ll also host national meetings and involve our students with employers.” “Since 1999, Moraine Valley has received over $11 million in cybersecurity related grants from the National Science Foundation,” said Dr. Sharon Katterman, MVCC Director of Resource Development and Institutional Effectiveness. “Our first grant supported the development of the college’s A.A.S. degree in Applied Internet Technology and our next grant, awarded in 2003, established the college’s Center for Systems Security and Information Assurance (CSSIA). Since then, the college has received six NSF grants, all of which allow us to continually update our cybersecurity education programming to respond to changing labor market needs.”
08.22.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “President Trump’s rollback of the Clean Power Plan would cause 1,400 premature deaths, 21,000 missed school days, and 48,000 cases of asthma by 2030, according to the Trump Administration’s own analysis, all while increasing electricity costs for hard-working Americans across the country. On top of that, it will lead to major increases in CO2 pollution of up to 63%, making heat waves, forest fires, and other effects of global warming worse. I am in discussions with my colleagues about the best strategies to block this dangerous rollback. The EPA’s mission is to protect human health and the environment, and this plan does exactly the opposite.”
08.21.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that Metra will receive almost $23 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation for implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC) safety technology. PTC is a federally mandated computerized system that prevents certain types of train-to-train collisions, helps avoid derailments and other accidents caused by excessive speed, and increases safety for rail workers. “This is good news for Metra users and every commuter in the Chicago area,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Representing a district with a large number of rail lines, I have always made safety a top priority on the Railroad Subcommittee. In 2008, I included language in a bill to create the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to help railroads install life-saving PTC more quickly. Last Congress, I joined with Rep. Quigley on a bill to reauthorize the grant program so that Metra could get federal help to install this critical technology.” Lipinski is also pleased to announce that the Belt Railway Company of Chicago has received an $8.6 million dollar grant from the Department of Transportation for the installation of PTC technology. “I will continue to push my colleagues in Congress to consider a comprehensive infrastructure bill before the end of the year that includes additional dollars to help expedite the implementation of PTC both in the region and across the country,” Lipinski stated.
07.26.2018	Several key provisions authored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) have been included in the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, H.R. 5515, which passed the House today and will soon become law. These provisions will aid veterans, keep military personnel safer, fight terrorism, promote medical innovation, and help small business innovators. An amendment Lipinski added to the bill on the House floor ensures access to commissaries and morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) facilities for Purple Heart recipients, all veterans with a service-connected disability, Medal of Honor recipients, former prisoners of war, and veteran caregivers. A 2017 Defense Department report shows that expanding access will not only make lives easier for these veterans, but it will also strengthen the commissary and exchange system. Lipinski’s provision has been endorsed by the VFW, American Legion, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Wounded Warrior Project, Disabled American Veterans, and AMVETS. This was based on his legislation, H.R. 5467, the Purple Heart and Disabled Veterans Equal Access Act, which he introduced in April of this year. “On the behalf of our two million members, The American Legion supports Representative Lipinski’s National Defense Authorization Act amendment, as currently written, to expand commissary and Morale, Welfare and Recreation access to Purple Heart recipients, all disabled veterans, and their caregivers,” said American Legion National Commander Denise Rohan. “This will provide better quality of life for our wounded warriors and their families, and create a larger commissary customer base which will further strengthen this important benefit. Military families gain substantial savings by using the commissary system and this benefit helps in military recruiting and retention efforts. Representative Lipinski’s amendment is good for military families and the veteran community. “ “Extending military commissary and exchange benefits to Purple Heart recipients is a priority for which our organization has long advocated, and the Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH) is immensely pleased that this will finally become a reality with the passage of this year's NDAA,” said MOPH National Commander Neil Van Ess. “This is a win for veterans and a win for the commissary and exchange systems. MOPH strongly supported Congressman Lipinski's Purple Heart and Disabled Veterans Equal Access Act, and we thank him for his steadfast leadership on this issue.” “Wounded Warrior Project appreciates the leadership of Representative Lipinski and members of the Armed Services Committees for approving legislation to open commissaries, exchanges, and recreational programming to wounded warriors and their caregivers,” said René Bardorf, Senior Vice President of Government and Community Relations for the Wounded Warrior Project. “This new law will provide significant cost savings for our warriors on a fixed income, and associated increases in revenue will help support on-base quality-of-life programs for those who serve and their families.” “Extending commissary privileges to discharged veterans who have been wounded in the line of duty or disabled as a result of their service to our nation is the least we can do for them,” stated AMVETS Executive Director Joseph Chenelly. “Including a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act to extend these privileges to such a deserving segment of our nation's veterans represents a small but important and meaningful act of fidelity.” Rep. Lipinski was also able to secure language in the NDAA that helps ensure closer oversight in the production of armored commercial vehicles used by the Department of Defense and other federal agencies. This issue has been brought to light by failures of vehicles intended to keep personnel safe in dangerous locations around the world. This will help local and American businesses by preventing sub-standard foreign armored vehicles from being procured by military services. Earlier this year, Lipinski introduced the Iranian Military and Terror Financing Reporting Act, H.R. 5612, to require the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, to report on Iranian support for proxy forces and terrorist groups outside the country, including Hezbollah. A modified version of this proposal has been included in the NDAA and will help better inform anti-terrorism policymaking. The Congressman was also able to include legislation which will help lead to better health outcomes for everyone. Specifically, his language will reauthorize the Research Evaluation and Commercialization Hubs, a National Institutes of Health program, to accelerate medical innovations to market. Since its inception, the program has resulted in a significant number of new patents filed and promising technologies in the pipeline. Finally, Lipinski was able to secure a win for U.S. small businesses in the bill. This provision gives recipients of federal small business grants greater flexibility to spend their grant funds on technical and business assistance.
07.25.2018	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with members of the bipartisan House Problem Solvers Caucus at a press conference in the U.S. Capitol to propose a set of changes to the House Rules designed to break the gridlock and make Congress work for the American people. “Our Constitution empowered the American people by empowering Congress and their representatives. But congressional rules are now rigged in a way that greatly diminishes our ability to represent our constituents,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This has resulted in a Congress that doesn’t work and is frozen in partisan gridlock, allowing the president and the courts to grab the power that is supposed to be held by the American people. By instituting these proposed reforms, we will begin to restore this power, break partisan gridlock, and facilitate congressional problem solving that will help us build a better America for future generations.” In proposing these rules changes, the Caucus aims to encourage and reward consensus driven governing, foster passage of member initiatives solving constituent priorities, and increase accountability and transparency. The reform package includes proposals to give fast-track priority consideration to bipartisan legislation and guarantees markups on bipartisan legislation from every Member of Congress. To encourage consensus driven governing, the package would also replace the current “Motion to Vacate the Chair.” For nearly two years the members of the Problem Solvers Caucus have worked to find bipartisan agreement on the toughest issues facing Congress. The Caucus offered a healthcare compromise to help stabilize the individual marketplace, an agreement on our nation’s DREAMERs and border security, support for gun and school safety legislation, and recommendations for a bipartisan infrastructure package. However, these policy solutions have faced large obstacles because House rules present significant hurdles to bipartisan policymaking. The Problem Solvers Caucus plans to work with other House Caucuses in the coming weeks to collaborate and help build consensus around House rules changes ahead of the next Congress.
07.25.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after the release of House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster’s discussion draft of proposed infrastructure investment legislation: “More than a year and a half ago, President Trump promised a trillion dollars for much-needed infrastructure, but nothing has been delivered. This has been a missed opportunity to work on a bipartisan priority that is needed for America’s success. So I’m pleased that House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster has put out a draft bill that I hope will begin the serious discussion we need to have. Chairman Shuster’s infrastructure plan is a good start and I commend him for putting forth a serious proposal, but the plan needs work. “It is critical that we acknowledge and deal with the looming shortfall of the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) and this proposal offers a detailed plan. It would increase the federal motor fuel tax, expand the tax base, and restructure contributions in the long run. The gas tax would be increased by 15 cents per gallon over three years, while diesel would be increased by 20 cents per gallon over the same period. After that, the taxes would be increased annually by the rate of inflation. A number of new taxes, including on the sale of electric car batteries and bicycle tires would also be deposited into the HTF. Chairman Shuster estimates that this new revenue will be sufficient to keep the trust fund solvent and fund significant new investment in our nation’s infrastructure over the next decade. “I am troubled by parts of the proposal which would effectively raise the tax burden on mass transit systems, increasing their operating costs while simultaneously siphoning off funds that could otherwise be used for much-needed capital investments. Ultimately, these are costs that would be passed along to riders, making public transit less affordable and less effective, and diminishing the effectiveness of federal transit support. I also believe that collecting taxes on bicycle tires isn’t a wise policy choice, as bike riders use so little of our federally-funded infrastructure, and there are many secondary benefits from active transportation modes like cycling. “The proposal also makes changes to federal programs that fund local water and sewer projects, which could be helpful to the many municipalities in our area that face huge costs for repair or replacement of crumbling systems. “I am pleased to see important policy improvements for Projects of National and Regional Significance, BUILD grants, and the RRIF program. Projects like CREATE have broad benefits on mobility, freight, the environment, and our quality of life, but pulling together funding for such large-scale projects has been a challenge. Giving Congress new authorities to promote projects, increasing funding for big infrastructure and expanding opportunities for rail and transit-oriented developments, will help us move forward more vital projects that will benefit our communities. “However, the draft does contain a number of streamlining provisions which are similar to the Trump Administration’s proposal that could circumvent key environmental protections and weaken public input during the project planning and development process. Cutting unnecessary bureaucratic red tape is good, but we cannot do it at the expense of our environment and public input. “Now is the time for bold leadership on the future of our nation’s infrastructure. I appreciate the time and thought that went into Chairman Shuster’s proposal, and I look forward to continuing to work in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to examine its feasibility, and ultimately pass legislation with real investments and improvements to our nation’s infrastructure.”
07.16.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today’s press conference with Trump and Putin was stunning and disturbing. The President must stop putting personal defense and defense of the legitimacy of his election victory ahead of American security and safety. This is unacceptable. America’s intelligence agencies are essential to our national security and should not be undermined, especially by a president. “Congress must make sure that it protects our national security and holds Russia accountable for interference in the 2016 election. And Congress must also do all it can to protect the security of the 2018 election. “Russia poses a threat to the western world and we must deal with that threat. Over the past few years as some said not to worry about Russia because it is weak and declining, I have continued to warn that it is a threat and have fought to counter Russian aggression. The Mueller investigation must continue unimpeded.”
07.06.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “The Administration’s nomination of former Metra Chairman and Chicago Alderman Marty Oberman to fill a vacancy on the U.S. Surface Transportation Board is the right move for both our region and the country. I have known Marty personally since the 1970s and believe that his many years of public service with a focus on reform will be critical as a member of an agency with broad oversight over our nation’s railroads. As Illinois’ most senior member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I look forward to working with him to alleviate area rail congestion, improve commuter rail and Amtrak service, and strengthen the overall quality of life for my constituents. I urge the Senate to confirm him as soon as possible.”
07.05.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “The resignation of Scott Pruitt from the EPA is welcome news. His lack of respect for our bedrock environmental laws and his abysmal ethics record made him a disastrous Administrator. His replacement should be someone who is actually committed to the mission of the EPA and protecting the environment. Our health and the health of future generations is more important than catering to those who put their profit above our health.”
06.15.2018	Over the next few weeks, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting, a Veterans Fair, and two Senior Fairs in the Third Congressional District. At the Town Hall Meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions about federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s offices will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. During the Veterans Fair, Lipinski’s staff will be joined by the Illinois and U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs and other organizations to assist with a variety of issues, including military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA Hospital billing, placement in VA homes, and GI Bill information. The Senior Fairs will give district residents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services for seniors. “I encourage residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting, Veterans Fair, and Senior Fairs,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you. In addition, these events will be great opportunities for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my office provides.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming events are as follows: Town Hall Meeting Saturday, June 30 10:00 – 11:30 a.m. Holiday Inn – Midway Airport 6624 South Cicero Avenue, Chicago Congressional staff will be available starting at 9:00 a.m. for assistance with federal agencies Veterans Fair Monday, July 2 10:00 a.m. – noon Oremus Community Center 7900 South Oketo Avenue, Bridgeview Senior Fairs Friday, July 6 10:00 a.m. – noon Lockport American Legion Post 18 15052 Archer Avenue, Lockport Monday, July 9 10:00 a.m. – noon Louis S. Viverito Senior Center 7745 Leamington Avenue, Burbank For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov or call his Chicago office at 773-948-6223.
06.14.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today: “I am deeply concerned about children being separated from their parents at border crossings. Enforcing our laws is important, but we must do it right and we must respect human rights. The Administration should ensure that their policies do not result in needless and traumatic separation of children from their families. No bond is as precious and vital as that between a child and their parent. When our nation’s leaders dismiss the impact of their actions on parents and children, we lose sight of our principles and what this nation stands for.”
06.07.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Village of Justice has been awarded federal funding in the amount of nearly $13.5 million to cover their share of the cost of new tollway access to be constructed at 88th/Cork Avenue at I-294. This project consists of the addition of a Tri-State Tollway (I-294) northbound exit and southbound entrance ramp. “This is fantastic news for the Village of Justice and the surrounding area,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Once completed, this much-needed project will improve access to and from I-294 for local residents and businesses, and help open the door to future economic development within the village and neighboring communities.” The project also includes intersection improvements along 88th/Cork Avenue at 79th Street and Archer Road. In addition, the Illinois Tollway will be constructing a future northbound entrance ramp from Archer Road with the Central Tri-State Reconstruction Project. “This is an original impact project that will positively affect several municipalities by creating an economic surge, and provide a positive environmental impact by allowing for reductions in fuel usage and improving roadway safety and mobility,” said Justice Mayor Kris Wasowicz. “This project has been successfully moving forward because of strong coordination between the Village of Justice, Illinois Tollway, Illinois Department of Transportation, and Cook County, and because of the full support provided by local leaders such as Congressman Lipinski.”
06.07.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and over 100 of his colleagues sent a bipartisan letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt today urging him to withdraw a recently-proposed “transparency rule” that would limit scientific research available to EPA policy makers as they draft regulations. “We support transparency and scientific integrity,” Lipinski and the other lawmakers stated in the letter. “However, the proposed rule will limit transparency and undermine the scientific integrity of the EPA’s rulemaking process. It would also implement an opaque process allowing the EPA to selectively suppress scientific evidence without accountability and, in the process, undermine bedrock environmental laws.” Nearly one thousand scientists and many leading scientific organizations have opposed the proposed rule since it was issued in late April. The letter was signed by 103 House members, and led by Representatives Lipinski, DeGette, Tonko, and Beyer. The proposed rule requires that data underlying EPA’s regulatory actions be made publicly available to allow for independent validation. Such a standard could exclude studies that utilize confidential industry and health data that are vital to understanding the nature of chemical pollutants, the impacts of pollution, and the most effective ways to protect the environment and public health. “The proposed rule appears to be targeted at excluding important public health studies, while privileging industry-sponsored research,” said Lipinski and his peers in the letter. “It also fails to adequately consider the costs of implementation and the potential privacy implications. Finally, the discretion it gives the Administrator to grant case-by-case exemptions completely undermines the stated goal of transparency.”
06.07.2018	The House of Representatives has passed H.R. 8, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, which contains a number of important provisions led by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) that will help support and expedite local flood prevention projects, stop the threat of Asian Carp to the Great Lakes, and facilitate the restoration of Bubbly Creek in Chicago. The bill reauthorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to improve and maintain America’s vital inland water infrastructure and ports, providing good-paying jobs and boosting the region’s and the country’s economy. In the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup of the bill, Lipinski added an amendment he authored which calls on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to enter into an agreement with the Environmental Protection Agency to move forward with ecosystem restoration activities at the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River, commonly known as Bubbly Creek. It has a history of pollution going back more than 100 years to the Union Stockyards. The Congressman has already secured one million dollars for the restoration project. An amendment cosponsored by Lipinski that was added to the bill on the House floor addresses the Asian Carp problem that poses a serious threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem. The amendment sets the federal share of the cost at 80% for the installation of new technology at Brandon Road to block the carp, which will allow Illinois to continue its leadership role as the Army Corp’s non-federal project partner in Asian Carp mitigation activities. The amendment also contains a provision which directs the Army Corps to consult with the Governor of Illinois before changes are made. A separate amendment to the bill was adopted which directs the Army Corps to expedite completion of the Brandon Road study. As Illinois’ most senior member on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Lipinski was also able to include in the bill a number of provisions that will support the Chicago Metropolitan Water Reclamation District’s (MWRD) work to advance critical flood control and stormwater management projects. One of those provisions continues a pilot program that allows local project sponsors, like MWRD, to build projects on behalf of the Army Corps, which often expedites important projects and saves taxpayer money in the process. This will help with a number of flood control projects in the Third District.
06.05.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), along with other members of the Illinois delegation, is announcing $132 million in federal funding to the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency (CREATE) Program for the 75th Street Corridor Improvement Project (CIP). This investment from the U.S. Department of Transportation will help separate several freight and passenger rail lines in the Englewood, Auburn Gresham, and West Chatham neighborhoods that currently intersect and create significant delays, train idling, and congestion. This project is an important step in updating the region’s rail infrastructure and will help increase reliability and efficiency nationally. Once completed, SouthWest Service and Rock Island Metra passengers in the Congressman's district should see a substantial improvement in overall service. “This is a big win for the Chicago area,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “The CREATE program is critical to our region in creating jobs, boosting the economy, improving Metra and Amtrak service, and alleviating blocked rail crossings. Since I was able to secure the initial $100 million grant to begin CREATE in 2005, we have made significant progress in this public-private partnership with federal funding leading the way. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to secure further funding and complete CREATE.” Including the initial $100 million and today's grant, Lipinski has now worked to secure over $765 million for CREATE. In addition, he has led several delegation letters in support of funding for CREATE, and he helped push the Department of Transportation to resolve an ongoing issue related to minority contracting on the Englewood Flyover project. According to CREATE, when the 75th Street CIP is complete, it will eliminate 18,500 annual passenger hours of delay by removing conflicts between freight and commuter trains, increase capacity at Union Station, decrease train idling, improve air quality in the surrounding neighborhoods, and replace or rehabilitate 36 viaducts for increased mobility.
05.25.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) legislation to honor Purple Heart recipients and other American heroes by giving them access to Department of Defense commissaries and recreation facilities has been approved by the House of Representatives. It was included as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. Lipinski’s amendment ensures access to commissaries and morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) facilities for Purple Heart recipients, all veterans with a service-connected disability, Medal of Honor recipients, former prisoners of war, and veteran caregivers. “We should all agree that these heroes of our armed forces have done more than enough to earn this access, said Rep. Lipinski on the House floor during debate on his amendment. “It is our duty as a nation to not only say that we appreciate their service, but also to enact policies such as this demonstrating our gratitude. A 2017 Defense Department report shows that expanding access will not only make lives easier for these veterans, but will also strengthen the commissary and exchange system.” Lipinski’s amendment was endorsed by the VFW, American Legion, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Wounded Warrior Project, Disabled American Veterans, and AMVETS. Commissaries are grocery/department stores on military installations that sell food and some household items. MWR facilities offer a range of services on bases including libraries, outdoor recreation, dining, golf courses, and sports and fitness centers.
05.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) delivered the following statement on the House floor before his amendment requiring an annual report from the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence describing Iranian expenditures on military and terrorist activities outside the country was approved: “Iran is the world's foremost state sponsor of terrorism. In spite of their weak economy and U.S. imposed sanctions in response to their support for terrorism, abuse of human rights, and acquisition of prohibited weapons, they continue to expend exorbitantly in support of violent groups abroad. “As our diplomatic and military leaders determine how best to respond to Iran, they and the world, including Iranians, should have a detailed accounting of the amount spent by Iran to support specific terrorist groups. This is especially important in light of the escalating conflict between Israel and Iran-backed forces in Syria. We need to cast additional light on how much and where Iran is spending in support of these armed groups, and the conflict they foment. “My amendment sends a clear message to Iran and our allies that we do not tolerate support of terrorism.”
05.21.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has named Nazareth Academy Freshman Gianna Imbarrato as the Third District’s winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Lipinski visited Nazareth this morning to announce that Gianna had won the competition. She used chalk to draw Illinois’ state butterfly, the Monarch, resting on a pink Zinnia. Her drawing will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year alongside the winning pieces from congressional districts from across the country, and she will receive two round-trip tickets for the exhibition opening this summer in Washington, D.C. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen chalk used so effectively,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Using shadows and a blended background to show depth, it took Gianna four months to create this beautiful image in meticulous detail. Thank you to Gianna and all the students who participated in this year’s competition. There are a lot of talented young artists in the district. Special thanks to all of our area art teachers for the dedication that they show to their students.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of high school students in their districts.
05.16.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today after the Senate Net Neutrality vote: “The Senate took a bold step today towards reinstating Net Neutrality and protecting an open internet. We need a free and open internet where control of available content cannot be bought by the highest bidder. That is what the Net Neutrality rule was about before it was eliminated by President Trump’s FCC. I urge the House to act as soon as possible.”
04.27.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives approved the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018: “This five-year reauthorization bill will enable the Federal Aviation Administration to continue investing in the nation’s airports and aviation facilities, integrating new technologies and maintaining the safest aviation system in the world. While this bill could have been better at protecting passengers and facilitating airport upgrades, I was able to include several key provisions that will improve the travel experience for airline passengers. “Those provisions include increased protections for consumers buying airline tickets from online travel sites, clean-energy vehicles at airports that will protect the environment, and disclosure rules that will help promote the purchase of American-made goods. I was also able to include an amendment requiring the Government Accountability Office to study the costs and burdens imposed on travelers when airline computer network malfunctions lead to widespread delays, and I cosponsored an amendment requiring airports to select from the best qualified contractors when using taxpayer dollars for construction projects. “In addition, I offered an amendment that would require airlines to place a passenger who is delayed for more than three hours onto another air carrier if that would be the quickest way to get the passenger to their destination. This would only apply to delays caused by an event in the airline’s control. It would also require airlines to provide hotel and meal accommodations during lengthy delays. Unfortunately, I was unable to overcome heavy lobbying by the airlines and this amendment was defeated. But my fight for consumer protections will not stop, and I did receive a commitment from committee leadership that they will work with me on future passenger protections.”
04.27.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today after his amendment authorizing funding for air traffic control towers at smaller airports, such as Lewis University Airport in Romeoville, was included in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 that passed the House of Representatives: “My amendment allows airports, such as the one at Lewis University in Romeoville, to apply for grants from the Small Airport Fund to construct air traffic control towers for participation in the Federal Contract Tower program. This ensures that our airspace remains the gold standard for safety by helping small airports currently operating without towers to invest in potentially life-saving infrastructure. “With a convenient location near three major interstate highways in a fast-growing area, the Lewis University Airport, currently home to a top-notch aviation program and more than 100,000 arrivals and departures annually, has the potential to be a great economic engine for the region. I will continue to work with the airport, the Joliet Regional Port District, the Village of Romeoville, Will County, and other local stakeholders to help improve its infrastructure and reach its full potential.” Statement from David Silverman, Chairman of the Joliet Regional Port District Board, which oversees Lewis University Airport: “Congressman Lipinski’s provision that passed the House today is a major step forward in helping Lewis University Airport find the funding we need to construct a much-needed air traffic control tower. We applaud the Congressman for his creative thinking in authoring this amendment and for his long-time advocacy on behalf of the airport and Will County. We are fortunate to have him fighting for our region and we thank him for his commitment to increasing safety at the airport and creating jobs in Will County.”
04.25.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after introducing the Iranian Military and Terror Financing Reporting Act (H.R. 5612), which would require an annual report from the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence describing Iranian expenditures on military and terrorist activities outside the country: “Iran is a regionally de-stabilizing power in the Middle East. According to the most recent report by the State Department, it is the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism. In spite of Iran’s weak economy and U.S.-imposed sanctions in response to their support for terrorism, abuse of human rights, and acquisition and deployment of prohibited weapons, the country continues to support violent groups abroad. “As our diplomatic and military leaders determine how best to respond to Iran’s ongoing destabilization, they should have a detailed accounting of the amounts spent by Iran on specific groups such as Hezbollah, Houthi rebels in Yemen, Hamas, and proxy forces in Iraq and Syria, among elsewhere. This effort is especially important in light of the escalating conflict between U.S. ally Israel and Iran and its backed forces in Syria. “The information that stems from my bill would better enable us to target Iran’s instruments of influence and send a clear message to Iran and our allies that that we do not tolerate their support of terrorism, that we are watching what armed groups they finance, and stand ready to take action to curtail this financial influence.”
04.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2018, which helps turn federal research investments into innovative new products and creates jobs, has passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support. The bill supports the expansion of the successful Innovation Corps program, known as I-Corps, which was created by the National Science Foundation (NSF) in 2011 to teach scientists and engineers how to turn their laboratory research into successful commercial products and services. The centerpiece of the program is the I-Corps Teams course, based on the Lean Launchpad curriculum developed by innovator Steve Blank and widely used throughout Silicon Valley and beyond. Since its inception, over 1,000 teams have participated in I-Corps. Thanks to a bill led by Congressman Lipinski, the NSF has been able to expand the I-Corps model to a number of other agencies, including the National Institutes of Health, NASA, and the Department of Energy. “This bill will help turn more scientists and engineers into entrepreneurs, unleashing American innovation and creating new jobs,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “America’s future depends on job creation through innovation, and I-Corps is a program that has proven to be successful in helping turn federally-funded research into innovative products and services. By increasing the accessibility of I-Corps, this bill will significantly increase the return on our research investment and keep America at the cutting edge of innovation. I want to thank Chairman Smith and Ranking Member Johnson for their leadership in the Science Committee, as well as the lead cosponsor, Mr. Webster of Florida, and Senator Coons, who is leading a companion bill in the Senate.” Lipinski’s bill expands I-Corps to meet several pressing needs. It expands eligibility and helps more people participate in the program. Currently, it is difficult for individuals who are not grantees of the NSF or another agency that participates in I-Corps to access the program. This bill gives recipients of small business grants from any agency the flexibility to pay for a course with their grant funds, and lets private citizens apply and pay out of pocket to participate. The legislation also directs the NSF to establish a new course as part of the I-Corps program to teach scientist-entrepreneurs how to start and grow a company. While the current I-Corps course does a great job of helping determine whether or not an innovation is suitable for commercialization, it offers only limited guidance for what to do after a scientist makes the decision to become an entrepreneur. Skills like how to write a business plan, hire a team, and attract investment are taught in business schools but not in Ph.D. programs. The NSF recognized this need and has already begun a pilot program to test curriculum for this new course. This bill makes sure the new course is fully developed and made available around the country. Finally, Lipinski’s bill requires a Government Accountability Office assessment of the I-Corps program, its first comprehensive, independent evaluation since it was created. Although the program’s success to date speaks for itself, it is important to continuously improve it, develop metrics to measure its performance, and ensure that federal funds are well-spent. This bill has been endorsed by a wide range of stakeholders, including the former NSF program officer who founded the program, Dr. Errol Arkilic, the Stanford professor who developed the curriculum that I-Corps is based on, Steve Blank, and several directors of I-Corps Nodes around the country. The legislation is also endorsed by the Association of American Universities, Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, National Venture Capital Association, Council on Government Relations, and the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities.
04.18.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “My prayers continue to be with the family of the passenger killed as well as those who were injured on Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 yesterday. I look forward to a full Southwest and National Transportation Safety Board review of what occurred and steps that can be taken to help prevent such a tragic event from happening again. “I would like to commend the quick action taken by the brave pilot, a former Navy Aviator, who safely landed the aircraft, as well as the other crew, flight attendants, air traffic control, and emergency personnel that performed their jobs at the highest level to resolve this situation and take care of the injured passengers.”
04.11.2018	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Walter Jones (NC-3) have introduced legislation to honor Purple Heart recipients and other American heroes by giving them access to Department of Defense commissaries and recreation facilities. The Purple Heart and Disabled Veterans Equal Access Act of 2018 would extend access to commissaries and Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) facilities to Purple Heart recipients, all veterans with a service-connected disability, Medal of Honor recipients, former prisoners of war, and veteran caregivers. “The military considers access to these areas an earned benefit and we should all agree that Purple Heart recipients, disabled veterans, and other heroes of our armed forces have done more than enough to earn that access,” said Rep. Lipinski. “These brave men and women and their families deserve our utmost gratitude. It is our duty as a nation to not only say that we appreciate their service but also to enact policies such as this demonstrating that gratitude. I thank Congressman Jones for joining me in introducing this legislation and for all the work he does to honor the men and women in our armed services.” Commissaries are grocery/department stores on military installations that sell food and some household items. MWR facilities offer a range of services on bases including libraries, outdoor recreation, dining, golf courses, and sports and fitness centers. “I have the honor and privilege of representing over 85,000 veterans in Eastern North Carolina, of which over 2,000 have a service-connected disability and many have been awarded a Purple Heart,” said Congressman Jones. “To all those who have bravely and valiantly served this country, often resulting in debilitating injuries, we owe a debt of immense gratitude. But that is not enough. It is time we as a nation double down on efforts to improve the lives of those veterans and their families. I am very proud to introduce the Purple Heart and Disabled Veterans Equal Access Act with Congressman Lipinski, and hope our colleagues will promptly support this legislation.” The Purple Heart is the oldest honor that members of the United States military are given and it is awarded to those who have been wounded or died in combat fighting for the U.S. Since the modern incarnation of the award was established in 1932, approximately 1.8 million members of the military have received the Purple Heart. This legislation has been endorsed by many individuals and organizations, including the Military Order of the Purple Heart, the Association of the U.S. Navy, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, and the Wounded Warrior Project.
03.14.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today after the House passed the STOP School Violence Act of 2018: “Exactly one month after the horrific school shooting in Florida that left 17 people dead, the House today approved a bill that attempts to curb school violence by providing more training for school officials and local law enforcement to recognize and respond to early warning signs of violence, as well as funding to develop anonymous reporting systems for threats and to establish security measures. Unfortunately, this legislation did not include any gun-related provisions. “While I support the bill and the fact that the House is finally beginning to address the issue of violence in our schools, Congress needs to do more. I applaud the recent actions taken by Florida to restrict young people from purchasing certain guns, ban bump stocks, and institute modest gun purchase waiting periods, and I would like to see similar action at the federal level. “I respect the Second Amendment, but I believe in reasonable limits on gun buying and ownership that will keep our communities safe and help prevent further bloodshed. “Let’s start with strengthening and expanding background checks. We must do a better job of preventing people who should not have guns from buying them or possessing them in the first place. “We also need to reduce the lethality of guns. I support limiting the size of ammunition clips so that shooters only have so many bullets in the gun. I support legislation to ban bump stocks and other devices that make guns more dangerous and increase their rate-of-fire to a military-grade automatic weapon. “In addition, we should also increase the penalties for gun trafficking and straw purchases, which allow wrongdoers to evade state gun laws and bring illegal guns into the state. “Across the nation today, our young people stood up and boldly made the statement that it’s time for their leaders to act. This is our future. Let’s not let those voices fall on deaf ears.”
03.12.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is now accepting submissions from all high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C., in June for the exhibition opening. Runners-up will have their artwork displayed prominently in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year. All submissions must include the Student Information and Release Form. Submission Guidelines: All artwork must be two-dimensional Each piece can be no larger than 26” x 26” x 4” including the frame If the winning piece is not framed, the artist will be required to frame the artwork within the sizing guidelines Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds Each entry must be completely original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws Winning artwork will be on display in Washington for one year and will not be available to be returned to the winner during that period Accepted media for artwork are as follows: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, ink, markers Collage Prints: lithographs, silk screen, block prints Mixed Media: use of more than two media such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-Generated Art Photography All entries must be received at one of the Congressman’s district offices, located in Chicago, Oak Lawn, Orland Park, and Lockport, by Friday, April 13, 2018. If you have any questions, please contact the Congressman’s Chicago office at (773) 948-6223, or go online to lipinski.house.gov.
03.12.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced the Expanding Resources to Establish Quiet Zones Act to provide local communities with additional resources to install the safety equipment necessary to create quiet zones, areas where trains do not sound their horns at crossings. These enhanced measures not only improve safety at grade crossings, but also relieve area residents of the irritation of hearing train horns at all hours. “As someone who grew up less than one hundred yards from railroad tracks, I’m very familiar with the hassles rail traffic can bring in the form of blocked crossings, noisy idling trains, and horns that wake people in the middle of the night,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “I promise to continue working to bring more peace and quiet to individuals and families who reside near railroad tracks, while also improving safety. This bill would help do that.” Lipinski’s bill increases the authorized levels of funding for programs that can fund quiet zones by a total of $95 million over the next two fiscal years. It also adds the definition of quiet zones to existing law in order to make it clear that these important improvements are eligible to receive federal funding. “For years, trains came through the center of our town blaring their horns at all hours of the day and night,” said Oak Lawn Mayor Sandra Bury. “Congressman Lipinski recognized that this was a true quality-of-life issue for Oak Lawn’s residents. Now, Oak Lawn enjoys the quiet zone benefits every day and this would not have happened without Congressman Lipinski. We are truly indebted to him and are thankful for this leadership. A quiet zone may seem like a small thing, but I can tell you that in Oak Lawn it has been truly transformative.” “Congressman Lipinski’s determination and ability to bring groups together is a true asset,” stated Chicago Ridge Mayor Charles Tokar. “I want to thank him for his ongoing efforts to bring some relief to area residents in the form of establishing much-needed quiet zones. It is my hope that this legislation will lead to good news for our community and other municipalities across the nation.” “As a community with busy railroad tracks running through it, we are grateful to have someone like Rep. Lipinski looking out for us,” said Lockport Mayor Steven Streit. “The tracks run very close to our Old Canal Days event, which takes place every June. With lots of families walking across or near the tracks, Lipinski recognized potential safety concerns and was pivotal in our negotiations to get the trains to slow down while the event is going on. On behalf of the residents of Lockport, I want to thank the Congressman for all his hard work, and I look forward to one day seeing our community and the surrounding area benefiting from his quiet zones bill.”
03.07.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), joined by Congressman Daniel Webster (FL-11), has introduced the Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2018, supporting the expansion of the successful I-Corps program which helps turn federal research investments into innovative new products and jobs. The Innovation Corps program, known as I-Corps, was created by the National Science Foundation (NSF) in 2011 to teach scientists and engineers how to turn their laboratory research into successful commercial products and services. The centerpiece of the program is the I-Corps Teams course, based on the highly successful Lean Launchpad curriculum developed by innovator Steve Blank and widely used throughout Silicon Valley and beyond. Since its inception, over 1,000 teams have participated in I-Corps. Thanks to a bill led by Congressman Lipinski, NSF has been able to expand the I-Corps model to a number of other agencies, including the National Institutes of Health, NASA, and the Department of Energy. “The federal government invests a lot of money in research and development annually,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I-Corps is a modest investment that leads to a big return on federally-funded research by significantly increasing rates of research commercialization, economic activity, and job creation. Just as the creation of the I-Corps program addressed an unmet need and helped scientist-entrepreneurs bring their ideas closer to market, my bill will fill the last remaining skills gap and empower aspiring business owners to access the private capital they need to be commercially successful. The bill will also ensure that more business-oriented scientists and engineers have access to this high-quality training, and will enlist the Government Accountability Office to ensure that the federal funds expended for the program are well-spent.” “I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan measure with my friend Congressman Daniel Lipinski,” said Rep. Webster. “The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act expands on the time-tested I-Corps program through adding a course for commercialization-ready participants. The course will focus on the essential skills of starting a successful and scalable business. The NSF’s I-Corps program will bridge the divide between the academic world and commercialization sphere, playing a critical role in the efforts to increase innovation for all Americans.” “America is better for having I-Corps,” stated Steve Blank. “It has become the standard for entrepreneurship in the federal government, having trained over 1,000 of our country's best scientists. It’s made turning our government-funded science into companies more efficient. We should do more of I-Corps. We can make it broader and better, reaching more people and teaching more skills. We ought to open the program to innovators and entrepreneurs who have ideas in every part of the country, whether they are in a university or a garage.” I-Corps helps address the lack of funding from the private sector to develop entrepreneurial capacity at institutions of all sizes and types. It also helps strengthen the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Research (SBIR/STTR) programs, shifts institutional culture to better recognize the value of entrepreneurship, and ultimately pays the American taxpayer back many times over in the form of commercialized products that may have otherwise collected dust on a laboratory shelf. “The University of Michigan has sent more scientists to NSF I-Corps than any other institution in the nation,” said Jonathan Fay, Midwest I-Corps Node Director. “We have seen first-hand the transformative impact of the NSF I-Corps program. Scientists and engineers come back from the program with a completely different perspective on their innovation, their research, and how we train the next generation of scientists. They leave the program with the language, skills, and networks to start the transition of their science into impact through startups or partnering with industry. I'm especially excited that we have partnered with Purdue University, the University of Illinois, and the University of Toledo to expand the I-Corps program across the Midwest. The Midwest is home to top research universities with over $18 billion in research expenditures. The I-Corps program is unleashing the societal and economic potential of that work.”
02.23.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week, which is being celebrated this week across the country. He is also an original cosponsor of a resolution supporting the goal of increasing the number of African American women and girls in engineering. The theme of this year’s Engineers Week is “Engineers: Inspiring Wonder.” As one of only 19 engineers in Congress, Lipinski introduced the resolution to recognize the important role engineers play in society and to help inspire more young people, especially young women and under-represented minorities, to choose careers in engineering. “I love this year’s Engineers Week theme because it emphasizes how exciting engineering can be,” said Rep. Lipinski. “From huge buildings and bridges to tiny devices that go in our pockets or inside our bodies, engineering is evident in every area of our lives. This theme also underscores key engineering skills that I think are often overlooked, curiosity and creativity.” National Engineers Week focuses on celebrating how engineers make a difference in our world, increasing public dialogue about the need for more engineers, and bringing engineering to life for children, educators, and parents. Leading up to Engineers Week, Congressman Lipinski hosted an event on Capitol Hill highlighting Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day. The event was organized by DiscoverE, a foundation that promotes engineering outreach and volunteerism, and featured talks by women engineers from many different age and racial/ethnic groups, as well as young women aspiring to careers in engineering.
02.22.2018	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and John Faso (NY-19) have introduced the bipartisan Challenges and Prizes for Climate Act of 2018 to spur innovation in key areas critical to combating climate change. The legislation, which takes advantage of existing federal prize authority, encourages public-private partnerships, pays only for performance, and accelerates technology and market development. “Clean energy prize competitions have the potential to yield major technological advances and transform industries and markets,” said Rep. Lipinski. “A prize that I championed a few years ago has led to a quantum leap in hydrogen fuel cell car refueling technology, and there’s another competition that’s currently in progress that has already identified 23 technologies that can convert carbon dioxide emissions from power plants and industrial facilities into useful products.” “Increased efficiency and continued technological innovation in clean energy will help the U.S. economy grow in the coming decades,” said Rep. Faso. “We should do all we can to incentivize progress and assist the private sector economy in innovating and inspiring technological changes which will reduce the impact of climate change. This legislation is a step in the right direction in terms of incentivizing real progress through public-private partnerships. I am happy to join Rep. Lipinski in introducing this bill.” The legislation would direct the Secretary of Energy to establish a program called “Climate Solutions Challenges,” which will organize prize competitions on five topics, including carbon capture, energy efficiency, energy storage, climate resiliency, and data analytics to better understand climate or weather, or to better inform the public about those topics. Joining Reps. Lipinski and Faso on this important legislation are Climate Solutions Caucus members Reps. Crist, Curbelo, Murphy, and Ros-Lehtinen. In keeping with the bipartisan spirit of the Caucus, the bill has an equal number of Democratic and Republican cosponsors. “America is strongest when our brightest minds compete to generate innovative solutions for the challenges we face like climate change,” said Rep. Charlie Crist (FL-13). “Through public-private partnerships, the Climate Solutions Challenges program would encourage new technologies promoting resiliency and energy efficiency as we work together to tackle the threat our changing climate poses to our global community. By harnessing the tremendous talent and drive of our STEM community, we can build a more sustainable future.” “We applaud the introduction of Rep. Lipinski and Rep. Faso’s bipartisan Challenges and Prizes for Climate Act of 2018,” stated the Friends Committee on National Legislation organization. “Innovative solutions will be a crucial part of mitigating climate change, making our communities more resilient, and being good stewards of God’s Creation. There is a growing need for research, development, and deployment of new renewable energy technologies, and this bill is an important step.” “Creativity and partnerships are critical to addressing our climate challenges,” said Alliance to Save Energy President Kateri Callahan. “Congressmen Lipinski and Faso's proposed Climate Solutions Challenge will use the power of competition to bring forward the most impactful and innovative solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Alliance is particularly pleased that the Congressmen recognize energy efficiency as a key lever for protecting our environment, while also driving energy productivity and prosperity.” “America needs bipartisan approaches to climate change like investing in clean energy technology,” said David Yarnold, President and CEO of the National Audubon Society. “Our changing climate is the biggest threat facing America’s people and birds. We don’t have time to waste, and we can’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good. It’s time to start with meaningful solutions like this legislation.”
02.21.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “This week has brought news that once again the lawless Assad regime has redoubled its assault on civilians and humanitarian targets, such as hospitals in Syria. Even worse, Assad’s attacks continue with the active backing and support of the Russian government, multiplying their harm. “The Syrian government and Russia began new bombardments of the Ghouta suburbs of Damascus on Monday, despite past promises that Ghouta would be a so-called ‘de-escalation zone,’ which would not be targeted for additional attacks. Reports from the region indicate at least 200 civilian deaths and hundreds wounded, many of them women and children. At least 10 hospitals have been disabled in the bombings. “The United States should not leave these actions unanswered. Last spring, the House passed the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act, which I cosponsored. That bill would impose new sanctions on Syrian human rights abusers and facilitators of the Syrian government’s atrocities. It would also authorize the Department of State to provide support to entities that are collecting and preserving evidence that could be used to formally prosecute people who committed war crimes or crimes against humanity in Syria. “It is far past time for the Senate to take up this legislation so we can put it on the President’s desk for his signature. The Syrian government’s heinous war crimes have destroyed the lives of innocent people, undermined America’s security interests, and caused massive displacement of refugees. We cannot reverse these horrific losses, but we can and must take action now so that we can try to prevent further atrocities by Assad’s regime.”
02.16.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Following the horrific school shooting in Florida and the murder of a Chicago Police Officer this week, a number of people have asked ‘what should we do about the availability of guns?’ I respect the 2nd Amendment, but I believe in reasonable limits on gun buying and ownership that will keep our communities safe and help prevent further bloodshed. I have cosponsored and supported legislation to strengthen and expand background checks. We must do a better job of preventing people who should not have guns from buying them or possessing them in the first place. We also need to reduce the lethality of guns. I support limiting the size of ammunition clips so that shooters only have so many bullets in the gun. I helped introduce legislation to ban bump stocks and other devices that make guns more dangerous and increase their rate-of-fire to a military-grade automatic weapon. I believe that there should be strict limitations on the availability of semi-automatic assault weapons. Since there are millions of assault weapons legally owned in America now, I think it would be nearly impossible to outright ban these guns. But it is reasonable that buying such assault weapons should be subject to a more stringent background check. I have cosponsored bills to increase the penalties on gun-trafficking and straw purchases, which can evade Illinois’ strict gun laws and bring illegal guns into the state, or where a permissible person buys guns for someone who would not pass a background check. I opposed concealed carry reciprocity legislation earlier this year, which would have the effect of permitting gun owners who have concealed carry permits from other states, often with limited regulations, to bring them into Illinois. I voted against legislation that gave gun manufacturers liability protections from lawsuits. I have never taken a single dollar from the NRA, and I never will. I support increasing investments in mental health treatment, so that we can get people the treatment and attention they need, and deter those who are ill from pursuing violent action. I also support permitting public health research into the threat that firearms play in the health of our society. I think it is ridiculous that Congress has continuously voted to prohibit the Centers for Disease Control and other health agencies from examining or researching the consequences of gun violence. And since Congress has proven itself feckless with dealing with the problem of gun violence in America, I support the creation of a select committee on gun control. This is by no means a solution, but if it were established, Congress would have a group of members who would meet with the sole and specific purpose of examining the problem of guns in America. “Ultimately, we need the leadership of the House, Senate, and the White House to accept that there is a problem and enable a debate towards solutions. ‘Thoughts and prayers’ are good, but Americans also need Congress to act.”
02.12.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “After reviewing the Trump Budget and Infrastructure Plan, it is clear that the President does not want to make America great for the middle class. The budget guts or completely eliminates critical education, health-related, and economic programs that hard-working individuals and their families rely on, including massive cuts to a wide range of education grant programs. The President also wants to get rid of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and public service loan forgiveness, while putting our health and environment at risk by cutting the Environmental Protection Agency budget by a third. And because of the tax cuts passed in December that largely benefit corporations and the wealthy, the President can’t begin to balance the budget so our deficit would continue to soar. “As the most senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I was eager to get a look at the President’s long-delayed infrastructure plan. Our nation and our region need infrastructure investment. Unfortunately, this plan does only a little to address the need. It would provide much, much less than the promised $1.5 trillion of investment. A few dollars, spread thin, while also enabling private entities to get taxpayer money, won’t fill many potholes, much less make our infrastructure great again. I am hopeful that now that the President has released his plan, Republicans will be willing to join with Democrats in Congress to support a better plan that will really make a difference in fixing our infrastructure.”
01.29.2018	Today, the 48-member bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus announced that it is endorsing a plan which Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped negotiate to provide a pathway to citizenship for DACA recipients and other immigrants brought to this country as children. The plan also helps increase border security and makes some bipartisan changes to immigration policy. In addition, the caucus is supporting a long-term, fiscally-responsible budget agreement that provides more funding for domestic priorities and defense. This endorsement by the Problem Solvers Caucus could help lead the way in the House for bipartisan passage of legislation for Dreamers and an end to the threat of another government shutdown. “Extremists on both sides continue to put politics over people, preferring partisanship over problem solving, resulting in gridlock,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Having worked for five months to develop a bipartisan solution for DACA, I know how difficult it is to overcome this status quo. But this commonsense compromise would finally do what the American people want: give a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers while increasing border security, and produce an agreement on spending. A win for all Americans.” The caucus agreement states that any DACA and border security proposal must include an earned pathway to citizenship, the appropriation of $2.714B in border security improvements, the elimination of the Visa Lottery with an allocation shift of the visas currently being utilized, and the enactment of changes to the family reunification/migration program. The caucus also supports an overall budget caps deal, which includes a long-term, bipartisan budget agreement that eliminates sequestration cuts for at least two years.
01.29.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I have signed on as a cosponsor of legislation introduced by Congressman Mike Doyle (PA) to overturn the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) recent action to eliminate net neutrality rules. We need a free and open internet where control of available content cannot be bought by the highest bidder. That is what the net neutrality rule was about before it was eliminated by Trump’s FCC. I urge the House to take up Rep. Doyle’s Congressional Review Act bill as soon as possible so that we can reinstate the rule.”
01.29.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that his guest for tomorrow night’s State of the Union Address will be Faith Ann Rys. She’s a clinical therapist who specializes in the treatment of high school and college-age women who have been sexually assaulted. She is an expert witness on sexual assault, having testified in over 350 cases. “We must do all we can to fight the scourge of sexual abuse and all harassment,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “The fact that our society is now finally being forced to address this issue is good not just for women but for everyone. Because of Faith Ann’s expertise, experience, and dedication to this issue, I invited her to be my guest and have a platform to speak out about what she believes should be done. Her voice is one that should be heard locally and across the country as we grapple with this issue.” “Sexual assaults happen more frequently than is reported,” said Rys. “People do not report because they fear reprisal, convince themselves that what happened to them was not that bad, question if others will believe them, worry they’ll be told they asked for it, don't want to be labeled a rape victim, blame themselves, and can't bear to relive the pain. Real reform needs to take place in the way all facets of our society handle sexual assaults and harassment, and each and every one of us needs to be part of the reform process.” Lipinski’s legislation to help combat the problem of sexual assault in the military was included as an amendment to the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act and was signed into law. The bill, the SANE Deployment Act, requires each branch of the military to improve the training for and expand the number of professionally trained sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE) to assist in investigations and provide specialized medical treatment and care to victims. Recently, Lipinski cosponsored the ME TOO Congress Act to greatly improve the system for filing and settling harassment claims from congressional employees. “There is so much that we as a society need to do to ensure that all individuals are treated with dignity at all times,” said Lipinski. “I am hopeful that this moment will cause a real significant move toward that goal.”
01.26.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I am very troubled to hear reports that President Trump sought to fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller last year. I think the Special Counsel’s job is critically important for our nation – identifying any influence or collusion from Russia in the 2016 election, informing the public about any abuses, and pursuing justice where appropriate. “We have seen that members of the Trump campaign operation have not taken the Russia investigation seriously, with two guilty pleas for lying and more charges for obstruction of justice, and the President’s reported actions indicate that this attitude rises all the way to the top. “Much like his firing of FBI Director Jim Comey, by seeking to fire Mueller, the President once again creates the impression that he is trying to hide the facts and avoid further investigation. “For the good of our country, we need to allow the Special Counsel to get all the facts and make a full and fair reporting about what happened in the 2016 election and any subsequent cover up. And if Congress needs to act to protect the Special Counsel from political abuse, then we should take steps to do so."
01.24.2018	Last week, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) received an update on a clean energy technology breakthrough that was spurred by the H-Prize, which the Congressman created at the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). The bill Lipinski authored, the H-Prize Act, created a prize competition at the DOE for significant advances in the use of hydrogen as a clean fuel for transportation. Thanks in part to this effort, hydrogen fuel cell-powered cars – whose only emissions are water – are much closer to economic viability. The winner of the H2 Refuel H-Prize competition, SimpleFuel (teamsimplefuel.com), developed a small-scale refueling station for fuel cell vehicles. Unlike large-scale hydrogen refueling stations, which fill up a hydrogen car’s tank as quickly as gasoline vehicles today (5 minutes for 300-400 miles of range), SimpleFuel’s system is designed to be installed easily at a home or business and fills the tank more slowly (10-15 minutes for 100 miles of range), but at a much lower cost. The device generates its own hydrogen using electricity and water and never needs to be refilled. SimpleFuel is a partnership between Massachusetts-based Ivys Energy Solutions and McPhy Energy North America, and Pennsylvania-based PDC Machines. “I introduced the H-Prize Act and fought to get it enacted into law because I believe we need to inspire America’s innovators to lead the development of clean alternative energy,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is great to hear from the winning team how much the H-Prize stimulated their work and the work of other innovators who will help us transition to a clean energy economy led by American entrepreneurs.” “For all of us on the SimpleFuel team, the experience of participating in the H2 Refuel H-Prize competition was energizing and rewarding,” said Chris O’Brien of Ivys Energy Solutions (MA). “Challenging American innovators to make zero-emission hydrogen vehicle fueling accessible with easy installation, optimized performance, and low cost, while using the great resources of the DOE Fuel Cell Technologies Office, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, and the Hydrogen Safety Panel to prove to the industry that this technology is robust, safe, and ready for market, has opened up new possibilities to bring hydrogen cars to customers nationwide. We look forward to delivering on the promise of this technology as we release SimpleFuel as a commercial product this year.” “The SimpleFuel team expresses its deep gratitude to Congressman Lipinski for his vision and leadership in sponsoring the legislation that enabled the H-Prize competition,” said Kareem Afzal of PDC Machines (PA). “The team also expresses its thanks to the entire team from the DOE Fuel Cell Technologies Office for shaping a contest that truly challenged the hydrogen industry to think differently about products that can transform this emerging market. This work inspired our collective team to create a first of its kind hydrogen refueling appliance that will enable rapid and broad adoption of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles nationwide and around the world using technology designed and manufactured in the US. SimpleFuel has already led to the creation of new manufacturing jobs. As we move into commercialization, SimpleFuel is launching a 26,000 square foot production line in Pennsylvania and is expected to create more new manufacturing jobs over the next three years.” Congressman Lipinski is a member of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. He serves as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy as well as the Space Subcommittee.
01.24.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is calling on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to begin restoration work on Bubbly Creek in Chicago as soon as possible. The planned restoration project on the creek, officially known as the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River, has been on hold since 2015, pending completion of remediation work under the supervision of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). According to EPA personnel, the relevant cleanups were completed in October of last year, clearing the way for work on the USACE restoration project to restart. However, as of this January, the restoration project remains on hold. “On October 25th of last year, an oil spill was discovered in Bubbly Creek, causing damage to the environment and wildlife, and prompting a two-week cleanup effort, led by the EPA, at taxpayer expense,” stated Rep. Lipinski in letters to the USACE and EPA. “Because the source of the oil is unknown, it is difficult to know how to prevent similar events in the future. I believe that our federal agencies should be good stewards of Chicago’s unique natural environment, thus I would like to ensure that we are taking every feasible action to restore the creek to an ecologically healthy state. I believe that some of the work planned for Bubbly Creek may help prevent or mitigate future oil spills and other pollution of the creek.” In an effort to restart restoration work and facilitate information sharing between the USACE and EPA, Congressman Lipinski is proposing a meeting in Chicago that brings both organizations to the table for a conversation that will help identify a promising path forward for Bubbly Creek.
01.23.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has introduced a resolution celebrating Catholic Schools Week and honoring the outstanding work of Catholic schools in the Chicago Archdiocese, Joliet Diocese, and all across the nation. Catholic Schools Week, which begins this year on January 28th, has been an annual event since 1974. This year’s theme is “Catholic Schools: Learn. Serve. Lead. Succeed.” “I greatly appreciate all I learned during my twelve years of Catholic education,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Catholic schools instill a broad, values-added education. They are committed to community service, producing graduates who are devoted to being leaders who help others. My own desire to teach and then go into public service was fostered by dedicated teachers, administrators, and clergy throughout my years at St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep in Chicago.” Catholic schools serve the nation by providing a diverse student population from all socioeconomic backgrounds a strong academic foundation, including over 41 percent of students from racial and ethnic minority backgrounds and about 20 percent from non-Catholic families. It is estimated that Catholic schools save local taxpayers over $1 billion annually by lowering the number of students in overburdened public schools. Schools typically observe the annual celebration week with Masses, open houses, and other activities for students, families, parishioners, and community members. During the week, Congressman Lipinski will visit several schools in the district, including St. Christina, St. Gerald, St. Catherine, and St. Daniel.
01.23.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded three grants totaling about $2 million to a research consortium consisting of The Learning Partnership – based in Western Springs, Northwestern University, James Madison University, and Chicago Public Schools (CPS). The funds will be used to adapt a Geographic Information System (GIS)-based program developed for high school students at James Madison University in Virginia for CPS high school students. The program focuses on the development of spatial thinking skills which – according to the researchers – are strongly predictive of achievement, persistence, and attainment in the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields. The program will integrate GIS software and geospatial problem solving into existing Career & Technical Education classes in entrepreneurship, pre-engineering, law and public safety, construction and architecture, health science, and agricultural sciences. Students in these classes will earn dual enrollment credit from their high school and from the City Colleges of Chicago. In addition to being a useful skill across the STEM fields, proficiency in GIS software can be a great path to a well-paying job without having to complete a college degree. “Thanks again to The Learning Partnership and Northwestern for the amazing work they do in the district and across the region,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will provide a much-needed boost to hard-working students looking for a high-quality education that will prepare them well for their career path.” “What’s really exciting about this project is that we’ll be able to take a program that’s been very successful in Virginia and develop strategies for bringing it to Chicago,” said Dr. Steven McGee, founder of The Learning Partnership. “Teachers will be able to support Chicago students in developing GIS skills, which is one of the fastest growing career areas. What we learn from this project can be applied across a variety of urban settings to help students earn college credit and develop skills that will be immediately applicable.” Last year, the Congressman announced that The Learning Partnership, as part of a local educational partnership, had received a separate grant of over $1 million for the purpose of ensuring that all CPS students have access to inclusive, high-quality, introductory computer science education in high school.
01.20.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Washington has failed the American people yet again. We must break the status quo of bickering and gridlock. I’m working with the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus to try to come up with a way to end the shutdown, while also continuing to work on our plan to fix DACA. It would be helpful if everyone put less time into figuring out new ways to brand a crisis to pin it on the other side and more time into actually working on a solution. Time to get back to work and rediscover compromise. Our constituents and the nation are counting on us.”
01.16.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the National Science Foundation's Scholarships in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) program has awarded a grant of over $961,000 to Lewis University in Romeoville. The funds will support the university’s Biology Transitions program, which provides support to low-income students with demonstrated financial need and academic promise to succeed in STEM disciplines at the school. The project will fund 28 scholarships over 5 years for transfer students who are pursuing bachelor's degrees in biological sciences. The program will expose students to a learning model that emphasizes critical thinking and problem solving, while providing support to transfer students as they transition to a 4-year institution from community college. “This grant will be a great help as Lewis advances its commitment to training students for careers in STEM fields,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As a former teacher and one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, I believe strongly that improving STEM education for everyone is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world, and that our young people receive an education that will allow them to succeed both today and in the future.” Lewis University's Biology Transitions program will increase the number of underrepresented, economically disadvantaged students who complete 4-year degrees and enter the STEM workforce directly or after completing a graduate program, helping to advance scientific knowledge and provide needed, qualified STEM professionals. In addition to scholarships, the program will incorporate intensive mentoring, academic support, and undergraduate research opportunities to ensure that at least 80% of Biology Transitions participants will persist to graduation. Professional guidance in the internship, graduate, and professional school application processes will advance students toward STEM professions and increase the number of graduating scholars who continue in a STEM field through employment or graduate school. In the House of Representatives, Congressman Lipinski serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and is co-chair of the Congressional STEM Education Caucus. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, he wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation.
01.13.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Earlier today, I participated in a Problem Solvers Caucus conference call to learn more about the bipartisan immigration compromise that Senators Dick Durbin, Lindsey Graham, and four others have negotiated. The proposal addresses the areas that were agreed upon to be the basis of bipartisan talks during a White House meeting this past Tuesday. As described on the call, the Senators’ proposal sounds like a commonsense, compromise agreement that will provide a path to citizenship for immigrants brought to this country as children, while also helping to secure the border and making other sensible changes to immigration policy. “After spending four months in a ten-member bipartisan working group developing a fix for DACA, I understand the difficulties of finding a compromise on this issue that can pass both the House and Senate, and be signed by the President. Many of the pieces of the Senate plan are similar to the plan that our working group has been putting together. “I want to thank my colleagues in the Senate for their willingness to take on this challenge, and I especially want to thank Senator Durbin, author of the Dream Act, for putting in the hard work to develop a compromise that can get enacted into law. I look forward to seeing all the details of this plan, and then hopefully helping to lead Congress to a solution that is good not only for these immigrants but for our whole country.”
01.13.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has nominated 18 young men and women from the Third Congressional District for admission to the U.S. Service Academies. The nominees were honored by Lipinski for their achievement at a ceremony today at Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 in Oak Lawn. “One of the duties of this office that I cherish the most is the honor to nominate young men and women for our country’s prestigious service academies,” Rep. Lipinski told the nominees. “Every year, applications come into my office from the district’s best and brightest students who have demonstrated the ability to lead and have the heart and courage to serve our nation. Thank you for your willingness to serve others. With you as our future leaders, I know our nation will be in good hands.” The nominees are: U.S. Air Force Academy: Giselle Andrade, of Chicago, Morton West HS; Nicholas Baumel, of Western Springs, Nazareth Academy; Ryan Celestino, of Crest Hill, Lockport Township HS; Jake Cooley, of Homer Glen, Illinois Math and Science Academy; Kurt Hillebrand, of Romeoville; James Miranda Jr., of Indian Head Park, Randolph Macon Academy; Nathan Ocampo, of Brookfield, Lyons Township HS; Alexander Pup, of Chicago, Fenwick HS U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Katherine Sanchez, of Chicago, Marist HS U.S. Military Academy (West Point): Mary Foley, of Orland Park, Carl Sandburg HS; Justin Hobart, of Palos Heights, Amos Alonzo Stagg HS; Joseph Imburgia, of Lockport, Lockport Township HS; Evan Lee, of Romeoville, Romeoville HS; Luis Martinez, of Chicago, Phoenix Military Academy; Joseph McGuire, of Chicago, St. Ignatius College Prep HS U.S. Naval Academy: Jacquelyn Doyle, of Western Springs, Fenwick HS; William Flowers, of Orland Hills, Victor J. Andrew HS; Jake Karczewski, of Chicago, Montini Catholic HS The admissions department for each of the service academies makes the final decision on acceptance.
01.12.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I have been working hard alongside many of my colleagues in Congress to develop an agreement to extend DACA protections and the President’s remarks are extremely counter-productive in achieving that. But the impact doesn't end there. Whoever sits in the office of President of the United States has a specially high responsibility to respect and promote the dignity of each and every individual no matter who they are or where they come from. This is not just an American value, but a human value. President Trump needs to start living up to this responsibility.”
01.11.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “As Congress works to reauthorize vital foreign intelligence programs, it is always important that we make sure we are protecting vital civil liberties. I supported S. 139 today because it makes some important improvements to current intelligence programs which protect the privacy of Americans and expand oversight, while ensuring that the government has the necessary tools to protect the public. “These improvements include requiring the FBI to get a court order before investigators are allowed to view communications in the context of criminal investigations. Currently the FBI is not required to get a court order in any context. The bill also requires intelligence agencies to notify Congress if they expand the surveillance program and gives Congress the ability to stop the expansion before it is implemented; currently Congress is not given that opportunity. In addition, the bill requires Congress to reexamine these intelligence programs again in six years, which is necessary to adjust to new and evolving technology. “This bill represents significant progress over the status quo. That is why, along with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, and the Intelligence Committee Ranking Democrat Adam Schiff, I supported this bill. I will continue to work to make sure that we protect civil liberties while keeping our country safe.”
01.04.2018	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I strongly oppose the Trump Administration’s new proposal to open nearly all U.S. federal waters and coastlines to oil and gas drilling. I support energy development at carefully selected sites where environmental concerns and the needs of regional economies have been taken into account. That is how we have managed our oil and gas leasing program for years and the practice we should continue. The Administration’s latest plan throws caution to the wind and threatens not only fragile marine environments, but also fisheries, tourism, and overall quality of life. “This decision could also lead to national security and military operational concerns, especially along Florida’s Gulf Coast, where the Pentagon says it needs a moratorium on drilling to stay in place until at least 2022 for training purposes. This is yet another reckless move by a President driven to exploit our valuable national resources for short-term gain by a few companies. I will work to reverse this irresponsible decision.”
12.20.2017	Following Monday’s derailment of the Amtrak Cascades train, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement: “My prayers continue to be with the victims of the Amtrak Cascades train crash and their families. While it is too early to determine the exact cause of the derailment, we have learned that the train was travelling in excess of the speed limit on the section of track where the incident occurred. “As a member of the Subcommittee on Rail, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I have continuously worked to ensure the safety of our rail system, especially rail passengers. “Positive Train Control (PTC) is a lifesaving technology that can automatically slow and stop trains before accidents occur in certain situations, such as when a train is going too fast. According to the Washington State Department of Transportation, PTC is not yet operational on the Port Defiance Bypass corridor and will not be until Spring of 2018. “A problem for passenger rail agencies is that PTC is expensive and they struggle to find the money to pay for it. Locally, Metra estimates that PTC implementation will cost $350 to $400 million and will add $15 to $20 million a year to operating costs. “During consideration of the comprehensive transportation bill known as the FAST Act, I authored a provision which created a $199 million grant program for the installation of PTC on commuter railroads across the country. Earlier this year, I was able to help Metra obtain $20 million from this program. In the wake of this tragedy, I am continuing my push to provide more federal funding to passenger rail agencies for this critical safety technology. “I am hopeful that Congress will finally move forward in January with a long-awaited infrastructure bill and we can include funding that will speed the deployment of PTC and make passenger rail safer.”
12.19.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I voted against the Republican tax bill today because it prioritizes corporations and the wealthy over the middle class, sunsets individual tax cuts while making corporate cuts permanent, punishes local taxpayers by capping deductions for property and income taxes, fails to fix the trust fund that pays for roads and public transit, and adds more to a federal debt that is already out of control. I have been speaking for years with colleagues from both sides of the aisle about how important it is for the future of the middle class that we pass transformative tax reform. Unfortunately, this bill fails the middle class badly. “Corporations will see the top corporate income tax rate fall from 35% to 21%, with only a limited portion of the cut offset through closing corporate tax breaks. Furthermore, most of the benefits for corporations are permanent, while everyone else will see what little help they get expire. As that expiration date approaches, middle-class families will have their ability to pay their bills or provide a better life for their loved ones yet again become a political bargaining chip. “The cap on the amount of local property and income taxes that can be deducted from federal taxes will also hurt many families in our area. In addition, Republicans appear to have added a last-minute tax break for millionaire real estate investors into the legislation. Since the final version of this bill was rushed for a vote, there are bound to be even more loopholes or mistakes added to our tax code. “Finally, Republicans said all along that their tax plan would not add to our debt, which is $20 trillion and rising. They promised economic growth would pay for the tax cuts. But every analysis done on this bill shows that it will add over $1 trillion more, plus interest, to our debt over 10 years. This is not something we should pass on to the next generation. “With the middle class continuing to struggle even as the stock market soars, Republicans claimed this bill would prioritize middle-class Americans and give them a big boost. But while this bill spends a lot of money and may further fuel the stock market, it is another example of how Washington fails the middle class and leaves them behind.”
12.18.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “This week as Congress works on legislation to fund the government, I am working with my colleagues to include a bipartisan compromise developed by the Problem Solvers Caucus that would lower healthcare costs, and potentially include another Problem Solvers plan that would protect DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) recipients and increase border security. I have been deeply involved in developing both of these commonsense compromises through negotiations in the caucus, which consists of 24 Democrats and 24 Republicans. “In early August, the Problem Solvers Caucus released a plan that would lower the cost of premiums for health insurance plans in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) by guaranteeing cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments, adding a reinsurance fund, and making other changes. In October, President Trump officially announced he was going to stop the CSR payments, adding about 20% to the increase in premiums for ACA benchmark plans in 2018. “The Problem Solvers plan would turn this around for 2019 and the resinsurance fund would mean an additional 10% decrease in premiums. Overall, the Problem Solvers plan would bring down costs, stabilize ACA markets, and help small businesses. This plan and a similar one are being discussed for possible inclusion in the funding bill this week, and I am hopeful we will be able to include it. “The President announced in September that in six months he would be ending DACA, which provides temporary protection from removal – as well as work authorization – to immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. After House Democratic Leader Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Schumer announced later that month that they had made a deal with the President to protect DACA recipients in exchange for increased border security – not including a wall – the Problem Solvers Caucus began working on legislation that would implement that agreement. “Most Americans agree that these immigrants should be given a pathway to citizenship and more should be done to protect our border. I am on the task force negotiating that agreement and we are close to having legislative language ready for approval by the Problem Solvers Caucus. I am hopeful that this can be wrapped up in the coming days and be included in the funding bill later this week. “Passage of both of these commonsense, bipartisan agreements would be a break from business as usual in Washington and good for our nation.”
12.12.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced the winners of the 2017 Senior Citizen of the Year Award during a special program yesterday in Hickory Hills. The winners were chosen based on their contributions to their communities in the Third Congressional District. “These individuals demonstrate on a daily basis the outstanding spirit and commitment that exists in all of our communities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am honored to recognize these seniors who have selflessly donated their time and energy to causes and pursuits that teach all of us the value of service.” The 2017 Senior Citizen of the Year Award winners are: Phyllis Adams, Palos Park; Art Arellano, Romeoville; Adrian Mary Charnick, Riverside; Dr. Vernon Crawley, Orland Park; John Devona, Western Springs; Raymond Hodson, Justice; Jerry Hoenig, Palos Hills; Edward McLaughlin, Chicago; Patricia Pastore, Lockport; Toni Piccirillo, Chicago; Grace Pluhar, Oak Lawn; Russell Pluhar, Oak Lawn; and Cynthia Salvino of Cicero. To be eligible for this award, a senior must be nominated by the leader of an organization or an official from their community. Only a select few are chosen to receive this honor.
12.12.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is leading a bipartisan group of 42 colleagues in opposing a provision in the House version of the tax bill that would result in a significant tax increase on graduate students. The current bill would eliminate the exclusion of “qualified tuition reductions” from taxable income. The effect would be to tax the value of tuition waivers that graduate students receive in exchange for serving as teaching or research assistants during their course of study. Tuition waivers are money that students never see, and by including it in their taxable income, some could see their tax bills double or worse. “The United States is one of the most innovative countries in the world thanks in no small part to our top-notch graduate education system,” said Rep. Lipinski in a letter to House and Senate Leaders. “American graduate students go on to become top scientists, engineers, researchers, and leaders that generate many of the innovations that drive our economy. The effect of this bill would be to make graduate school unaffordable for thousands of students, lowering the research output of our universities and starving us of our next generation of professors and scientists.” The value of a tuition waiver can be significant. For example, graduate school tuition at Duke University is typically over $50,000 per year. Adding this amount to a student’s taxable income would have serious tax consequences. With 55% of graduate students nationwide earning an adjusted gross income of $20,000 or less, and 87% earning $50,000 or less, they cannot afford a major increase in their tax burden.
12.07.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is proud to announce that Lyons Township High School Senior Scott Turro is the Third District’s winner of this year’s Congressional App Challenge. The Countryside resident’s app, “Water Ring Game,” cleverly reproduces a classic childhood toy in the form of a mobile device app. “The app submissions we received varied significantly, and all were great demonstrations of the students’ creativity and skill,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Scott’s app stood out for the sophistication of the code and the STEM skills he demonstrated. I want to congratulate him and thank his family and his teacher, Natalie Carlson, for their support. All of the students who submitted apps to this year’s competition did great work.” Scott worked hard to program realistic movements into the rings, mimicking how plastic rings move through water and bounce off walls. To do this, he developed algorithms that drew on his physics and math skills. The result is a realistic reproduction that even responds to the user shaking the phone. A video featuring Scott’s app will be played throughout the year on a screen in the U.S. Capitol, and he will receive credits for free web hosting services and an invitation to a special coding-related event next year in Washington, D.C. A panel of experts, including John McDonnell from Infogix, Inc., Catherine Greenspon from Project Infinite Green, and Steven McGee from The Learning Partnership, judged the apps. “I was very impressed with the quality of the submissions,” said McGee. “Each of the students identified an interesting problem to address and their apps represented a great first step at providing solutions.” The runners-up are Amos Alonzo Stagg High School student Monica Para, who entered an app called “EsteemBeam,” and Whitney Young Magnet School student Gabriel Laniewski, who entered an app called “Locker Buddy.” The Congressional App Challenge began in 2015 as a way to inspire students from every corner of the country to explore STEM, coding, and computer science through hands-on practice.
12.06.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today, Rep. Al Green offered a Resolution of Impeachment of the President. I joined with House Democratic leadership and 2/3rds of the House Democratic Caucus in voting to table the resolution. “Moving forward with ‎this resolution at this time would have undermined the investigations of the Trump Administration currently taking place, and could prevent a complete account of critical information the investigations already have or may uncover. “Like many, I am concerned about the legality of some of the President’s actions and have found many of his comments offensive, but now is not the time to consider articles of impeachment.”
12.06.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Instead of acting on commonsense bills that actually help make us safer, Republican leadership is bringing the dangerous Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017 (H.R. 38) to the House floor for a vote. If signed into law, this bill would undermine the firearms safety, training, and licensing requirements of Illinois. I promise to stand with law enforcement personnel from across the state and country in opposition to this bill.”
12.05.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “While the scourge of gun violence continues to plague our nation, there are numerous commonsense measures that we could implement to combat this violence. We should all agree that we want to keep firearms out of the hands of people who are not legally allowed to purchase them. That is why I am joining colleagues from both sides of the aisle in cosponsoring the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) Denial Notification Act (H.R. 4471). This bill would create a system to alert state and local law enforcement when an individual legally prohibited from purchasing a gun attempts to buy one. “We trust the police in our communities to help keep us safe. We should all be able to get behind legislation that lets them know when felons, domestic abusers, and the mentally ill are prevented by the National Instant Criminal Background Check System from purchasing a gun. We need to give law enforcement the tools they need to intervene before a dangerous person acquires a weapon and commits a violent crime. “In order to build bipartisan support for this bill, the authors – Reps. Quigley (D-IL) and Meehan (R-PA) – are requiring Democrats who want to co-sponsor the legislation to bring a Republican co-sponsor onboard. I reached out across the aisle to my colleagues Reps. Lance (NJ) and Fitzpatrick (PA) to urge them to cosponsor this bill. They subsequently signed on to the legislation. I will continue to work to garner additional support so that we can finally start getting some commonsense legislation passed to curb gun violence. “Other bills I’m supporting would establish a committee on gun violence prevention (H.Res. 367), eliminate policy prohibiting the Health and Human Services department from researching causes of gun violence (H.R. 1478, Gun Violence Research Act), make firearms trafficking a federal crime and impose stronger penalties on straw purchasers of guns (H.R. 1475, Gun Trafficking Prevention Act), ban bump stocks and similar devices (H.R. 3947, Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act), and reauthorize and strengthen the criminal background check system and subject gun show, internet, and classified ad sales to the background check system (H.R. 4240, Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act). “I understand these changes are not going to solve all our problems related to this life-and-death issue, but these necessary steps are long overdue. After what we have witnessed as a nation in recent years, we can’t afford to just keep doing nothing.”
12.04.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), a leader on federal driverless vehicle policy, is announcing that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has released a report that he requested examining the readiness of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to regulate and oversee the deployment of connected and automated vehicles. The report finds that rapidly advancing technology may pose challenges to the DOT as they work to ensure vehicle safety, adapt to changing infrastructure needs, and protect consumers’ data. “Autonomous vehicle technology is transforming our roads, making them safer and more efficient,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As this technology evolves and improvements continue, the federal government must do all it can to ensure safety, while also enabling innovators to continue developing and deploying these vehicles. This means we will need to revisit existing standards and processes, and in order to do that, we must have the DOT nimble enough to meet the demands of this rapidly changing industry. “I look forward to continuing to collaborate with the hardworking professionals at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to provide them with the resources they need to adequately respond to a changing mobility paradigm,” continued Lipinski. “This important GAO report, which I requested in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, will help guide Congress and the DOT’s policymaking efforts as we work to maintain U.S. leadership on autonomous vehicles.” During consideration of the Fiscal Year 2018 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development (THUD) appropriations bill, Lipinski successfully included an amendment that will provide the NHTSA with an additional $9 million for salaries and expenses to expand its workforce, define new testing protocols, and partner with industry. “The GAO found that the DOT competes with high-paying tech firms to acquire new talent,” stated Lipinski. “The language I included in the THUD bill is intended to make the agency more competitive in recruiting a talented workforce to meet future needs. In this rapidly changing industry, our government can’t afford to fall behind bold innovation.”
12.04.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with Senator Dick Durbin, Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-5), officials from the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District (MWRD) of Greater Chicago, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and other area organizations today to officially announce the completion of McCook Reservoir Stage 1, a 3.5 billion gallon section of the McCook Reservoir, part of the MWRD’s Tunnel and Reservoir Plan (TARP). Also known as Deep Tunnel, this project will prevent flooded basements and will also reduce pollution in Lake Michigan. Local communities with flooding problems, such as Lyons and Bedford Park, will especially benefit. “As the senior Illinois Representative on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I’m proud to have worked with my colleagues to provide the funding to make this possible, and I thank the MWRD and Army Corps of Engineers for their hard work,” said Rep. Lipinski. “For decades, flooding and combined sewer overflows were nearly guaranteed during heavy rain storms. Lack of an effective flood control system resulted in extensive property damage as basements and streets flooded. Completion of this project is estimated to provide $114 million per year in flood reduction benefits and will especially help residents of communities in the southwestern suburbs which repeatedly suffer from flooded basements.” As the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee was drafting the 2016 Water Resources Development Act, which was signed into law last year, Congressman Lipinski secured a provision that prioritized funding and accelerated the construction timeline for the next critical flood control project, McCook Reservoir Stage II. When that project is completed, the reservoir will have a total storage capacity of 10 billion gallons and deliver an additional $143 million per year in flood reduction benefits. TARP is one of the country’s largest public works projects for flood control and pollution. It covers a 375-square-mile area that includes Chicago and 51 suburbs that rely on a combined collection system. It has already led to significantly improved water quality in the area, boosting tourism and quality of life.
11.29.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Congress is a place where people come to make a positive and meaningful difference in the world. Members and staff alike are largely driven by a commitment to public service. But unfortunately there are some who have abused their power and office, afflicting others with discrimination, harassment, and intimidation. “For too long the system has turned a blind eye to these offenses, and has been set up to protect those who abuse others. This must change. Congress must stop being a follower in maintaining ethical conduct and must take the necessary steps to promote a safe, transparent, and accountable workplace. “I am pleased that the House has taken a first step in changing our workplace for the better. Today, I helped pass H. Res 630, which requires all Members and employees of the House to complete anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training every year. “Earlier this month, I made sure that I led by example and completed this training along with all of my Washington staff. My district staff is scheduled to complete the training in early December. While this is good start, we must do more to fight sexual harassment in the halls of Congress. “Victims of harassment of all forms should be empowered to bring the mistreatment to light and have cases adequately adjudicated. Perpetrators of harassment must not be let off the hook through secret processes that are never revealed to the general public. This only discourages victims and facilitates the continued harassment of others by those guilty of perpetrating such behavior. “I am also backing other legislation, including the ME TOO Congress Act, H.R. 4396, that improves the investigation and dispute resolution process under the Congressional Accountability Act, including disputes regarding sexual harassment. Another bill I’ve cosponsored would extend workplace protections to congressional interns. “The ME TOO Congress Act would make counseling and mediation optional before people can proceed with filing a complaint. Currently, counseling and mediation are mandatory before civil action can be taken, requiring up to 90 days before a formal complaint can be filed with the Office of Compliance or any civil action can proceed in federal District Court. “Other proposed changes include allowing individuals involved in anonymous complaints access to Victims’ Counsel, transferring investigative and subpoena authority to the Office of Compliance, setting up optional Victims’ Counsel programs for complainants, prohibiting nondisclosure agreements as a condition of initiating a complaint, and requiring employing offices to give complainants a paid leave of absence or allow them to work from a different location. “The bill also sets up an electronic reporting system for complaints, establishes deadlines for completion of hearings (180 days after complaint filing), makes legislators personally liable for settlement payments if he or she settles a claim as the harasser, and requires annual publication of complaints that result in settlements to include the name of the employing office and settlement amount. “We must do all we can to fight the scourge of sexual harassment and all harassment in our society, and we should start within Congress. Sexual harassment is especially harmful to women and discourages them from wanting to serve in all professions in the halls of Congress. Passage of these bills would be a good start to turning that around, but more work needs to be done to change attitudes to ensure that everyone is welcomed and treated with dignity. “We must create a workplace environment where everyone feels safe, and must ensure that any actions inconsistent with our values are met with consequences, no matter who the offender is.”
11.28.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I am joining my colleagues to formally ask the FCC to delay consideration of its net neutrality rollback and remove it from the December agenda. For our innovation economy to thrive, we need a fair and open internet. That means internet service providers should not be allowed to block or throttle content. I will continue to work with my peers and interested stakeholders on other actions to maintain an open internet.”
11.16.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) delivered the following remarks on the House floor last night during debate on H.R. 1, the Republican tax bill: “A constant refrain I hear from my constituents is, ‘Stop raising my taxes!’ While federal taxes have not been going up on the middle class, other taxes have hit them hard and their take-home pay continues to suffer. Clearly the middle class needs help, and real tax reform could help accomplish that. It is far past time that we reform the tax code by making it simpler, closing loopholes, and lowering rates. However, the current Republican-led tax bill is not the answer for the middle class. “It didn’t have to be this way. Throughout the year, I have heard from Republican lawmakers and from the White House about the benefits of creating a bipartisan tax reform plan. As policy co-chair of the Blue Dog Coalition representing moderate Democrats, I coordinated the Coalition’s creation of key principles needed for a permanent, bipartisan tax reform bill. Our reform principles called for the following: 1. Tax reform must be passed through an open, bipartisan process and regular order. 2. Tax reform must be credibly revenue neutral and should not use unrealistic economic-growth projections to offset the costs of tax reform or tax relief. 3. American companies need a more competitive corporate tax rate and structure in order to maintain their ability to compete globally, and Congress must also account for the needs of small businesses when it comes to setting tax rates. 4. Most importantly, the middle class must be the priority for tax relief. 5. Congress should also use tax reform to address the funding challenges for the Highway Trust Fund. “Taken together, I think most people would say this is a good set of principles. But disappointingly, the GOP tax bill fails to meet these criteria. “First, this bill is not bipartisan. The Blue Dogs met with the Treasury Secretary and the Director of the National Economic Council, as well as the Committee Chairman. We were told that they wanted this to be a bipartisan bill, but the bill was passed in committee less than a week after it was introduced and less than a day after final changes were made by the chairman. The committee voted down every Democratic amendment on a party line vote, and now, one week later, this bill is being brought to the floor with no amendments allowed. This is not bipartisan, and it’s tough to argue this is an open process of regular order. “But what about the contents of the bill? “First, it is not revenue neutral. We were told that this bill would be revenue neutral, using dynamic scoring when considering additional revenue that will be raised from increased economic growth because of the tax cuts. Some dismiss dynamic scoring out of hand, but I believe that it can be legitimate. But as we are about to vote on the bill, even the idea of having an official dynamic score of this bill before voting on it seems to have disappeared. “What we do know is that the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation says it will add nearly $1.5 trillion to our debt, which is currently $20 trillion and growing. The one rough dynamic score that has been produced by the right-leaning Tax Foundation shows that this bill, as originally introduced, would still add over $1 trillion to our debt. This new debt would not even be used to put the needs of middle-class Americans first. “The bulk of the benefits from the bill favor businesses and corporations rather than individual taxpayers. The Tax Policy Center estimates that families would only get the benefit of about one-third of the tax cuts offered by the bill, with corporations and other businesses receiving twice as much. This is because of the unbalanced way in which business tax rates are lowered, with relatively few cuts to corporate deductions. “The bill also eliminates numerous deductions that middle-class Americans use to make ends meet as they deal with growing expenses for healthcare, education, and childcare. Of course, true tax reform can alter some of these provisions in order to simplify the tax code, but we must make sure that at the end of the day, middle-class families’ pocketbooks are not harmed by the changes we make. “While many tout that this bill doubles the standard deduction, it is important to understand that it also eliminates personal exemptions. This means that families with children or other dependents may be worse off. “There are other examples of deductions lost that will negatively impact middle-class families. One is the medical expense deduction, which means that families with very high expenses, such as for long-term care or for extraordinary illnesses, will face higher tax bills. The bill also makes student loan borrowers pay new taxes on the loan interest they pay. “One particularly contentious part of this bill is that it severely curtails the deduction individual taxpayers take for state and local taxes paid. Supporters of this idea claim that this deduction is an unfair subsidy from the federal government to high tax cities and states. My own state of Illinois, where taxpayers will get hit hard, already gets back only about 79 cents from the federal government for every dollar we contribute in taxes. Limiting the state and local tax deduction means this discrepancy will only grow. “Another particularly troubling aspect of this bill is that while it adds some new incentives to make it easier to raise children and support families, these incentives expire after five years. Meanwhile, provisions that primarily benefit high-income taxpayers and corporations are made permanent. “When analyzed as a whole, the non-partisan Tax Policy Center predicts that any tax relief some middle-class families might receive from this bill will disappear over time. Yet families in the top 1% and even in the top 0.1% will see not only immediate relief, but even larger returns in the long run. “Finally, this bill does nothing to address a major tax issue our nation faces, the fact that the Highway Trust Fund that pays for federal road and transit projects is taking more and more money every year out of general revenue. Now is the time to fix this problem by instituting new user fees that go into the trust fund. This would not only mean billions of dollars will no longer be taken out of income tax revenue to pay for roads, but it will also make it possible to finally start that infrastructure program that the President has been promising and America so desperately needs. “Once again, the House is choosing to pursue a needlessly partisan, closed process for major legislation with wide-ranging impacts and enormous price tags. There is room for bipartisan compromise on tax reform that benefits middle-class families and small businesses, while helping our companies compete on the global stage. This current tax bill is not it. I urge my colleagues to change course and pursue truly bipartisan reform so that we do well by the American families and businesses that need Congress to act on this critical issue.”
11.08.2017	This month, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting and three Senior Fairs in the Third Congressional District. At the Town Hall Meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions about federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s offices will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. The Senior Fairs will give district residents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services for seniors. “I encourage residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting and Senior Fairs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative in Washington and someone who works to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is important that I hear from you. In addition, these events are great opportunities for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my offices provide.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming events are as follows: Town Hall Meeting Thursday, November 16 6:00 – 7:30 p.m. Everest Academy 11550 Bell Road, Lemont Congressional staff will be available starting at 5:00 p.m. for assistance with federal agencies Senior Fairs Monday, November 13 10:00 a.m. – noon Operating Engineers Local 150 6200 Joliet Road, Countryside Monday, November 20 10:00 a.m. – noon The Bridgeport Art Center 1200 West 35th Street, Chicago Monday, November 27 10:00 a.m. – noon Johnson-Phelps VFW Post #5220 9514 South 52nd Avenue, Oak Lawn For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov or call his Chicago office at 773-948-6223.
11.08.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Since the 1989 Romanian revolution, which ended communist authoritarian rule, Romania has become a steadfast ally of the United States. Joining NATO in 2004, Romania is a true security partner, one of the largest contributors to the fight in Afghanistan, has welcomed U.S forces to be stationed along the Black Sea, and hosts NATO’s new multinational brigade. “Despite this strong support for the United States and Europe’s defense, Romania is one of the few remaining democratic allies not already in the Visa Waiver Program and I believe that should change. Including Romania in the Visa Waiver Program would increase security cooperation, enhance trade and economic relations, and increase mutual tourism. “The program’s security standards include sharing security-related information with the United States and the timely reporting of lost or stolen passports. Participant countries are also required to maintain enhanced counterterrorism, law enforcement, border control, and document security standards. Romania has shown their commitment to the United States and NATO. We should demonstrate our commitment to the bilateral relationship by including Romania in the Visa Waiver Program.”
11.03.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Yesterday, House Republicans released their tax reform legislative proposal. There is a lot to their bill, and I’m still in the process of assessing what is included, as well as its ramifications for my constituents, the State of Illinois, and our national economy. As I noted in an op-ed I released this week, it will be important for me to see how this tax reform bill will affect the middle class, both in my district and across the country. “That said, on my initial review, there are some worrisome changes and concepts in this bill. The bill would eliminate many deductions and credits that directly affect middle-class families’ pocketbooks, including the deductions for medical expenses and student loan interest, the employer deduction for workers’ public transit benefits, and the adoption tax credit. It would also replace the state and local tax deduction with a limited local property tax deduction. While we must consider any tax bill as a whole, changes like these rightly worry American families. The overall bill must promote economic security and pursuit of the American Dream for the middle class. “I am also concerned that the wealthy could be getting a disproportionate benefit from this tax bill. For example, the eventual elimination of the estate tax, which hits a very, very small number of Americans, will add tens of billions of dollars of debt. I’m eagerly awaiting an independent study of how the proposal changes the distribution of the tax burden among various income levels, as well as between families and corporations. “There is some positive movement in terms of providing tax relief for small businesses in the plan, although the proposal is fairly complex and it will take some time for analysis to determine its consequences. I agree that we need to help small businesses be more competitive in order to hire and invest more, but we shouldn’t be picking winners and losers or creating a new, more complicated tax code. “I regret that Republican leadership has not yet used tax reform as an opportunity to increase investment in our nation’s infrastructure and shore up the Highway Trust Fund. I will continue to advocate for infrastructure to be addressed in this bill. Finally, I’m greatly concerned about the deficit effect of this legislation, which the Joint Committee on Taxation has initially estimated would add over $1.5 trillion to our national debt. “Nonetheless, I will remain engaged in order to learn more, and to advocate for a bill that will bring relief and opportunity to my constituents and the middle class.”
10.26.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today I opposed a Republican budget that focuses on fast-tracking a partisan tax reform process over pretty much everything else, including children, seniors, veterans, and middle-class Americans in my district and across the country. “The GOP budget takes significant funding from important investments in infrastructure, job training, clean energy, and research and development. It also makes substantial cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and programs that benefit veterans, seniors, children, and our communities. “As a former educator, it frustrates me that my colleagues across the aisle support a bill that fails to prioritize our future, cutting education initiatives and making college more expensive for the middle class. I know we can do better. Let's work together to give a boost to hard-working families.”
10.23.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I’m frustrated that Congress has let about nine million children and their families down by not extending the bipartisan Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The program, whose funding authorization expired at the end of September, was first passed in 1997 as a way to provide health insurance for children that come from homes with limited incomes. Because of CHIP, the uninsured rate for children in our country is now less than five percent. “After spending months attempting to ‘repeal and replace’ the Affordable Care Act, which would have made healthcare even more unaffordable for millions of hard-working middle-class Americans, Republican leaders in Congress have put millions of families at risk by allowing CHIP to expire. There is still time to fix this before all the funding runs out. We need to come together and reauthorize the program. Let’s not fail our future.”
10.23.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski is currently accepting nomination request letters from young men and women in the Third Congressional District who want to enter one of the U.S. Service Academies in 2018. “One of my congressional duties that I value the most is helping young men and women pursue their goal of serving our nation by entering one of our military service academies,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is an honor and privilege to be able to nominate outstanding young leaders who want to serve others. I encourage those who are interested to begin a process that could truly change their lives and the future of our country.” The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1st of the year they would enter the academy, be a United States citizen, have graduated from high school, be unmarried, have taken the ACT and/or SAT, and have met the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January of 2018, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is November 27th, 2017. Please be advised that a congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance into the academy. Nomination requests should be submitted to Rep. Lipinski’s office at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL, 60638. The phone number is (773) 948-6223.
10.17.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I’m happy to hear the announcement of a bipartisan Senate agreement that should lead to a 20% reduction in premiums for healthcare plans purchased through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The Senate plan appears to build off of an agreement that I helped negotiate in July as part of the bipartisan House Problem Solvers Caucus. The agreement will guarantee cost-sharing reduction payments that President Trump announced on Friday that he would stop. According to the Congressional Budget Office, guaranteeing these payments will mean at least a 20% reduction in premiums and a savings of almost $200 billion of taxpayer money over 10 years. I look forward to seeing the details of the Senate plan to make sure that it is good for all Americans, especially those who rely on the ACA. I will continue to work hard to make healthcare more affordable, and I hope this will be the start of more bipartisan action to help the middle class.”
10.11.2017	With bipartisan support, the House has approved H.R. 2105, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Small Business Cybersecurity Act of 2017,a bill led by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) that will help small businesses better protect their computer systems from cyberattacks that can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and even bankrupt many small companies. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework for Critical Infrastructure provides valuable guidance on cybersecurity best practices for organizations of all sizes, but small businesses often don’t have the time or resources to figure out how to adapt it to their needs and implement it. This bill directs NIST to create clear guidelines, tools, and best practices specifically for small businesses so that they can protect their networked resources. “Most small businesses do not have significant IT departments,” said Lipinski on the House floor. “Some do not even have any dedicated information security personnel. Thus they may be more at risk of cyberattacks than large enterprises. These incidents hurt individual small business owners, employees, customers, and American competitiveness. In my district, there is a fourth generation family manufacturing business that has suffered multiple sophisticated phishing attacks. The few times they have fallen victim to these attacks, the costs have been significant. The owners have told me that they would welcome guidance on affordable, off-the-shelf resources to strengthen their cyber-defenses and let them get back to focusing on their business. This is a story repeated across the country, which is why this bill is so important.” The guidelines created under this bill, like the NIST Framework, will be voluntary, so there won’t be any additional regulatory burden on small businesses. This legislation will give them the opportunity to secure their networks so that they can compete on a level playing field.
10.11.2017	Today the House passed H.R. 2763, the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Improvements Act of 2017, which contains innovative provisions authored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) that will help small businesses grow and create jobs. The bill reauthorizes and improves the Small Business Innovation Research Program and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Program, which are two of the most important sources of grant funding for American small businesses. These programs help create jobs by stimulating technological innovation, helping small businesses meet federal agency research and development (R&D) needs, and increasing the commercialization of federal R&D. “The SBIR and STTR programs have helped countless innovative small businesses grow jobs through American ingenuity,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This bill will make these programs work even better by providing small businesses with additional tools for bringing innovations to market which will increase economic impact.” The bill includes language authored by Lipinski to increase the amount of money that grant recipients are allowed to spend on business and technical services like market research, intellectual property protection, or participation in entrepreneurial training programs such as the highly successful Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program. This helps small businesses, especially start-ups, use their funds where they know they’re needed most, for technical assistance, creative approaches to problem solving, and other types of guidance needed in today’s marketplace. The reauthorization bill also contains a provision written by Lipinski to expand the highly successful Phase 0 proof-of-concept partnership pilot program, which he helped create at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 2011. This highly successful program provides the earliest funding for researchers exploring the possibility of turning their research into a viable medical product. After just two years in operation, the three hubs created by the NIH program have filed 30 patent applications, negotiated 14 technology licenses, formed 7 companies, submitted 53 proposals, and have 70 promising technologies in the pipeline. In H.R. 2763, Lipinski was able to extend the Phase 0 program for another five years at NIH and expand it to the National Science Foundation, NASA, and the Department of Energy. “Stony Brook University is thrilled to learn of the passage of the SBIR reauthorization bill by the House,” said Dr. Clinton Rubin, SUNY Distinguished Professor and Director of the Center for Biotechnology. “Not only does this legislation foster small company growth, but by including support for the Phase 0 Concept Centers, it enables the translation of promising basic biomedical science into new therapeutics, diagnostics, and medical devices. Visionary, bipartisan legislation such as this is a tremendous vehicle to benefit health and society, as well as strengthen our economy. We are thankful to Congressman Lipinski for his leadership and commitment. This bill is certain to stimulate job growth, create companies, and help bring the best treatments to those that so desperately need them.” On the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Lipinski is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittees on Energy and Space.
10.10.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Homer Township Fire Protection District has been awarded $318,812 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will help with the purchase of a water tanker truck. “I’m very happy to have helped the Homer Township Fire Protection District secure this federal grant, especially in light of the great need they have for a new water tanker truck to replace the old one that is no longer operational,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I had a good meeting with Chief Locacius and it’s great to know that the process is already underway to purchase the new tanker. Thanks to the first responders in Homer Township for the tireless work they do keeping residents safe.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
10.06.2017	Today, on the sixth annual National Manufacturing Day, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is praising manufacturers and their hard-working employees in the district and across the nation for the important role they play in our economy and for bringing good-paying jobs to our communities. In 2014, Lipinski's bill requiring the nation to have a plan for boosting manufacturing jobs, known as the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, became law. Because of this law, the government will be required next year to produce the first strategy to promote American manufacturing since the days of Alexander Hamilton. “Today is an opportunity to honor those who work in a sector of our economy that over the years has provided tens of millions of good-paying middle-class jobs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “We celebrate Manufacturing Day each year to recognize the manufacturing industry’s part in the growth and prosperity of the U.S. economy, and raise awareness of the important investment and career opportunities within the manufacturing sector.” The most recent data shows that the manufacturing industry contributes $2.17 trillion to the U.S. economy. Manufacturers employ 12.3 million workers across the country and support an additional 18.5 million jobs in the U.S., which is about one in every six private-sector jobs. As co-chair of the Congressional Buy American Caucus, Congressman Lipinski has worked to strengthen “Buy American” laws which impact federal purchases when it comes to transportation. He understands how critical it is that federal taxpayer dollars are spent at home, employing Americans whenever possible. “We must strengthen ‘Buy American’ laws and close the loopholes that allow our tax dollars to employ foreign workers rather than Americans,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Buying American is one of the fastest and most effective ways to create jobs and give the overall economy a boost.” National Manufacturing Day is organized by several national manufacturing associations, as well as manufacturers themselves, to draw attention to the industry through hundreds of events nationwide.
10.04.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement: “Today I helped introduce the Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act, which prohibits the manufacture, possession, sale, and transfer of devices designed to convert a semi-automatic weapon into the near-equivalent of a fully automatic machine gun. According to numerous reports, the shooter that killed at least 59 people and injured more than 520 others in Las Vegas used a device known as a ‘bump stock,’ which can be attached to a semi-automatic weapon to rapidly accelerate its rate of fire. Currently, this device, which allows someone to fire a semi-automatic weapon at a rate of 400 to 800 rounds per minute, is readily available for purchase online and legal to buy. Automatic fire guns are already very strictly limited so this bill is simply in line with current federal law. “Passing this bill is just common sense, and hopefully something that the majority of my colleagues in Washington will support.”
10.03.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “We continue to mourn those killed in the horrific massacre in Las Vegas and pray for all the victims as well as their families and friends. The flags throughout Washington lowered to half-staff are a constant reminder that our nation is mourning, although most of us cannot forget the lives tragically taken from us. “But there is more that needs to be done beyond praying and mourning; we must take action to try to prevent further gun violence in our nation. Our communities and innocent families have borne far too much pain from this senseless violence. “While the vast majority of gun owners in the U.S. are responsible individuals who are not threats to their community, even one irresponsible, unstable, or dangerous individual with a gun poses a great risk. We need to do more to keep guns out the hands of criminals and those suffering mental health challenges. I have strongly supported measures to improve our background check system, and to require background checks on all gun sales, including at gun shows and between private individuals. We must also do more to maintain sufficient information in these systems about who cannot or should not be allowed to buy a weapon. Many states and even some federal agencies are not updating their systems with sufficient criminal background and mental health status information, and that leaves background checks less able to prevent gun sales to risky individuals. “Our laws must also be updated to prevent and increase penalties for gun trafficking and straw purchases. Too many of the guns involved in crimes in Chicago and elsewhere get into criminals’ hands through ‘straw purchases,’ where a person with a clean record buys firearms for someone who would get blocked. This must stop. We must also better prevent individuals from selling or transferring guns with the intent of subverting the background check system or other gun restrictions, and work to find ways to prevent guns from being trafficked from states with lax controls to others. “We must do a better job with education and research. Congress has prevented the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institute of Health from conducting research on the causes of and consequences from gun availability and gun crime. We need to end that ban, and let research tell us what we may not yet know. Any new knowledge that can reduce harm is something that we should pursue. And we should use that research and other material to better educate gun owners and the public about firearms, the threats posed by the irresponsible use of guns, and about gun safety. “In order to assess these and other proposals in a comprehensive fashion, I support the establishment of a select committee on gun violence. Congress needs to take a serious, unvarnished and across-the-board look at what policies would work best to keep America safe from gun violence. Our current committee structure, and the interest of some politicians to sit on their hands when it comes to gun violence, necessitates a higher-level, special approach. “Finally, we should not take steps in the opposite direction by passing legislation such as the SHARE Act which, among other provisions, would deregulate silencers for firearms. Silencers have been strictly regulated, and making them widely available would reduce safety in our communities, threaten police, and increase the potential for violent crime. Numerous police organizations have stated their opposition to relaxing gun laws like this, and making these devices more available is the wrong direction for our national policy. “These actions are first steps towards addressing gun violence in our nation. They are all common sense. They all have very widespread support. However, similar efforts I have worked on with my colleagues in Washington to institute these policy changes have fallen short after other horrific massacres. But we cannot stop fighting. I won’t stop doing so until sensible policy changes are made and we make Americans far safer from the threat of gun violence.”
09.28.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has helped introduce the Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017, which requires the Department of Defense to put together a comprehensive report on significant cybersecurity risks to the national electric grid and the potential consequences for military readiness if the grid is attacked. This legislation will improve America’s defenses and make the power grid we all rely on more secure. “This bill will help protect our electric grid from attacks by America’s enemies who are trying to take down our defenses,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It will also help us harden our entire electric grid against cyberattacks, protecting Americans and American businesses from attempts by online adversaries to disrupt our lives.” The Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017, which has a companion bill that was recently introduced in the Senate, requires the Secretaries of Defense, Energy, and Homeland Security, as well as the Director of National Intelligence, to issue a report to Congress identifying significant cybersecurity risks to critical defense infrastructure, assessing the potential effects of such risks on the readiness of America's Armed Forces, evaluating the strategic benefits and challenges of isolating military infrastructure from the electric grid, and recommending a path forward to address these security risks.
09.25.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Oak Lawn Fire Department has been awarded a $1,347,952 grant through the Department of Homeland Security to help with hiring expenses. “I am very happy to have helped the Oak Lawn Fire Department win this large grant to assist with hiring needs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This funding will help the Fire Department continue its great work in protecting the residents of Oak Lawn.” “This much-needed grant will allow us to reduce overtime costs, save taxpayer dollars, and bring a new generation of highly-trained firefighters to the village, stated Oak Lawn Mayor Dr. Sandra Bury. “We are very appreciative of this grant, and especially of Congressman Lipinski’s stalwart support of our first responders.” The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
09.22.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Cicero Fire Department has been awarded $123,810 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will help purchase 2,600 combination carbon monoxide and smoke detectors. “These simple, relatively inexpensive devices have the potential to save many lives,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “The equipment the fire department will purchase is designed to last ten years without the need to replace the power source. I’m pleased to help bring more of these life-saving devices to the residents of Cicero.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
09.15.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Community Nurse Health Center in La Grange has been awarded a grant through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The organization will receive $175,701 to support expanded access to mental health and substance abuse services, including the treatment, prevention, and awareness of opioid abuse. Community Nurse currently provides medical, psychiatric, behavioral, and dental care - as well as health education and eligibility assistance - for over 5,000 low-income children and families in the western suburbs. “There is no one more deserving of federal support than the Community Nurse Health Center in La Grange,” said Rep. Lipinski. “During my recent visits to their facility I saw the great care that they provide people who often have nowhere else to turn for help. This grant to support their care for people dealing with mental health and substance abuse issues will help them continue the great work they have been doing for almost a century. Congress cannot solve the national opioid crisis on its own, but it can certainly help give various groups and organizations some assistance in confronting a difficult issue that is still not getting enough attention. I promise to continue to fight for more support for community health centers and for a growing problem that no neighborhood is immune to.” “We are so pleased to be awarded supplemental funding to address local mental health and substance abuse needs,” said Community Nurse CEO Angela Curran. “We are grateful for the investment of additional resources so we can better meet the need for coordinated and integrated care that addresses physical and mental health and the devastating effects of substance abuse on local residents.” It was announced earlier this month that Community Nurse will be merging with Pillars, effective January 1st, 2018. Pillars is the largest nonprofit provider of mental health and social services in the western and southwestern suburbs. They currently serve 10,000 people each year through 30 programs across mental health, addictions, domestic and sexual violence, and child and family services. Several other mergers of this type have recently occurred in Illinois and across the country as organizations seek to better integrate primary and behavioral healthcare and sustain themselves financially.
09.14.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) shares the anger and frustration of his constituents and millions of other Americans following reports of yet another massive cybersecurity breach in our country. Personal information, including Social Security numbers, for as many as 143 million U.S. consumers was exposed in the Equifax hack. The attackers stole private data by exploiting a weakness in the commonly-used Apache Struts framework, an open source programming environment for building web applications. “This is not only the failure of Equifax, but also regulators at the state and federal level, to have permitted such a cyber breach to have occurred,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Nearly every adult American relies on credit agencies for their day-to-day financial business, and to protect their credit worthiness. Equifax must be held accountable for the failure of its computer system protections, and Congress must conduct immediate oversight of the Security and Exchange Commission and other agencies that should assure the proper conduct of Equifax and other private credit agencies. While the offer of credit freezes and some limited reporting is an important step, Equifax can and should do more to protect credit and personal information, and we should consider new federal rules to address this breach and prevent future intrusions.” In addition, Lipinski has written to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney inquiring about the extent of federal agency use of the Apache Struts framework and the potential susceptibility to the type of attack waged against Equifax. Federal agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, and the Department of Education store and process significant amounts of sensitive consumer data and the public is justifiably concerned about security. “Web applications built in the Apache Struts framework are widely used,” stated Lipinski in a letter to Mulvaney. “By one estimate, at least 65% of Fortune 100 companies make use of the technology. Given its ubiquity in the private sector, it is likely that the Struts framework was also used to build government web applications. The Equifax attackers exploited one of two Struts vulnerabilities and, while it is not yet clear which one was targeted, the Apache Software foundation released patches for both this year, with the most recent being issued on September 4th. While I am encouraged to see that both vulnerabilities and associated patches are listed on the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team’s website, indicating that the appropriate branch of the Government is aware of the issue, I am concerned that not all agency computer systems may have been updated.” The House Science, Space, and Technology Committee has jurisdiction over cyber issues, particularly with the Federal government. As a matter of oversight in his role as a senior member of the Committee, Lipinski is asking Director Mulvaney to provide information on how widely-used the Apache Struts framework is within federal agencies, and whether each agency has patched their software to eliminate the vulnerability. In the 113th Congress, Lipinski’s Cybersecurity Enhancement Act was passed and became law. This law was designed to increase the security of federal networks and information systems, improve the transfer of cybersecurity technologies to the marketplace, coordinate and prioritize federal cybersecurity research and development efforts, and train a cybersecurity workforce. “With so much at stake for everyone, I look forward to hearing what the credit agencies have to say in front of Congress,” Lipinski said. “These businesses have an especially large impact on the lives of people in my district and across the country, so they need to be held accountable. We need to learn more about the vulnerability that led to this attack and the steps that are being taken in government and elsewhere to make sure that important customer information is being protected. It is critical that we build on what my bill started and make cybersecurity more of a priority, both in the public and private sectors.”
09.14.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today, I voted against the massive, highly-partisan omnibus spending bill. Simply put, it is the wrong direction for our nation. If approved, it would gut essential agencies and programs that protect the environment, further scientific exploration and research, regulate Wall Street, repair and enhance our infrastructure, improve education for everyone, strengthen our economy, help our neighbors get back on their feet, and build critical relationships at home and around the world. “If signed into law, the bill would hurt efforts to strengthen the economy and equip workers, especially the middle class, with the training they need for better-paying jobs. It would also slash investments in infrastructure and economic development, negatively impact access to Pell Grants and after-school programs, eliminate Registered Apprenticeship grants, and cut Workforce Innovation grants. “It would put our overall health and safety at risk by gutting the EPA and other agencies that work to keep our air and water clean, and reduce funding for the law enforcement organizations we rely on. In addition, the GOP bill actually prohibits the use of funds to implement or enforce the provisions of the Affordable Care Act, which will lead to less health coverage and higher costs. My constituents and all Americans deserve much better than this, and hopefully we can get there with bipartisan support before the end of the year.”
09.14.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded an over one-million-dollar grant to a local educational partnership of academic institutions and organizations from the Chicago area for the purpose of ensuring that all Chicago Public School (CPS) students have access to inclusive, high-quality, introductory computer science education in high school. About a decade ago, a partnership began forming in Chicago around the common goal of providing all CPS high school students access to meaningful and engaging computer science instruction. This collaboration ? the Chicago Alliance For Equity in Computer Science (CAFECS) ? includes The Learning Partnership from Western Springs, DePaul University, Loyola University of Chicago, CPS, and the University of Illinois at Chicago. CPS, the third largest school district in the nation, requires all students starting high school this year or later to complete a computer science (CS) course. CAFECS will ensure that CPS provides sufficient support to teachers and holds all schools accountable for offering high-quality CS across the entire district. CAFECS will empower at least 25,000 young people with the foundational practices of computer science. “I believe it is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and our young people receive an education that will allow them to succeed in the jobs of tomorrow,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I would especially like to thank The Learning Partnership for their hard work, and for being yet another small business success story in the Third Congressional District. As a former teacher, one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, and co-chair of the House STEM Education Caucus, I continue to be a strong advocate for improving computer science education at all levels.” On the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Lipinski is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, which oversees the National Science Foundation and STEM education programs, and also sits on the Subcommittees on Energy and Space. Yesterday, Dr. Steven McGee, founder of The Learning Partnership, was a featured speaker at a special Science, Space, and Technology Committee roundtable on STEM education and computer science. “According to a recent study, there are over half a million open computing jobs nationwide, representing significant untapped economic value,” stated Lipinski in his introduction of McGee. “Without action, this gap is likely to widen as our use of technology grows and we discover new ways for computers to enhance our lives. One way to close the workforce gap is to make computer science education a regular part of school curricula, alongside subjects like math, English, and social studies. I’m proud to say that’s exactly what Dr. McGee from my district is working to do.” When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, Congressman Lipinski wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation (NSF). He was also a member of the House-Senate Conference Committee that completed work on the America COMPETES Act, a response to a National Academies report warning that America must take action if it wants to maintain its place as the world’s scientific and technological leader.
09.08.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today at a press conference with Democratic Governor Hickenlooper (CO), Republican Governor Kasich (OH), and the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus: “Governors Hickenlooper and Kasich made the clear case today that Congress needs to act very quickly to prevent health insurance from becoming even less affordable for millions of Americans when ACA premiums lock in for 2018 later this month. The Problem Solvers Caucus healthcare plan will prevent a 20% increase in premiums for benchmark plans by guaranteeing cost-sharing reduction (CSR) funding and help lower rates an additional 10% with a stabilization fund. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that by guaranteeing CSR payments we would prevent a $194 billion increase in our federal debt. Congress needs to come together to do the right thing for Americans by passing this bipartisan, commonsense plan.” The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group of 43 members of the House of Representatives dedicated to working together to develop solutions to important issues facing the American people.
09.07.2017	Last night, the House approved an amendment by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) to provide $9 million to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to facilitate the development and safe deployment of self-driving vehicles. The funding will enable the NHTSA to carry out the directives included in the SELF DRIVE Act (H.R. 3388), which passed the House yesterday. It will help provide the auto industry, consumers, and policymakers with the certainty they need to advance automated vehicle technology and keep America in the lead in this rapidly developing field. The funding will enable the NHTSA to validate the safety of self-driving cars, define new testing protocols as the technology advances, and partner with industry – along with state and local governments – to conduct oversight of these new vehicles. The amendment was added to H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018. “The NHTSA will play a key role in fostering adoption of this technology that promises safer roads, decreased energy usage and emissions, less congestion, and expanded mobility, and this new funding is critical to facilitating their work,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As the co-chairman of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus and an engineer, I have made it a priority on the Transportation and Science Committees to promote policies that will keep America at the forefront of this technology. Not only can it save lives, help the environment, and cut commute times, but it has the potential to create a manufacturing boom in the country that leads the way in the development of these new vehicles.” During the 114th Congress, Lipinski authored the Future TRIP Act. Key provisions of that bill, including the establishment of a regional transportation center to study automated vehicles were later passed into law in a comprehensive transportation bill known as the FAST Act. “Automated vehicles are highly complex, and present a number of equally complex policy considerations,” stated Lipinski. “While the SELF DRIVE Act is a significant step forward in defining the federal government’s role in this emerging technology, we still have important issues to consider related to insurance, cyber-security, and data sharing. I look forward to continuing to collaborate with my colleagues to examine this evolving industry and define the federal government’s role in promoting American innovation while also keeping people safe.”
09.07.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded Midway Airport a $2.25 million grant to extend a taxiway. “Midway is one of America's busiest airports and a major economic engine in the Third Congressional District,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will help ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible. I will continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway and the neighborhoods around it.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Since coming into office, he has helped secure tens of millions of dollars for projects to improve the airport and surrounding communities.
09.07.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is inviting students to participate in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge, a competition designed to encourage student involvement in computer science and coding. This nationwide effort allows students to compete against their peers by creating an application – or “app” – for mobile, tablet, or computer devices. “As a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, co-chair of the STEM Ed Caucus, a longtime supporter of innovation and scientific research, and a former teacher, I couldn’t be more excited to bring the App Challenge to the Third District,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at all levels is one of the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world. This competition gives students a challenge that will help inspire them to learn and to grow their computer programming skills.” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students who live in or go to school in the Third District, but each student may only compete in one district. Students of all skill levels are encouraged to participate and learn how to create their own apps. The challenge is intended for high school students, but there is no minimum age required for participation. Students that have graduated from high school are not eligible to participate. Students may compete as individuals or in teams of up to four members. At least two members of each team must be eligible to compete in the district in which they enter. Apps created may cover any topic, but they must be original, appropriate, and have been created within the last calendar year (between November 2, 2016 and November 1, 2017). Students entering the competition must submit their app on CongressionalAppChallenge.us by 11:00 AM (Central) on November 1, 2017. Submissions will be judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the Third Congressional District, chosen by a panel of expert judges, will be featured on CongressionalAppChallenge.us. The winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol, along with other winners from across the country. For more information or to register, contact one of the Congressman’s offices or visit lipinski.house.gov.
09.06.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “I am pleased to support providing additional funding for FEMA and the Small Business Administration to help with ongoing recovery efforts in Texas and Louisiana in response to Hurricane Harvey. My thoughts and prayers are with those families who have lost loved ones, their homes and well-being, and we must all do what we can to assist them in their long road to recovery. I’m proud that the people of our great nation have once again stepped up to support one another, and Congress must fulfill its role in providing the necessary resources to help with disaster recovery efforts too.”
09.05.2017	In response to President Trump’s announcement today that he will be ending DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals), Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is renewing his call for Congress to pass H.R. 496, the BRIDGE (Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy) Act, which would protect recipients of DACA from the threat of deportation. Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-6), the author of the bill, has limited co-sponsorship by Democrats to those who could also gain the support of a Republican co-sponsor. Four months ago, Lipinski became only the 13th Democratic co-sponsor when he was able to bring on Republican Rep. Fred Upton (MI-6) as a supporter. “President Trump had said that he would ‘deal with DACA with heart,’ but now it is up to Congress to act to protect these young immigrants,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Congress can do that by passing the bipartisan BRIDGE Act which would ensure that DACA recipients continue to be protected from deportation. I have always focused on bringing people together to solve problems, so earlier this year I proactively reached across the aisle to secure Rep. Upton’s support for this bill, which enabled me to also sign on as a cosponsor. I am hopeful that others join in this bipartisan effort to do what most Americans agree is the right thing to do.” The BRIDGE Act would grant those eligible under DACA three years of legal protection. DACA provides temporary protection from removal – as well as work authorization – to people who were brought to the United States as children, as long as they register with the government, pay a fee, and pass a criminal background check. More than 752 thousand individuals have received DACA authorization. Under the BRIDGE Act, a current DACA recipient would receive provisional protected presence until the expiration date of his or her DACA status and could apply for continued protected presence prior to that expiration. Applicants would be required to pay a reasonable fee, undergo criminal background checks, and meet a number of eligibility criteria indicating that they came to the United States as minors, grew up in this country, have pursued an education, have not committed any serious crimes, and do not pose a threat to our country. An individual’s provisional protected presence and employment authorization would be subject to revocation by the Department of Homeland Security if it is determined that the individual no longer meets the eligibility criteria. The BRIDGE Act would provide provisional protected presence and employment authorization for three years after the date of enactment of the legislation. Lipinski’s leadership on the BRIDGE Act has drawn praise from those concerned about the plight of those who have been given an opportunity under DACA. “The North American Institute for Mexican Advancement (NAIMA) understands that building support for immigration issues also requires the support of centrist legislators such as Congressman Dan Lipinski,” said NAIMA President Sergio Suarez. “After meeting with the Congressman, NAIMA applauds his endorsement of the Bridge Act in support of DACA youth. Rep. Lipinski’s support, along with his work to identify a Republican colleague to join as a co-sponsor of the bill, is a significant move in support of immigrant families.”
08.17.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded Midway Airport a $246,250 grant to reconstruct runway lighting at the airport and improve safety. “Midway serves a vital role in national air travel and our regional economy,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This investment will help to ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible. I promise to continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway and the neighborhoods and communities that surround it.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Since coming into office, he has helped secure tens of millions of dollars for projects to improve the airport and surrounding communities.
08.15.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement this afternoon: “Today’s Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report outlining the terrible results if President Trump eliminates cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) demonstrates why Congress needs to take up and pass the Problem Solvers Caucus healthcare plan as soon as possible. Two weeks ago, the caucus released a plan negotiated and endorsed by the bipartisan group of 43 House members that will provide relief to individuals, families, and small businesses by implementing, among other things, a guarantee that CSRs will be paid in 2018. “The nonpartisan CBO’s comprehensive analysis states that if CSR payments are not soon guaranteed for 2018, premiums for benchmark plans will go up an additional 20% next year and 25% in 2020. That’s on top of other increases caused by rising healthcare costs. In addition, the net federal deficit would rise by $194 billion over ten years because people would be given increased tax subsidies to purchase these more expensive plans. “CSR payments are required under the ACA to help low- to moderate-income individuals pay for out-of-pocket costs such as deductibles, but a flaw in the law did not directly fund them. As a result, the President has the ability to stop the payments unilaterally. Americans who rely on the ACA for insurance should not be penalized by the law’s defect. That is why the Problem Solvers’ plan commits Congress to funding the CSRs. “With premiums for 2018 scheduled to be locked in in early September, the time to act is now. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come together, support the commonsense solutions in the Problem Solvers’ plan, and ensure that hard-working American families have better access to affordable healthcare.”
08.15.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) delivered the following remarks this morning at the West Suburban Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s 52nd Annual New Teachers and Administrators Welcome Breakfast in La Grange: “I remember from my days as a teacher how exciting the beginning of a new school year is. This is especially true when starting at a new school. All the enthusiasm with having a clean slate and terrific plans for what I was going to be able to teach and inspire my students to learn that year. It’s an exhilarating feeling. Remember these days and try to hold on to these hopes and dreams for your students throughout the year, especially on those tough days. “Teaching well is one of the most difficult things to do, but that’s because it is also one of the most important vocations. The ability you have to influence young people is incredible. It is not just reading, writing, arithmetic, and every other subject students need to learn these days. During these times in our nation filled with anxiety, especially after we witnessed a horrible display of bigotry and hatred by white supremacists and neo-Nazis leading to violence and murder in Charlottesville, Virginia, we are once again reminded how important it is to teach our children the importance of respecting every person and not falling into hate. “We need to make clear that these vile beliefs and all other forms of hatred towards individuals or groups should be condemned and are never legitimate. The home is the primary place for children to learn this, in addition to churches, mosques, synagogues, and other places of worship, but as teachers you have a tremendous influence on young people by what you teach in words and actions. I know that you will do a great job of this because the fact that you have dedicated yourself to teaching shows how much you care about every child and every person. I thank you for this. “We never thank teachers enough or give them everything that they deserve for what they do for us. Today I want to thank you for what you do for our communities and our nation by being teachers. I will always work to do all I can to give you the support that you need. Have a great school year!”
08.09.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “President Trump’s recent comments regarding North Korea are extremely reckless, essentially mirroring the rhetoric we often hear from the Kim regime. When dealing with the safety and security of the American people and the world, the President needs to rise to the office he inhabits. He must work with his entire national security team and our regional allies in response to provocative actions by North Korea. They are a serious threat, but we need to see a more coordinated strategy coming out of the White House that is committed to exhausting all diplomatic options before considering anything else.”
08.04.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “With the recent news that 2018 premiums for health insurance in Illinois purchased under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) – also known as Obamacare – will rise as much as 43%, it is time for Congress to finally act to begin to fix the ACA and provide real affordable healthcare. On Monday, the Problem Solvers Caucus – a bipartisan group of 43 members of the House – announced that they had agreed upon a plan that would alleviate much of the proposed 2018 premium spike, help stabilize the individual market, and create a program that can further lower premiums another 10%. “Since the release of the agreement, support has been growing across the country. Newspaper editorial boards including the New York Times and the Washington Post have endorsed the Problem Solvers’ plan, and many constituents have come up to thank me for this commonsense proposal to make healthcare more affordable. “We have now begun working on drafting legislation to implement the plan. Caucus members, including myself, have been in contact with senators from both sides of the aisle who have expressed interest in the Problem Solvers’ plan. Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander announced this week that he is going to work with Democrats on bipartisan legislation to accomplish the same goals as the Caucus’ plan. “I helped negotiate this compromise plan, which is the first bipartisan effort to begin fixing the ACA. The purpose of this agreement is not to solve all the issues with the ACA, but to take commonsense steps that will make it work better and help American families right now. “Some will oppose this plan because it is a compromise, which means no one got everything they wanted. Others will oppose it because they want the ACA to collapse. Some partisans in both parties may even believe that if the ACA fails the other side will get blamed in the next election. But most Americans just want the ACA to be fixed so they can access affordable healthcare. They are tired of the status quo in Washington and want their representatives to work together to solve problems like this. That is what the Problem Solvers Caucus is doing.”
07.31.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is helping lead the Problem Solvers Caucus, a bipartisan group of 40 House members, in proposing a compromise plan that would stabilize the individual health insurance market by stopping a threatened 2018 premium spike while permanently lowering premiums. “For the past seven years, I’ve said that the two parties need to come together to work on fixes to the Affordable Care Act (ACA), commonly referred to as Obamacare,” said Rep. Lipinski. “On the heels of the failure of the Republican effort to repeal the ACA, the Problem Solvers Caucus is taking the lead in doing just that. The commonsense, bipartisan plan we are putting forward will take the steps that everyone agrees are needed to stabilize the individual health insurance market and reduce premiums.” The plan has five provisions, which will be paid for by offsets from within the healthcare system: 1. Appropriate funds so that cost-sharing reduction payments continue to be made. The current method of funding these payments has been ruled unconstitutional by the federal district court of Washington, D.C., so the Trump Administration has threatened to stop the payments. Such a move would result in a 15-20% jump in premiums for 2018, putting insurance out of reach for many and threatening to destabilize more state markets. The bipartisan plan would prevent this premium shock and the detrimental impact it would have. 2. Create a dedicated stability fund for states to facilitate reinsurance programs or other methods of paying for high-cost enrollees, resulting in a 5-10% reduction in premiums. 3. Raise the threshold on the employer mandate to businesses of 500 or more employees. Additionally, the definition of “full time” under the employer mandate would be revised to 40 hours. The Congressional Budget Office, Urban Institute, and other healthcare experts have said that repealing the employer mandate entirely would not have a significant effect on insurance coverage. 4. Repeal the medical device tax of 2.3%. 5. Provide clear guidance for states that want to innovate under existing Sections 1332 and 1333 of the ACA. “For far too long, the two parties have been fighting an ideological and political battle over healthcare,” stated Lipinski. “Now the individual insurance market is failing in some states and threatened in others as the Trump Administration won’t commit to continuing to make cost-sharing reduction payments. Instead of joining the partisan battle or standing on the sidelines, I helped lead our bipartisan group in agreeing to sit down, negotiate, compromise, and come to an agreement on a plan that will stabilize the individual market and reduce premiums. Passage of this plan would be a big win for the American people. “The purpose of this plan is not to solve all the issues with the ACA, but to avoid a disaster in the markets that would make affordable healthcare inaccessible for too many people. The American people want their representatives to be working for the good of the country and to make their lives better. That is what we did with this compromise. “Many thought they’d never see the day when so many Democrats and Republicans could agree on anything when it comes to providing affordable healthcare. We have proved that it is possible, and I’m hopeful that the rest of Congress sees what we have done and comes together for the good of the country.”
07.28.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Roberts Park Fire Protection District, which now includes the Village of Justice, has been awarded $569,674 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will help with hiring expenses. The Village of Justice became part of the Roberts Park Fire Protection District this past April. “It is becoming more and more difficult for local communities to provide the funding needed for fire protection,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I’m pleased this grant will help the Roberts Park Fire Protection District hire more brave men and women to protect the people of Justice and the surrounding area.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
07.28.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced the Veterans Apprenticeship and Certification Act to help veterans find the right career after military service and help employers find these qualified, dedicated, and hard-working Americans. Currently, veterans are not allowed to use their Post-9/11 GI benefits for the tuition and fees associated with participating in an apprenticeship. Lipinski’s bill would allow them to use their benefits for an apprenticeship program, which would greatly expand their ability to find the right career path once they leave military service. It would also provide them with opportunities to create professional connections and develop other professional skills. “As a veteran transitions and separates from military service, an apprenticeship can help them bridge the gap between service in the Armed Forces and civilian employment,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Apprenticeships offer veterans the opportunity to receive on-the-job training under the direct supervision of a professional accompanied by classroom instruction. They also provide veterans the opportunity to demonstrate and transfer the skills they acquired during military service to a civilian career.” According to the Department of Labor, there are over 350,000 job openings in manufacturing. Lipinski’s legislation would also direct the Department of Veterans Affairs to work with private industry to develop a pilot program for a National Institute for Metalworking Skills certification in computer numerically controlled (CNC) machining. A CNC certification is critical for anyone pursuing a career in metalworking and modern manufacturing. In May of this year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that 4.6 percent of post-9/11 veterans were unemployed compared to 4 percent of nonveterans. “As the number of apprenticeship programs increase and apprenticeships expand into new industries, our veterans should be put in a position to capitalize on that industry demand,” stated Lipinski. “We owe veterans so much that we can never repay, but with this bill we can help provide them with some assistance to get a good job and start a promising career after serving our nation in the Armed Forces.”
07.26.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after voting for new sanctions against Russia, Iran, and North Korea: “This bipartisan measure sends a strong and clear message to these nations that their continued aggression towards us or our allies will not be tolerated. “Russia is a direct threat to our NATO friends in the Baltics and in Poland, as well as a threat to peace and stability in the entire Western world. In the recent past, Russia has continued its hostile actions in Ukraine, sought to interfere in elections in the West, deployed treaty-violating nuclear cruise missiles, slaughtered innocent civilians in Syria, and grown increasingly close to Iran. “Despite past agreements, evidence shows that Iran continues to pursue the development and expansion of their military operation. That and their long record of human rights abuses shows that they have very little interest in relinquishing their status as a state sponsor of terrorism. “In recent months, North Korea has continued to build up and flaunt their illegal nuclear weapons program. In the face of very real threats to our country, we must close loopholes exploited by the Kim regime, and focus on countries, groups, and individuals that conduct business with North Korea. “This sanctions bill brings some reassurance to our constituents and others around the world that the United States Congress will not stand by while others attempt to undermine American strength and resolve. Hopefully, the President will sign this important legislation. If not, I’m confident there is enough bipartisan support in Congress to override a veto.”
07.25.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) - joined by a bipartisan group of representatives from Illinois - is urging the Trump Administration to reconsider a proposed cap in their Fiscal Year 2018 budget on funding for research institutions receiving grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The cap would significantly reduce cost sharing between the government and these research institutions, including universities, foundations, and private researchers, which would hamper medical research in Illinois and across the country. “Research cannot be conducted without facilities and support staff, yet this is exactly what the Trump Administration’s budget request targets,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Illinois is home to many institutions that do important medical research. This budget would hurt these institutions and result in less research into ways to improve Americans’ health.” Illinois is currently home to many highly-ranked universities and research institutions that conduct a significant amount of biomedical research. In Fiscal Year 2017, Illinois institutions received a total of more than $465 million in grants from the NIH. These grants support research, development, education, and the commercialization of new products and services in the national interest.
07.21.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Stickney Fire Department has been awarded $45,505 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase new power lift stretchers. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will allow the Stickney Fire Department to purchase much needed new equipment to continue to build upon their already impressive record of service.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
07.21.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Summit Fire Department has been awarded $106,286 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus equipment. “All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job,” said Rep. Lipinski. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do their best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
07.18.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by La Grange Village President Tom Livingston, Metra CEO Don Orseno, La Grange Area Historical Society President Mark Truax, Palmer Place Restaurant Owner and Metra Director Steve Palmer, and other interested business leaders and community members last week to officially mark the completion of the Stone Avenue Metra Station restoration project in La Grange. The renovations would not have been possible without Lipinski securing a $700,000 earmark for the $1.1 million project. “When the village came to me to ask for federal funding to restore the Stone Avenue Station, I made it a top priority and am very happy I was able to get it done,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “It is important that we preserve such beautiful pieces of our history, especially ones that still play a critical role in the daily life of our community. I want to thank the La Grange Area Historical Society, the La Grange Garden Club, and especially Jeannine McLaughlin for all their work in making this restoration possible. As someone who understands the importance of a strong public transportation system and its value to our community, it is especially gratifying that we were able to get this done.” Designed by local architect John Tilton, built in 1901, and designated a local landmark by the La Grange Area Historical Society in 1971, the station slowly deteriorated over time, making a comprehensive renovation necessary. To celebrate the completion of the project, a special plaque has been installed at the station. A separate plaque at the station specifically thanks Congressman Lipinski for securing funding for this local landmark. “Stone Avenue Station is very important to La Grange and surrounding communities,” said La Grange Village President Tom Livingston. “Thanks to Congressman Lipinski, the village can continue to build on its image as a transit oriented community. He has had a big impact improving our community and the region.” “This beautiful facility honors our history without sacrificing the amenities that people have come to expect from modern public transit centers,” said Palmer Place Restaurant Owner and Metra Director Steve Palmer. “I can’t thank Rep. Lipinski enough for his help on this station and other public transportation issues. No one serves our community better.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
07.18.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Freedom and tolerance are key American values, but there continues to be incidents where these values are violated at the expense of Muslim Americans. This is simply wrong. No one should be denied their dignity and their rights as Americans because of where they come from or their religion. That is completely unacceptable in our nation and in our communities. Americans come from many different places around the world and have different religious and other beliefs. But we must all strive to be accepting of our differences as we work together to protect our common American values. I want my Muslim constituents to know that I will continue to stand up for their freedom and dignity, and that my door will always be open to them.”
07.14.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) successfully added an amendment to the FY18 Defense Bill that will expand an innovative program developed in Silicon Valley that solves national security problems and makes America safer. Lipinski’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act authorizes the Hacking for Defense (H4D) program and enables the Secretary of Defense to expend up to $15 million to support development of curriculum, best practices, and recruitment materials for the program. The bill passed the House today. H4D combines the problem-solving techniques learned by members of the military in the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan with Silicon Valley lean business startup methods to teach students how to solve national security challenges. The program is a partnership between the Department of Defense (DOD), universities, and private companies who provide business mentoring and support. They also heavily recruit veterans to participate, which allows them to apply their battlefield knowledge to problem solving. One of H4D’s success stories was recently highlighted in the New York Times. Capella Space, a startup satellite imaging company that grew out of the first H4D cohort, developed a much more effective and less expensive method for tracking North Korean missile launches. “Rapid, low-cost technological innovation is what makes Silicon Valley revolutionary, but the DOD hasn't historically had the mechanisms in place to harness this American advantage,” stated Lipinski on the House floor. “Hacking for Defense creates ways for talented scientists and engineers to work alongside veterans, military leaders, and business mentors to innovate solutions that make America safer.” H4D is modeled after the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program, which has been teaching scientists and engineers the skills they need to turn their discoveries into commercial products since 2011. As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Congressman Lipinski was an early supporter of the I-Corps program and was responsible for helping it proliferate through the federal government. It has changed how federally funded research is commercialized.
07.14.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) added an amendment to the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that helps small and medium-sized manufacturers improve their cybersecurity practices and comply with the Department of Defense’s (DOD) updated cybersecurity standards. The bill passed the House today. Last year, DOD issued updated cybersecurity standards for their contractors that must be implemented by January 1, 2018. Since that time, small and midsized manufacturers have been scrambling to update their cybersecurity protocols but have not received enough support from DOD. Lipinski’s amendment encourages the Secretary of Defense to establish a cooperative program between the Office of the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the Defense Procurement Acquisition Policy, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology-Manufacturing Extension Partnership to educate and assist small and medium-sized manufacturers in achieving compliance with the updated standards. “I have heard from a number of small manufacturers in my district that it is very difficult getting the information and expertise necessary to institute these standards,” said Rep. Lipinski on the House floor. “They fear this may mean the end of their companies. America cannot afford to lose these small businesses. My amendment helps these small manufacturers and improves cybersecurity across the defense supply chain. This is a win for our country and our communities.” “Today, there are two kinds of businesses; those that know they’ve been hacked and those that don’t,” said Zach Mottl, co-owner of Atlas Tool & Die Works in Lyons. “When it comes to the United States’ defense industry supply chain, we have a very real issue and a serious need for improved cybersecurity. Still, many manufacturers, especially small and midsized companies, are ill equipped and lack the resources necessary to understand and implement these solutions. I applaud Congressman Lipinski’s work to help small and midsized businesses - vital parts of our defense supply chain - to survive and to secure our country’s critical information from cyberattacks.”
07.06.2017	The Small Business Innovation Research/Small Business Technology Transfer (SBIR/STTR) Improvements Act of 2017 is moving forward with new language from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) aimed at increasing the success rate of new innovative small businesses. The federal government awards approximately $2.2 billion per year in research and development grants to small businesses through this highly competitive program. With 11 participating federal agencies giving out about 145,000 grants annually, the program is the largest source of federal grant funding to small businesses and an essential component of the innovation ecosystem that drives the U.S. economy. “The SBIR/STTR program provides critical research and development funding to innovative small businesses to help them succeed,” Rep. Lipinski said. “These small businesses are the economic engine for our nation and we have to do all we can to help them so they can produce the jobs that Americans need. That is why this reauthorization bill is so important and I’m happy to have worked to improve and move it forward.” Lipinski was able to add an amendment to the bill that would expand a program that he was originally able to create at the National Institutes of Health in the 2011 SBIR Reauthorization Bill. This program has resulted in the establishment of three commercialization hubs that have been successful in improving the commercialization rate of federal research funding, which has helped create new small businesses and jobs around these centers. Lipinski’s amendment will help greatly expand the number of these types of successful centers around the country and give small businesses across a variety of sectors more tools to help them prosper. Lipinski also worked with Reps. Ben Ray Luján (NM-3) and Brad Schneider (IL-10) to incorporate the Support Startup Businesses Act into the SBIR reauthorization, which would increase the amount of grant funding that a small business can use for technical assistance services like market research, intellectual property protection, and training and education. Congressman Lipinski helped pass the SBIR/STTR Improvements Act of 2017 in the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and it will now go to the House floor.
06.30.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Orland Fire Protection District has been awarded $143,182 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase new portable radios. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders,” said Rep. Lipinski. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do the best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
06.30.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Burbank Fire Department has been awarded $861,280 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase new portable radio units and equipment training. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe,” Rep. Lipinski said. “These much-needed new radios will help keep these brave men and women safe, while also helping them to better serve the residents and businesses of Burbank and the surrounding area.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
06.28.2017	During Tuesday’s House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee mark-up, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was able to add amendments to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill which will enhance consumer protections during online ticket purchases, add clean-energy vehicles at airports, and increase transparency at the FAA. H.R. 2997, the 21st Century AIRR Act, passed the committee with Lipinski and all others Democrats and one Republican in opposition. A major problem with the bill is a plan to privatize the air traffic control system which would, among other issues, leave the FAA and Congress with no ability to impact noise issues around airports such as Midway and O’Hare. “I'm pleased that I was able to add protections for consumers buying airline tickets from online travel sites, clean-energy vehicles at airports that will protect the environment, and disclosure rules that will help promote the purchase of American-made goods,” said Rep. Lipinski. “However, I am disappointed that the airline industry worked hard to defeat my common-sense protections for passengers who face long delays that are the fault of airlines. As families travel this holiday weekend, they should not have to worry about an airline’s failure leaving them tired, hungry, and sleepless overnight on an airport floor.” In response to recent incidents involving airline passengers, Rep. Lipinski offered an amendment to better protect airline passengers facing long delays caused by airlines, such as an involuntary bumping or an airline computer malfunction – a breakdown that has occurred more than 30 times since 2015. Lipinski’s amendment would have given mandatory procedures for airlines to follow to accommodate passengers on another airline's flight should their scheduled flight be delayed for reasons within the airline's control. If the delay exceeds four hours and the airline cannot rebook the passenger on their airline, they must seek flights on another airline to get the passenger to their destination, a process called “interlining.” A few airlines already do this, but it is not universally used by all commercial airlines and some will only do it if a passenger makes a special request. The amendment would have also required that airlines provide food in the event of a long delay and overnight accommodations if the delay occurs between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. Unfortunately, the amendment was defeated in committee following heavy lobbying by the airline industry against the consumer protections. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee did approve an amendment by Lipinski that requires large online ticket agents to follow the same rules that are already in place for the airlines. That language requires companies that sell airline tickets online to provide prompt refunds to passengers that are entitled to them, timely notification of schedule changes, and easily accessible information about the policies of the airline on which they have booked their ticket. The Committee also approved an amendment from Lipinski that would aid airports in purchasing zero- emission and low-emission vehicles in order to cut down on pollution in and around airports and protect the environment. Another Lipinski amendment adopted by the committee helps promote the purchase of American products by increasing transparency in the FAA’s procurement policies. Rep. Lipinski is co-chair of the Buy American Caucus and has worked tirelessly to support domestic manufacturing. His language requires the agency to annually disclose the dollar value of products that the FAA buys from foreign companies. He included a similar amendment that applies to the Army Corps of Engineers to the House water resources bill in 2016 that ultimately became law.
06.27.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has been joined by lawmakers from both sides of the aisle in a call for a strong “Buy American” component in the ongoing renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Lipinski and his colleagues are asking the Administration to prioritize making “Buy American” laws permissible under NAFTA. “Laws that boost strong domestic content government procurement policies ensure that hard-working Americans’ tax dollars are spent on products that are made in the United States and stimulate local economies,” Rep. Lipinski and his peers stated in a bipartisan letter to United States Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer. “It is vital that our trade agreements are negotiated to allow domestic content preferences. Strong ‘Buy American’ laws support manufacturing jobs, decrease the trade deficit, and support the Administration’s ‘Buy American, Hire American’ initiative.” The current language of NAFTA forces the federal government to consider bids from Mexico and Canada when making procurement decisions and prevents the full application of “Buy American” laws. Specifically, Chapter Ten of NAFTA currently requires all NAFTA countries to give non-discriminatory national treatment to firms in the other signatory countries. These international firms are required to be held at the same preference as domestic firms. Although “Buy American” statutes require the federal government to give preference to American made products, NAFTA makes full compliance with this law impossible and prevents the federal government from bolstering domestic manufacturing. “With NAFTA renegotiation priorities currently being debated, we ask that the Administration support ‘Buy American’ laws in its negotiation objectives and throughout the renegotiation process,” continued Lipinski and his colleagues in their letter. “This will enable the federal government to spend tax dollars to support American jobs and manufacturing, and help revitalize the middle class.”
06.26.2017	In the wake of recent terror attacks on transit targets in Europe, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), co-chair of the House Public Transportation Caucus and a senior member on the Highway and Transit Subcommittee, has introduced the bipartisan Securing America’s Facilities, Equipment, and Rail: Taking Responsibility for American National Security in Transit (SAFER TRANSIT) Act to better secure our country’s public transit systems and the infrastructure we rely on. “Critical passenger rail safety requirements from the 9/11 Act have yet to be implemented, including a regulation for rail carriers to complete security assessments, a regulation for rail security training, and a program for conducting background checks on rail employees,” said Rep. Lipinski. “With ever-growing security concerns across the nation, my bill directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to develop a process to follow through on critical security provisions.” The TSA deploys Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) at high-risk transportation locations to increase the level of law enforcement visibility and terrorism deterrence. Unfortunately, authorization for VIPR teams and Surface Transportation Security Inspectors expired in 2011. Lipinski’s legislation would reauthorize this program. The SAFER TRANSIT Act also provides stakeholders with the resources they need to effectively respond to a rapidly changing threat environment by reauthorizing Department of Homeland Security (DHS) research programs through 2020. This important research focuses on solutions to fill capability and vulnerability gaps, such as explosive detection, identified by TSA and transit agencies. In addition, the bill creates a specific transit security training program through the DHS Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and makes it available to officers from local law enforcement agencies that will attend the course and return to their home departments to share the tactics and training they have learned with their peers. The bill also reauthorizes the Intercity Bus Security Grant Program (IBSGP) which funds training and exercises, facility security enhancements, passenger screening, and vehicle security measures for over-the-road bus and truck operators. “The American Bus Association (ABA) strongly supports the SAFER TRANSIT Act and applauds Congressman Lipinski for taking the lead on this important issue,” said ABA President and CEO Peter Pantuso. “The motorcoach industry remains committed to the safety and security of the more than 600 million passenger trips we carry out annually. The security threat to the transportation industry is real and increasing with large motor vehicles being used as weapons around the world. These grant programs play a critical role in mitigating risks facing our industry and recognize the importance of securing transportation operations for the traveling public. We look forward to working with Congressman Lipinski to move this bill forward and increasing our nation’s overall transportation security.” “The Chicago Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) is pleased that Congressman Lipinski is once again demonstrating leadership on this important initiative,” stated RTA Executive Director Leanne Redden. “Advocating for the development of programs that will further ensure the security and safety of our nation’s public transportation systems should be a high priority and we are glad that these issues are being highlighted. We thank Congressman Lipinski for his continued advocacy on behalf of our region-wide transit system and its millions of daily passengers.” “The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) appreciates Rep. Lipinski’s leadership in introducing the SAFER Transit Act,” said APTA Acting President and CEO Richard White. "As public transportation systems continue to face the threat of terrorist and cyber-attacks and regularly respond to other security emergencies in and around public transit facilities, this legislation would provide vital federal support to enhance transit security throughout our nation. The bill would develop a Public Transit Security Police Training Program to train law enforcement personnel and continue essential funding for security related research and development.”
06.26.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the La Grange Fire Department has been awarded $309,000 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase new portable radios. Their current radios are well past their service life, with some models no longer supported for service or repairs. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on both our region and country's first responders,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will allow the La Grange Fire Department to purchase much needed new equipment and build upon their already impressive service record.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
06.22.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is leading a letter to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to oppose the removal of consumer protections against ringless voicemail. Ringless voicemail allows callers to send messages directly to a cell phone voicemail inbox without first alerting the user that a call is coming through. A provider of this technology had been petitioning the FCC to exclude ringless voicemails from the definition of a phone call, which would exempt them from key consumer protections against autodialed calls established by the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. “Exempting ringless voicemail from existing consumer protection laws would give telemarketers approval to send unlimited unsolicited messages to consumers at the expense of their time and money,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Worst of all, while phone users can block phone numbers in order to avoid calls from unwanted parties, there is currently no way to block unwanted messages from ringless voicemail. This is especially problematic in light of the fact that voicemail storage is often limited and many phone users still use limited-minute or prepaid phone plans. Increased use of this technology without any consumer protections has the potential to make it difficult for phone users and legitimate callers to communicate. If presented with this anti-consumer petition, the FCC should reject it.” The Telephone Consumer Protection Act prohibits autodialed or prerecorded calls to cell phone numbers except in cases of emergency, to collect debts owed to or guaranteed by the United States, or when a customer has provided prior express consent for such calls to be made. This law plays a critical role in stemming the flood of unwanted, disruptive calls to cell phones. “Unsolicited and unwanted phone calls are already on the rise, as technological developments make it easier for disreputable callers to evade consumer protection laws,” said Lipinski. “I hear regular complaints from my constituents about scam calls and the decreasing utility of the Do Not Call registry. We should be shoring up protections for phone customers instead of making it easier for unwanted calls to clog up their inboxes. Consumers need more protections, not fewer.”
06.21.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 496, the BRIDGE (Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy) Act, which would protect recipients of DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) from the threat of deportation. This past Friday, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) continued the uncertainty for DACA recipients when it stated, “The future of the DACA program continues to be under review with the administration.” The BRIDGE Act would grant those eligible under DACA three years of legal protection as well as employment authorization. DACA provides temporary protection from removal – as well as work authorization – to people who were brought to the United States as children, as long as they register with the government, pay a fee, and pass a criminal background check. More than 752 thousand individuals have received DACA authorization. Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-6), the author of H.R. 496, has limited co-sponsorship by Democrats to those who could also gain the support of a Republican co-sponsor. Lipinski became only the 13th Democratic co-sponsor when he was able to bring on Rep. Fred Upton (MI-6) as a supporter. “President Trump said that he would not deport DACA recipients, but there continues to be stories that raise concerns about the status of these young immigrants and the latest announcement by DHS only adds to the uncertainty,” said Rep. Lipinski. “That is why we need Congress to act and pass the BRIDGE Act. It would ensure that these individuals can continue to work, get an education, and be protected from deportation. Most Americans agree that this is the right thing to do.” Lipinski’s leadership on the BRIDGE Act has drawn praise from those concerned about the plight of those who have been given an opportunity under DACA. “The North American Institute for Mexican Advancement (NAIMA) understands that building support for immigration issues also requires the support of centrist legislators such as Congressman Dan Lipinski,” stated NAIMA President Sergio Suarez. “After meeting with the Congressman, NAIMA applauds his endorsement of the BRIDGE Act in support of DACA youth. Lipinski’s support, along with his work to identify a Republican colleague to join as a co-sponsor of the bill, is a significant move in support of immigrant families.” Under the BRIDGE Act, a current DACA recipient would receive provisional protected presence until the expiration date of his or her DACA status and could apply for continued protected presence prior to that expiration. Applicants would be required to pay a reasonable fee, undergo criminal background checks, and meet a number of eligibility criteria indicating that they came to the United States as minors, grew up in this country, have pursued an education, have not committed any serious crimes, and do not pose a threat to our country. An individual’s provisional protected presence and employment authorization would be subject to revocation by DHS if it is determined that the individual no longer meets the eligibility criteria. The BRIDGE Act would provide provisional protected presence and employment authorization for three years after the date of enactment of the legislation. “The BRIDGE Act is a bipartisan effort co-sponsored by an equal number of Republicans and Democrats in the House,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I have always focused on bringing people together to solve problems, and I am very happy that I was able to gain Republican Rep. Fred Upton’s support for this bill. Unfortunately, Congress is not working in a bipartisan manner on comprehensive immigration reform that fixes the problem and prevents it from reoccurring. So we should at least make sure that those who signed up for DACA are protected.”
06.09.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after voting against legislation undermining Wall Street oversight & reform: “Last night, I voted against H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act. This bill would roll back the progress we have made in reining in Wall Street and stopping bank bailouts. It would also gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which has secured close to $12 billion in relief for 29 million consumers. I voted three times against the $700 billion Wall Street bailout. We should work to make sure that oversight over the financial system is strong enough so that the situation that led to the bailouts never happens again. “We are less than 10 years out from the worst financial crisis to hit the U.S. since the Great Depression. Unemployment reached 10%, millions lost their homes, and home values plummeted. The combination of toxic loans and complex connections between financial institutions meant that the collapse of one threatened to undermine the entire financial system. Congress should push for strong oversight so that toxic loans & Wall Street banks won’t destroy livelihoods again, instead of giving free rein to Wall Street to repeat its devastating mistakes.”
06.02.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement: “President Trump’s short-sighted decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement will damage our economy and environment. The world-uniting pact is not only flexible enough for our nation to meet all our energy needs, but it would help put us in a better leadership position when it comes to creating the energy jobs of tomorrow. This decision by the President suggests to those at home and abroad that the United States may not be the best place to develop, test, and manufacture new clean energy solutions. As a member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, I promise to continue to lead the way in Congress on the goals and overall mission of the agreement. That is what is best for Americans.”
05.26.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced the Purple Heart Heroes Act of 2017, which would grant every recipient of the Purple Heart and their dependents access to Department of Defense commissaries and Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) facilities. “These heroes and their families deserve our utmost gratitude,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It is our duty as a nation to not only say that we appreciate their brave service, but also to enact policies demonstrating that gratitude. This simple action would make Purple Heart recipients and their families’ lives a little easier while costing taxpayers nothing.” Commissaries are grocery/department stores on military installations that sell food and some household items. MWR facilities offer a range of services on bases, including libraries, outdoor recreation, dining, golf courses, and sports and fitness centers. The Purple Heart is the oldest honor that members of our military are given and it is awarded to those who have been wounded or died in combat fighting for the United States. Since the modern incarnation of the award was established in 1932, roughly 1.8 million members of the military have received the Purple Heart. The Military Order of the Purple Heart has endorsed the Purple Heart Heroes Act of 2017.
05.26.2017	In the wake of the recent intolerable treatment of a United Airlines passenger and other unacceptable incidents on commercial flights, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is introducing the Airline Consumer Protection Act (ACPA). The bill requires airlines to provide better service, accommodations, and guarantees of timely arrival for all airline passengers. “Flying commercial airlines has become an all-too-often unpleasant experience,” said Rep. Lipinski. “While United and other airlines recently have taken some laudable steps to improve their treatment of passengers, we must do more to provide the flying public with greater protections and service guarantees. When flights are overbooked, computer systems crash, or other problems occur where the airline is at fault, passengers are left with little recourse and few options to get to their destination. This bill would make the overall flying experience less worrisome, and would result in greater certainty for passengers arriving at their destinations in a timely manner and how they will be treated when there are delays.” The main provisions of the Airline Consumer Protection Act are: First, mandatory procedures for airlines to follow to accommodate passengers on another airline's flight should their scheduled flight be delayed for reasons within the airline's control. If the delay exceeds four hours and the airline cannot rebook the passenger on their airline, they must seek flights on another airline to get the passenger to their destination, a process called “interlining.” Some airlines already do this, but it is not universally used by all commercial airlines and some will only do it if a passenger makes a special request. Second, in the case of significant delays that are the fault of the airline, the ACPA would require airlines to provide meal vouchers, and - for overnight delays - hotel accommodations or cash equivalents. This provision would also stipulate that airlines assure access to restrooms and medical support should passengers be delayed in nighttime, diminished-service settings. Third, as we have witnessed multiple times in recent years, the failure of an airline’s computer system can bring down their entire national network and render passengers across the nation stuck at airports for prolonged delays until the computer networks are restored. Over the last two years, network disruptions have occurred no less than 35 times, stranding millions. In order to spur airlines to solve this problem, the ACPA takes three steps: Requires each airline to submit a plan to the FAA detailing how they will manage their passengers in the case of network failure and their efforts to assure redundancy and resilience of their networks to prevent any failures or disruptions from occurring. Requires a Government Accountability Office audit of airline computer networks and an examination of the most common causes of failures or disruptions. Establishes a government-industry working group to create best practices for the management of airline computer networks and disruption/failure mitigation and response. Finally, the ACPA includes language from a bill Lipinski introduced last Congress that prevents airlines from charging a fee to change flights if an aircraft’s bathroom isn’t working. “As three million Americans take to the skies this Memorial Day Weekend, they should not have a sense of anxiety as they head to the airport, worried about their flight,” said Lipinski. “Airlines move millions of Americans daily in a safe fashion and mostly on time, but problems continue to occur. The measures of the ACPA – if enacted into law – will help protect airline passengers and hopefully give them more peace of mind as they travel.”
05.24.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today: “Much like the original American Health Care Act (AHCA), the independent Congressional Budget Office analysis for this version of H.R. 1628 shows that millions more Americans would be uninsured and out-of-pocket costs would increase for millions more. During the first two years of the bill, out-of-pocket costs and premiums would go up by as much as 25 percent. After that, costs would decline for young adults, but in many states costs for older Americans would continue to rise. In addition, state-by-state waivers would likely result in a patchwork of standards for health insurance coverage, varying costs, and growing age-cost discrepancies. In some states it could become increasingly difficult for those with pre-existing conditions to purchase health insurance as protections assuring coverage and the same costs for all are no longer guaranteed. “I maintain my strong opposition to the AHCA. Once this bill fails in the Senate, I call on my House Republican colleagues to come back to the table and negotiate ways to make the ACA work better for everyone, especially working families.”
05.24.2017	U.S. Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Mike Quigley (IL-5) and U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) announced today that Metra will receive $20,168,000 from the U.S. Department of Transportation for implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC) safety technology on its Milwaukee North and West lines. PTC is a federally mandated computerized system that prevents certain types of train-to-train collisions, helps avoid derailments and other accidents caused by excessive speed, and increases safety for rail workers. “This much-needed grant for Metra is great news,” said Lipinski. “Representing a district with a large number of rail lines, I have always made rail safety a top priority on the Railroad Subcommittee. In 2008, I included language in a bill to create the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to help railroads install life-saving PTC more quickly. Unfortunately, Congress never fully-funded this program and commuter railroads like Metra were not able to implement PTC. Last Congress, I joined with Rep. Quigley on a bill to reauthorize the grant program so that Metra could get federal help to install this critical safety technology.” “Implementation of Positive Train Control is a vital step in ensuring our rail systems are as safe and reliable as possible,” said Quigley. “Metra plays such an important role in the Chicagoland region, and this much-needed funding will help guarantee that one of the busiest commuter rail systems in the nation continues to provide for residents. It will also help drive additional economic activity and further solidify Chicago’s role as a leader in innovative transportation.” “Metra has more track than any commuter rail system in the country and 150,000 daily passengers,” said Durbin. “Positive Train Control is critical to the safety of these passengers. This funding will greatly help Metra meet its goal and move forward with full PTC operability.”
05.24.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today: “If approved, President Trump's budget would decimate funding for too many programs important to our children, future, economy, and neighbors that need help the most. “Trump’s budget would compromise the short and long-term health of our nation, especially for those individuals and families that are living paycheck to paycheck. While investments in education, infrastructure, and innovation set the foundation for our future growth, many of these programs face significant cuts, if not outright termination, under this budget. It doubles down on Medicaid cuts proposed in the American Health Care Act (AHCA) by calling for per capita caps or block grants and $610B in Medicaid cuts over ten years. The National Institutes of Health would see their funding cut by about 20%, which would have a significant impact on research into lifesaving cures and treatments for diseases. Also, a massive 30% cut to the Environmental Protection Agency, including programs that protect the Great Lakes, would certainly have a long-range impact on our public health and the land, water, and air we rely on. “Instead of investing in our future and boosting our economy, the Trump budget also cuts and eliminates many job-creating programs. It guts the Highway Trust Fund by nearly $100 billion over 10 years, eliminates TIGER grants (which have in the past funded multiple transit projects in Chicago), and significantly reduces funding for the transit programs many CTA, Metra, and PACE riders rely on. The budget also undermines innovation and scientific research programs, including funding cuts for the National Science Foundation by about $800 million, Energy Department Office of Science by over 16% (which is the account that funds national labs, including Argonne and Fermi), and eliminates funding for ARPA-E (which advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private-sector investment). It also slashes funding for the Small Business Administration and would eliminate the Economic Development Administration, which directly focuses on private sector job creation. “In addition, the President’s budget seems to go to great lengths to hurt hard-working middle-class families, cutting education-related programs that allow individuals to further themselves in ways their parents only dreamed about. The President’s plan cuts student loans, financial aid, and repayment programs by a total of $143 billion over the next 10 years, raising students’ costs to attend or finish their degree, and he reduces our nation’s commitment to public pre-kindergarten education by more than $9 billion. “And while the budget invests heavily in the defense of our nation, it undercuts that goal with a 28% cut to the State Department, which will have a significant impact on our ability to advance and protect America’s interests in the world. Our nation’s security depends on effective pairing of defense and diplomacy, and these cuts undermine our ability to work with allies to assure global and national security. My constituents and all Americans deserve much better than this budget.”
05.23.2017	Today, the co-chairs of the fiscally responsible Blue Dog Coalition - Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Jim Costa (D-CA), and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) - issued the following statement on President Trump’s budget: “The Blue Dogs have a strong history of influencing the budget debate in Congress with a bipartisan approach and commonsense solutions. We will continue working across the aisle, leading the way to pursue fiscally-responsible policies that balance our budget and reduce our unsustainable debt. “Real solutions that create economic growth demand a budget proposal with realistic growth assumptions and accurate accounting. Developing a budget that is right for America should not be done in a partisan way. Republicans and Democrats must work together. That’s what the American people expect of us: to do our jobs and govern. We look forward to working with our Republican and Democratic colleagues to find a long-term, comprehensive solution that responsibly balances America’s budget.”
05.18.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today after the Trump Administration officially announced its intention to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “I’m pleased the NAFTA deal is finally being renegotiated, but this step is only the beginning of the process. We must make sure that the Administration restructures the agreement in a way that will ultimately give a much-needed boost to middle-class Americans, rather than just more breaks for powerful multinational corporations. “As a blueprint for this and all future trade negotiations, I believe the Administration should follow the principles included in the ‘21st Century Workers’ Bill of Rights,’ which I helped introduce along with Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4). These principles include the right to unionize, protection of Buy American laws, environmental safeguards, a dispute resolution process that does not undermine American sovereignty (which was contained in the Trans-Pacific Partnership), and strong country-of-origin regulations. “Bad trade deals have cost millions of good-paying middle-class jobs because these agreements were negotiated to help multinational corporations instead of American workers. It is time to change that.”
05.17.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today, the Department of Justice named former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special counsel to investigate Russian interference in the election and possible coordination with the Trump campaign. Director Mueller is a distinguished and respected lawyer and public servant, and this appears to be a positive step. However, we must assure that he is afforded the independence, resources, and latitude necessary to fully investigate all possible Russian connections to Trump’s campaign, as well as assess the circumstances of former FBI Director Jim Comey’s firing, the allegations of obstruction of justice related to the firing of Michael Flynn, and the recent questionable release of highly sensitive intelligence to Russia. “It is also important that all ongoing investigations continue. In addition, a special independent commission should be established to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election. In January I signed on as a co-sponsor of the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which would establish such a commission, and today I was one of the first Representatives to sign the discharge petition to attempt to compel the House to take up this bill. Just as after the 9-11 attacks, we need an independent investigation to know what happened so we can give the American people confidence in our election process.”
05.15.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced the Apprenticeship Improvement Act of 2017 (H.R. 2377) to help expand the use of pre-apprenticeship programs. This legislation would amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to include pre-apprenticeship programs, which would allow U.S. Department of Labor funds currently distributed to states to be used to help reimburse sponsors of pre-apprenticeship programs in the same manner as they do sponsors of apprenticeship programs. Apprenticeships are a commonly used workforce training model that combines on-the-job experience with classroom instruction. Registered apprenticeship programs are those that have been certified by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship and/or with the state’s apprenticeship agency. Participants in a Registered Apprenticeship program can expect the typical apprenticeship experience but are ensured a wage, a full-time position, and an industry-wide recognized credential upon successful completion of the program. The average starting wage for former registered apprentices is $50,000. “Pre-apprenticeship programs provide potential applicants with the chance to see all that apprenticeships have to offer,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Participants receive hands-on training and complete coursework designed to prepare applicants for a Registered Apprenticeship program. My bill making pre-apprenticeship programs eligible for federal funding that is already available to states will help train more people for good-paying middle-class jobs that they otherwise would not have had an opportunity to attain.” Although there is widespread political and industry support for registered apprenticeships and the apprenticeship model, a recent study conducted by the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce predicts that by 2020 there will be a shortage of roughly five million workers with postsecondary credentials in the United States. Congressman Lipinski’s legislation will help more employers entice applicants to experience their pre-apprenticeship programs, which will ultimately lead to better participation in the rewarding Registered Apprenticeship program.
05.12.2017	Today the President signed into law a bill introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) in the House and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL) in the Senate that nullifies a recent U.S. Department of Transportation rule that would have delayed transportation projects, undermined local control, and hurt job growth. The rule, finalized in January, would have required Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) - groups that are charged with administering federal transportation funding based on a regional long-term planning process - to consolidate with nearby MPOs or develop a single, unified long-range plan. Forcing MPOs to merge with other MPOs in the vicinity, even across state lines, would cause significant delays and disruptions in getting important transportation projects completed. Locally, thisrule would have required an MPO bigger than the state of Massachusetts, representing over 11 million people and encompassing 21 counties and over 520 townships and municipalities in three states, stretching from southern Wisconsin to northern Indiana. “With so many local transportation projects that need to get done, we could not allow the federal government to put another obstacle in the way,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I'm happy we were able to get this important bill for local transportation signed into law, and I am hopeful that this bipartisan action will pave the way for more cooperation when it comes to fixing our nation's infrastructure. I look forward to continuing to work with Sen. Duckworth to improve our transportation system in northeastern Illinois.”
05.11.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has named Lockport Township High School Sophomore Emma Rarick as the Third District’s winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Lipinski made a surprise appearance at the school’s Spring Art Show to announce that Emma had won the competition. The Homer Glen resident’s acrylic painting, entitled “Show Your True Colors,” overlays a vibrant color wheel over the powerful image of a tiger. The painting will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year alongside the winning pieces from congressional districts from across the country, and Emma will receive two round-trip tickets for the exhibition opening this summer in Washington, D.C. “It is always difficult to choose one piece of artwork as the best and this year was no different,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Emma’s beautiful painting demonstrated great artistic talent and was really eye-catching. Thank you to Emma and all the students and schools that participated in this year’s competition. Emma, her art teachers, and her family should be very proud.” “At the art show I also had the opportunity to meet and thank many of the dedicated art teachers at Lockport Township High School,” Lipinski continued. “I want to thank all of our art teachers for the dedication that they show to their students and the arts.” Runners-up who will have their artwork displayed in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year are: Laura Cahill, of LaGrange, Lyons Township HS; Rebecca Bailey, of Lemont, Lemont HS; Christian Adanza, of Orland Hills, Victor J. Andrew HS; Abigail Joritz, of Chicago, Chicago Christian HS; and Grace Clark, of Chicago, Marist HS. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of high school students in their districts.
05.10.2017	Today, Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) visited with apprentices from Aon in Chicago and announced their bipartisan bill to reinvigorate America’s apprenticeship programs. They recently reintroduced the Leveraging and Energizing America’s Apprenticeship Programs (LEAP) Act (H.R. 2399), which uses tax incentives to encourage more companies to offer apprenticeship programs. “Apprenticeships provide highly valuable opportunities to combine learning in the classroom with learning on the job while earning a paycheck,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “If we can get more people into apprenticeships, we can make a great difference in their lives while also helping businesses find the skilled employees they need. I am very impressed with Aon’s apprenticeship program and their apprentices, and the LEAP Act will help more businesses follow their lead.” “Reducing college debt has been a focus of mine since coming to Congress and apprenticeships can help with this,” said Rep. Davis. “For example, the apprentices at Aon learn valuable workplace skills while also attending college classes to complete an associate’s degree. At the end of the program, these young men and women have a job and a college degree that didn’t require any student loans. We want more companies to utilize apprenticeships, not only to help reduce college debt, but also to help retrain our workforce. The LEAP Act will help us accomplish this important, bipartisan goal.” “Apprenticeships are a proven model for training and building a career,” said Bridget Gainer, Vice President of Global Affairs at Aon. “It's time to make apprenticeships look more like today's economy.” Key details of the LEAP Act include: Offering a federal tax credit for hiring new apprentices that are registered with the U.S. Department of Labor or a state apprenticeship agency. Addressing the fact that the average age of apprentices is currently as high as 29 by offering a tax credit of $1,500 for apprentices under 25. The tax credit for apprentices over 25 is $1,000. Being fully paid for through an offset: cutting printing waste by barring the federal government from producing publications that are available online with an exception for seniors, Medicare recipients, and communities with limited internet access. Aon apprenticeship details: Aon created an apprenticeship program and has urged peers across the industry to follow their lead in order to close the training gap. Apprentices are trained in account management, client support, financial analysis, and technology. Aon will hire 25 apprentices each year for the next four years. Apprentices are paid for full-time work, even though some of their time is spent in class. Participants get an education – graduating with an associate’s degree from Harold Washington College, which Aon covers the cost. Apprentices will graduate with industry-recognized apprenticeship experience, in addition to an associate’s degree. Sens. Tim Scott (R-SC) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) have reintroduced companion legislation in the Senate.
05.09.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today: “As I said at my Town Hall Meeting tonight, President Trump’s firing of FBI Director Comey is very troubling. It is now even more important that we do everything possible to learn about Russian interference in the 2016 election, possible collusion with the Trump campaign, and the actions and communications of former national security advisor Mike Flynn. In March we learned that the FBI is investigating members of the Trump campaign for improper dealings with Russian intelligence authorities during the election. We must make sure that Director Comey’s firing was in no way a consequence of this investigation, and that his departure does not interfere with this investigation. “In March, I called for an independent commission to look into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Today I reiterate my plea for such a bipartisan investigative commission. This is not about re-litigating the election; this is about protecting our republic going forward. We must make sure that we do everything we can to help ensure confidence in our elections and to find out whether anyone in the Trump campaign was involved in colluding with Russia. This should not be about politics, it should be about making sure our nation is secure, and about protecting and strengthening our democratic institutions.”
05.04.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today, I voted against the House Republicans’ repeal and replace healthcare legislation, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). This version of the bill is even worse than the original version released last month. As I said at that time, the AHCA will make healthcare less affordable and accessible for millions of Americans, including thousands of residents in my district. We need to make the Affordable Care Act (ACA) work better, not replace it with a bill that makes Americans worse off. “According to the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) analysis of the original AHCA bill, 24 million fewer Americans would have health insurance in ten years if it became law. Out-of-pocket costs would rise for millions more. The impact of the bill passed today would be even worse because the amendments that were added eliminate critical protections contained in the ACA. For example, insurance companies would no longer be prohibited from charging individuals with pre-existing conditions more for their coverage, meaning that the cost of coverage would be out of reach for the most vulnerable Americans. “Unfortunately, we don’t have any analysis of the impact of the bill voted on today because it was rushed to the House floor less than 24 hours after the final text was revealed. This meant that the CBO – and everyone else – had no time to analyze it. This type of action by congressional leaders is one of the biggest reasons that most Americans are fed up with Congress. In addition to undermining healthcare access, the bill also includes direct tax cuts for health insurance companies and their executives, as well as tax cuts of about $50,000 a year for those who make more than $1 million. This is a clear indicator of where priorities lie in this bill. “While I did not vote for the Affordable Care Act in 2010, I recognize its importance in providing healthcare for countless families across our nation and I cannot support this Republican proposal that would undermine this progress. I know that the ACA needs to be fixed, and that for many Americans premiums and out-of-pocket costs are too high. But rather than casting the whole law out and jeopardizing healthcare for millions of Americans, I’ve been working in a bipartisan manner over the last seven years to make changes to the ACA to rein in healthcare costs and increase access so that it works better for families and small businesses. It’s time for Washington to come out of the deep trenches and join me in a bipartisan effort to fix the ACA and make our healthcare system better. We owe it to the American people to do just that.”
05.03.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting on Tuesday, May 9th, from 6 to 8 p.m., at the Kennedy High School Auditorium, located at the corner of 56th Street and Narragansett Avenue in Chicago. Staff from the Congressman’s office will be available beginning at 5 p.m. to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. During the meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions about federal issues. “I encourage all residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative, I continue to strive to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve. I look forward to seeing you at this meeting.” If you are unable to attend the meeting, Lipinski’s constituent offices in Chicago, Oak Lawn, Lockport, and Orland Park are open year round to meet your needs. If you have any questions, please call 773-948-6223.
05.02.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today after questioning airline executives during a Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Hearing: “United's recent change in policy that they will pay up to $10,000 to encourage passengers to give up their seat on a flight is a step in the right direction. So is Southwest's decision to stop overbooking flights. I call on the other airline companies to follow, and they all must take additional steps. Passengers must be better protected. We must prod, regulate, and/or legislate to make sure this happens. Before 1978, airlines were heavily regulated. If airlines won't protect their customers, then maybe we need to bring back some of those regulations. “Following my questioning at today’s hearing, I believe that airlines need to change their policies on interlining - putting passengers on another airline's flight. Passengers should be put on another airline if the one they purchased their ticket on cannot get them to their destination in a timely manner by fault of the airline. This includes, but is not limited to, involuntary denied boarding. This should be automatic. They should not have to ask, which is what I was told the policy is right now. If airlines do not do this, I think we need to re-institute rules requiring them to do so. At this time of high profit for airlines - reported as 15.3B in 2016 during today’s hearing - it’s time that they step up and treat passengers better or Congress will have to act.”
04.27.2017	Today, the House passed the Senate companion of a bill introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) that nullifies a recent U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) rule that would have delayed transportation projects, undermined local control, and hurt job growth. The rule, finalized in January, would have had a negative impact locally by requiring the governors and other leaders in Indiana and Wisconsin to approve transportation projects in northeastern Illinois. The DOT’s rule would have required Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) ? groups, such as the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP), that are charged with administering federal transportation funding based on a regional long-term planning process ? to consolidate with nearby MPOs or develop a single, unified long-range plan. “Forcing MPOs to merge with other MPOs in the vicinity, even across state lines, would cause significant delays and disruptions in getting important transportation projects done,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Mayors, planners, and transit agencies from across the country have reached out to me over the past few months to express their opposition to this rule, and it’s opposed by every major trade association representing the professionals who staff MPOs around the country.” Lipinski's bill was approved by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee last month. The bill passed today in the House is an identical bill authored by Illinois U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth that passed the Senate last month. This action allows the bill to go directly to the President's desk, where it is expected to be signed into law. “I want to thank Senator Duckworth and my colleagues who co-sponsored this bill,” said Lipinski. “With so many local transportation projects that need to get done, it would have made no sense to put another obstacle in the way. I am hopeful that this bipartisan action will pave the way for more cooperation when it comes to fixing our infrastructure.”
04.27.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today: “I welcome United’s new passenger policy as progress in improving the treatment of their flying customers. I encourage all airlines to follow United’s lead and institute policies such as these and others that better protect their passengers. “However, I am hopeful that this is not the end of improvements by airlines in their treatment of passengers. I still have a number of questions that I intend to ask airline representatives, including United’s CEO Oscar Munoz, who will testify at next week’s hearing before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “As a senior member of the Aviation Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will continue to work to ensure better treatment of airline passengers. I look forward to next week’s hearing so we can learn more about what further actions need to be taken.”
04.18.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement: “I'm happy that the President is issuing an order today directing an examination of how we can strengthen Buy American laws to ensure that the federal government spends tax dollars on American products. But he doesn't have to wait seven months for this review to be completed before taking action. He can immediately start helping American workers by getting congressional Republicans to pass a bill that I introduced earlier this year. “My bipartisan Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 904, comprehensively changes Buy America and Buy American laws to close loopholes in current law and extend domestic content protections to more federal programs. Our tax dollars should be putting Americans to work, not those in foreign countries. Congress should act on this job-creating legislation now.”
04.17.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is now accepting submissions from all high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C., in June for the exhibition opening. Runners-up will have their artwork displayed prominently in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year. All submissions must include the Student Information and Release Form. Submission Guidelines: · All artwork must be two-dimensional · Each piece can be no larger than 26” x 26” x 4” including the frame · If the winning piece is not framed, the artist will be required to frame the artwork within the sizing guidelines · Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds · Each entry must be completely original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws · Winning artwork will be on display in Washington for one year and will not be available to be returned to the winner during that period · Accepted media for artwork are as follows: o Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. o Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, ink, markers o Collage o Prints: lithographs, silk screen, block prints o Mixed Media: use of more than two media such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. o Computer-Generated Art o Photography All entries must be received at one of the Congressman’s district offices, located in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, and Orland Park, by Monday, May 1, 2017. If you have any questions, please contact the Congressman’s Chicago office at (773) 948-6223, or go online to lipinski.house.gov. The winning artists will be notified by Tuesday, May 9, 2017.
04.13.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement: “Millions of people around the world saw the unsettling videos of a United Airlines passenger being forcibly removed from a plane at O’Hare Airport to make room for airline crew members on a flight. Clearly, United, the Chicago Department of Aviation, and others failed to act appropriately. Many of us who fly frequently have experienced situations related to overbooking, but obviously how it was handled in this circumstance was unacceptable, and no passenger should ever be put through what Dr. Dao was. “It appears that the boarding system broke down at many levels, and I am continuing to receive updates from the U.S. Department of Transportation, United, and the Chicago Department of Aviation about what occurred, what they are planning to do to prevent it from occurring again, and who will be held accountable. No passenger should be forced to give up a seat on a flight on which they purchased a ticket, much less dragged off a plane. “As a senior member of the Aviation Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I have fought for and won better consumer protections for airline passengers. I will once again be working on the behalf of passengers to make sure that what occurred last weekend never happens again.”
04.07.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “The recent chemical weapons attack on civilians by the Assad regime in Syria was reprehensible and a war crime. Last night’s missile strikes by the United States shows the Syrian government and its patrons that the use of chemicals weapons, especially against children and unarmed civilians, is unacceptable and will not go unanswered. “If President Trump seeks to further escalate U.S. involvement in the Syrian conflict, then he must come to Congress with a plan and seek congressional approval. We owe it to our brave men and women in the U.S. armed forces before we put them into harm’s way.”
03.31.2017	This week, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure unanimously approved Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bipartisan bill (H.R. 1346) that nullifies a recent U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) final rule that hurts job growth and delays infrastructure projects by requiring governors and leaders from nearby states and regions to approve transportation projects in the Chicago area and across the nation. The DOT’s rule would require Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) - groups, such as the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP), that are charged with administering federal transportation funding based on a regional long-term planning process - to consolidate with nearby MPOs or develop a single, unified long-range plan. The rule is broadly unpopular and received almost no support during the public comment period. Forcing MPOs to merge with other MPOs in the vicinity, even across state lines, would cause significant jurisdictional issues. In the Chicago area alone, this new MPO would be bigger than the state of Massachusetts, representing over 11 million people and encompassing 21 counties and over 520 townships and municipalities in three states, stretching from southern Wisconsin to northern Indiana. “MPOs serve a unique planning role in our nation’s transportation system,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “They bridge the gap between planning at the state and local levels to focus on regional priorities and deliver projects. The DOT’s rule would stifle the voice of local elected officials, make public participation difficult, and cause serious planning challenges.” The new rule also adds significant additional legal and administrative requirements that would only serve as a barrier to the collaborative planning already being implemented by states and MPOs today. Congressman Lipinski has heard from mayors, planners, and transit agencies from across the country who have expressed their opposition to this rule, and it is opposed by every major trade association representing the professionals who staff MPOs around the country. A companion bill to Lipinski’s - authored by Illinois U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth -passed the Senate by unanimous consent on March 8. “I want to thank Senator Duckworth, Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster, Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio, and my colleagues who co-sponsored this bill,” said Lipinski. “I expect that it will soon be signed into law.”
03.24.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Today, I was going to vote against the House Republican healthcare bill, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). For seven years I have fought to make fixes to the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) to make it work better for America’s middle-class families, but I have consistently opposed repeal without a better replacement. Unfortunately, this replacement would have made our healthcare system significantly worse, harming tens of millions of Americans, including some of our most vulnerable. It is good for the American people that this bill has been stopped. “The Congressional Budget Office analysis indicates that 24 million fewer Americans would have health insurance under the AHCA and out-of-pocket costs would go up significantly for older Americans. Further last-minute changes made in the middle of last night mean that Americans’ insurance coverage would be worse. On top of all this, the bill repeals a cap on the amount a health insurance company can deduct from their taxes for the compensation of executives, resulting in a transfer of $400 million from American taxpayers to these companies and executives. I offered an amendment to strike this provision of the bill on behalf of American taxpayers, but Republicans would not even allow a vote on my amendment. “It’s time for Republicans to sit down with Democrats and make the fixes to our healthcare system that will help rein in the costs of healthcare and expand coverage without diminishing care. The American people want politicians to stop playing politics with their healthcare and start problem-solving; it is about time Washington listens.”
03.21.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “The Republicans’ American Health Care Act (AHCA) does not help the middle class or make the healthcare system in the U.S. better, but it does have a tax giveaway for health insurance companies and their top executives. The Republican healthcare bill repeals a provision in current law that limits how much health insurance companies can deduct from their federal taxes for executive pay. Right now, health insurance companies can only deduct up to $500,000 of compensation per executive. Repealing this limit means that taxpayers would lose about $400 million in taxes from insurance companies over the next ten years according to the Congressional Budget Office. Health insurance companies have a right to decide how much they will pay their executives, but hard-working middle-class families should not be subsidizing this pay. This is bad policy, and I have offered an amendment to strike this break from the AHCA. “Of course, this amendment does not fix the deep and fundamental problems with the Republicans’ healthcare bill, but it should serve as a reminder about where Congress’ priorities should be. People from across our nation are worried about rising premiums and out-of-pocket costs that make it hard to get the care they need. Congress must prioritize real healthcare reform and focus on protecting middle-class families, instead of granting expensive corporate giveaways.”
03.17.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “President Trump's lopsided budget is the wrong direction for our country. If approved, it would gut essential agencies and programs that protect the environment, further scientific exploration and research, repair and enhance our infrastructure, improve education for everyone, strengthen our economy, help people in our community get back on their feet, and build critical relationships at home and around the world. This budget is wrong for America and would hurt middle-class Americans in the Third District and across the nation. I will fight to make sure this budget never becomes law.”
03.16.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “After a careful review of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of the Republican healthcare bill, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), I will be opposing the bill. This proposal, which partially repeals the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and provides a limited replacement, will make healthcare less affordable and accessible for millions of Americans, including thousands of residents in my district. “According to the CBO, 24 million fewer Americans would have health coverage in ten years if the AHCA became law. I am also concerned with the potential increases in out-of-pocket spending for hard-working American families under the AHCA. Overall, the Republicans’ bill will not improve healthcare but instead make Americans worse off. For seven years I have been fighting to make changes to the 2010 health reform law so that it works for middle-class Americans. It’s time for Washington to join me in my bipartisan efforts to fix the ACA and rein in the costs of healthcare.”
03.16.2017	Later this month, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting three Senior Fairs in the Third Congressional District. “I encourage district residents to come to my upcoming Senior Fairs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The fairs will give my constituents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from my staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services for seniors.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming Senior Fairs are as follows: Friday, March 24 10:00 a.m. – noon Romeoville Recreation Center 900 West Romeo Road, Romeoville Monday, March 27 10:00 a.m. – noon The Mayfield banquet facility 6072 South Archer Avenue, Chicago Friday, March 31 10:00 a.m. – noon Moraine Valley Community College 9000 West College Parkway, Palos Hills For more information, visit lipinski.house.gov or call 773-948-6223.
03.14.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) held his annual “All-American Boy and Girl Award” Ceremony for 7th and 8th grade students last night at Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills. One hundred finalists were selected from over one thousand applicants to appear before a panel of judges for a formal interview. Following the interviews, first, second, and third place winners were chosen in each category. “We had another tremendous group of young men and women from across the district to choose from this year,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “I want to congratulate all of our winners as well as their families, teachers, coaches, clergy, friends, and others who have helped them along the way. The finalists are all well-rounded individuals, working hard in and out of the classroom, and making a difference in their communities. I urge them to continue applying themselves in school and contributing to their communities. They give me hope for the future.” The top students in each grade are: • Seventh Grade Girls: Bridget Hickey, St. Gerald School (1); Cheri Michalek, St. Dennis Catholic School (2); Isabel Vazquez, Elden D. Finley Jr. High School (3 tie); Sara Chiappetta, St. Catherine of Alexandria School (3 tie) • Seventh Grade Boys: John Beecher, Everest Academy (1); Matthew Ardaugh, St. Joseph School (2); Christopher Noga, St. Cletus School (3) • Eighth Grade Girls: Hailey Murray, Mount Greenwood Elementary School (1); Anne Gainer, St. Catherine of Alexander School (2); Lexi Anaya, Bridgeport Catholic Academy (3) • Eighth Grade Boys: Noah Wehner, St. John of the Cross School (1); Cody Butenhoff, A. Vito Martinez Middle School (2); David Quintana, John H. Kinzie Elementary School (3 tie); Eljay Raya, St. Barbara Catholic School (3 tie) Each finalist was awarded a certificate for their hard work and superior essay. The 14 winners were given a plaque.
03.07.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “Last night, House Republicans released the text of bills that will partially repeal and partially replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA). I have been working for the past seven years to fix the ACA and make sure that it works for the middle class while not piling up debt on American taxpayers. Upon a quick review of the bills, I am concerned that they will not help make healthcare more affordable, but less affordable and accessible. I am also frustrated with the rush to committee consideration of these bills without knowing how much they will cost American taxpayers and how many people will likely lose access to health insurance if they become law. “While further analysis is needed, the Republican healthcare proposal appears likely to increase out-of-pocket spending on premiums and medical bills for many hard-working middle-class families. At a time when many Americans are speaking out about burdensome and unsustainable premiums and healthcare costs, this simply is the wrong way to go. Egregiously, the bills do this while also giving a tax break to insurers for their CEO pay. Congress should not be providing handouts to wealthy executives while making healthcare less affordable for average American families. “After nearly seven years of claiming that they can provide for a comprehensive replacement to the ACA, Republicans are proposing only a partial repeal and replacement that leaves important questions for later. For example, they have still not explained what they will do to ensure plans are of high quality and treat customers fairly when they get ill. Without answers to these questions, it is impossible to fully evaluate the current partial proposal in context. “When the ACA was passed in 2010, there were concerns that the impact of the bill was not fully understood even though it was going to have a very large impact on so many Americans. Before House Republicans move forward with these bills, at the very least they should get a score from the Congressional Budget Office so we know how much this proposal will cost and how many people will (or won't) have health coverage under the proposal. There should not be a rush to push this through. Congress and the American people need and deserve more time - and a more detailed proposal - to understand how this will impact our country. With the fiscal and literal health of the nation at stake, it would be irresponsible to support legislation with so many questions left unanswered.”
03.02.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today: “The recent reports about Attorney General Jeff Sessions are greatly disappointing and undermine his credibility. If true that he lied under oath about meetings and communications with Russian officials, at a minimum he should recuse himself from any investigation regarding Trump campaign connections with Russian officials and any other related matter. We should also explore a special prosecutor to assess his potentially false statements to Congress, as the current Justice Department cannot reliably assess this matter in an unbiased fashion.”
02.21.2017	Congressmen Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Darin LaHood (IL-18) have introduced legislation designed to make Congress work again for the American people. H. Con. Res. 28 would establish a Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress, a powerful legislative tool that Congress effectively employed three times in the 20th century to overcome legislative dysfunction. This bipartisan, bicameral committee would be tasked with analyzing suggestions from congressional experts and the general public, and then making recommendations for reforming congressional procedures so that Congress could more effectively address major issues faced by our nation. “When I was a teacher, I taught about how Congress operates, but it doesn’t take a congressional scholar to understand that the Legislative Branch is not working effectively for the American people,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Americans understand that the legislative process is not working effectively when they see Congress failing to act to address major issues until faced with a crisis; even then Congress waits until the last minute to act or sometimes even fails to act as we saw with the government shutdown a few years ago. In order to conduct the peoples’ business more effectively, Congress must streamline rules and procedures, improve efficiency in the committees and on the floor of the House and Senate, increase participation of the members in the legislative process, and encourage bipartisan cooperation. Hopefully, this Joint Committee would be a good step in creating a Congress that works for the American people.” The Joint Committee would be made up of an equal number of Democrats and Republicans, 12 members of the House and 12 members of the Senate, with a specific mandate to make recommendations across the spectrum of needed change in a timely fashion. The Joint Committee would focus on restoring Congress’ ability to fulfill its basic responsibilities, including oversight, authorizations, appropriations, legislation, and passing a budget. Specifically, the Joint Committee would first look to overhaul the legislative rules and procedures that internally dictate how Congress operates. Then it would work to empower legislators to take ownership of the legislative process, debate issues, introduce amendments, and get laws enacted. Finally, the Joint Committee would make recommendations to improve the relationship between the people and Congress. The process would be open to the public and could draw on the expertise and experiences of the private sector. “Congress must earn America’s trust back,” stated Rep. LaHood. “At this pivotal time in our nation’s history, the Legislative Branch must function effectively to address the challenges we face. No matter how good our intentions, noble our cause, or hard we work, problems won’t be solved if the institution doesn’t function. There is a plethora of reform ideas, but there is not an official mechanism to motivate Congress to evaluate those recommendations holistically, transparently, and speedily. This bill is a simple first step towards addressing the dysfunction that the American people see and what we, as Representatives, experience in Congress. Whether reform requires changes in law, like evaluating the budget process, changes in procedure such as committee structure, or changes in the operation between the House, the Senate, and the White House, we need to take a hard look at what systemic improvements are necessary to overcome gridlock, to govern effectively, and restore America’s confidence in our first branch of our government.” Joint Committees on Congress have been created at crucial periods before, and have yielded real results. The Joint Committee of 1945, 1965, and 1992 each ultimately resulted in necessary reforms that were adopted in the form of Legislative Reorganization Acts. These Joint Committees were formed at quarter century intervals, and it’s been 25 years since the last Joint Committee convened. The measure already enjoys a broad coalition of support from former members of Congress, bipartisan groups focused on congressional reform, and other interested stakeholders. “The formation of a Joint Committee to reform Congress is a great step toward eliminating the gridlock and hyper partisanship that has infected Congress for too long and prevented our country from moving forward,” said Mark Strand, president of the Congressional Institute. “Through the reforms a Joint Committee will be empowered to recommend, the bill-making process can be opened up to more lawmakers so they can truly fulfill their duties as legislators. A Joint Committee can also help repair the broken budget process and revitalize the standing committees in the U.S. House and Senate so they function as intended. Significant reforms to the rules and structures will allow lawmakers to better serve their constituents and give America the Congress it deserves.” “We welcome the introduction of the Congress of Tomorrow resolution as the starting point of a discussion on restoring the legislative abilities of Congress,” said the Bipartisan Policy Center. “We look forward to working with Reps. LaHood and Lipinski to ensure its prompt consideration.” “It is time for Congress to re-examine its structure, processes, and operations through a Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress,” stated the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF). “For nearly 40 years the CMF has conducted a significant amount of research with congressional offices, Members, staff, and institutional offices. A thoughtful, bipartisan effort aimed at improving the institution would result in a better Congress, better laws, and better service to the American people. CMF applauds Representatives Darin LaHood and Dan Lipinski for calling for a Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress.”
02.17.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced a resolution in support of National Engineers Week, which is celebrated every year during the week of George Washington’s birthday. As one of just a dozen engineers in Congress, Lipinski introduced the resolution in order to highlight the critical role that engineers play in our nation and the world, and to help get more young people interesting in engineering. “Engineering is problem solving, and we have a lot of problems in our nation that engineers can help solve,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “One of the main purposes of National Engineers Week is to make science, technology, and engineering come alive for kids and encourage them to pursue careers in these fields. I applaud all engineers for what they contribute to our nation, and I especially want to thank everyone involved in the various activities that help to inspire the engineers of tomorrow who will devise solutions to many of the problems we face today.” National Engineers Week focuses on celebrating how engineers make a difference in our world, increasing public dialogue about the need for more engineers, and bringing engineering to life for children, educators, and parents. In preparation for next week's events, Congressman Lipinski hosted and spoke this week at the “Introduce a Girl to Engineering” program in Washington, D.C. During the event, he received an award from the Women in Engineering ProActive Network (WEPAN) organization for his support of engineers and programs designed to get more girls interested in pursuing a career in STEM-related fields. WEPAN is the leading champion in North America for leveraging research and best practices to propel the inclusion of women in the field of engineering. During Engineers Week, Lipinski will be visiting engineers at local plants in the district, speaking with students about engineering, and addressing the annual Chicagoland Engineering Awards Dinner, where the Co-founder and Chief Technology Officer of 3D Systems, Charles W. Hull, will be receiving the prestigious Washington Award.
02.16.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement: “Russia is a direct threat to our NATO allies in the Baltics and in Poland, as well as a threat to peace and stability in the entire western world. In the recent past, Russia has continued its aggression in Ukraine, sought to interfere in elections in the U.S. and other countries, deployed treaty-violating nuclear cruise missiles, slaughtered innocent civilians in Syria, and grown increasingly close to Iran. So former National Security Advisor Mike Flynn’s lying about a conversation with the Russian ambassador about U.S. sanctions, as well as reports about contacts between Russian intelligence and Trump campaign personnel, are of great concern and need to be fully investigated. Early in January I cosponsored H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which would create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate Russian attempts to influence, interfere with, or sow distrust in elections for public office. “Recent events also demonstrate the great need for President Trump to make clear that the U.S. will continue to seek to deter Russia’s provocative and risky behavior and to reassure our allies in NATO and elsewhere. We must effectively counter Moscow’s attempts at influence with American strength and resolve, certainly not with a weak approach to President Putin or with any relief from sanctions. We should maintain, if not strengthen, our sanctions on Russia until we see demonstrable improvement in their behavior. That is why I am cosponsoring the Russian Sanctions Review Act, which gives Congress the ability to block President Trump from relaxing sanctions on Russia.”
02.14.2017	Today, the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s Subcommittee on Research and Technology held a hearing titled, “Strengthening U.S. Cybersecurity Capabilities.” Ranking Member Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) opening statement for the record is below. “Thank you Chairwoman Comstock. I look forward to working with you and all of the returning and new Members of the Research & Technology Subcommittee in this new Congress. Thank you also to the distinguished panel for being here this morning to share your expertise on this important topic. “Cybersecurity has long been a priority of mine in Congress. The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014, which was signed into law, began as a bill that Rep. McCaul and I introduced in 2009. As pointed out in the CSIS report, cybersecurity is a topic on which nearly every Committee in Congress has something to contribute. [On one hand, this presents a challenge to developing and enacting comprehensive and coherent policies. On the other hand, it presents an opportunity for coordinated policy making across the government to address this complex and pressing issue. “Our committee is uniquely positioned to contribute meaningfully to oversight and policy development for cybersecurity because of our jurisdiction over NIST, and our oversight responsibility for STEM education and workforce training activities across the Federal government. I understand that today’s hearing is likely just the first of several hearings on cybersecurity we will hold this Congress, and as such it is intentionally broad in scope. However, sitting before us are a few of our nation’s top experts on NIST’s role in cybersecurity and on cybersecurity education and workforce issues, so I look forward to hearing those specific areas from our witnesses. “NIST plays a central role in the security of federal information systems. The experts at NIST develop the security standards and guidelines that all other civilian federal agencies are required to implement through the Federal Information Security Modernization Act, or FISMA. Those experts also provide technical assistance to other agencies. Furthermore, NIST led the development of the Cybersecurity Framework for Critical Infrastructure, a widely adopted set of voluntary guidelines and standards for industry, and works closely with industry to help develop tools for businesses of all sizes and from all sectors to effectively implement the Framework. “There have been some calls for an expanded role for NIST, including an expanded oversight role under FISMA. These suggestions warrant careful examination. NIST is successful in its current role in large part because of its independence as a standards and technology agency, and not a regulatory or enforcement agency. Any discussion about an expanded role must be accompanied by a discussion about increasing resources. “On the topic of education and workforce, NIST leads Federal efforts through coordination of the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education, or NICE. Another agency in our jurisdiction, the National Science Foundation, supports important programs such as the CyberCorps Scholarship for Service. However, the gap between supply and demand for cybersecurity training in both the government and the private sector remains an urgent challenge. All of the best policies are meaningless without the skilled workforce to implement those policies. Increasing the recruitment and retention of cybersecurity talent in our Federal agencies is going to require new and creative thinking, as well as increased resources. It is also going to require stepping back from the disparaging rhetoric aimed lately at the civil service. Federal agencies already struggle to recruit and retain top talent from the limited pool of qualified cybersecurity professionals, especially when private sector salaries are much higher. Negative remarks, combined with a federal hiring freeze, do real damage to agencies’ recruitment and retention efforts. “Once again, I want to thank the Chairwoman for holding this hearing, and the witnesses for sharing your time and expertise with us this morning. I look forward to your testimony.”
02.07.2017	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) introduced the Buy American Improvement Act of 2017 to create American jobs, promote the domestic manufacturing industry, increase transparency and accountability in government procurement, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent in the U.S. whenever practicable. “Despite the fact that too many Americans still can’t find good jobs, the federal government continues to buy many products outside our country instead of using our hard-earned tax dollars to buy American products and hire American workers,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The Buy American Improvement Act will change that. Specifically, my bill will apply ‘Buy American’ requirements to federal spending programs that are not covered in current law and will close gaping loopholes in programs where ‘Buy American’ requirements are already law. This commonsense, bipartisan legislation is especially important now with interest from the President and the new Congress in passing a comprehensive and transformative transportation infrastructure bill.” The bill also sets domestic content standards for indirect purchases by U.S. Department of Transportation grantees, ensuring that tax dollars spent on aviation, highway, transit, and rail infrastructure will support U.S. manufacturing and mining jobs, rather than jobs in other countries. In addition, while “Buy America” has traditionally applied only to transportation projects, Lipinski’s bill would expand these requirements to a number of other federal grant programs. Lipinski’s legislation will help American companies and workers by requiring federal agencies to publicly disclose “Buy American” waivers in the Federal Register and to explain their justification for the waiver. It will also create a consolidated annual report that lists the total amount and dollar value of all foreign purchases and the number of waivers granted. This transparency will allow American companies to see where there are opportunities to sell to the federal government and put more Americans to work. “We are pleased that Congressman Lipinski is introducing legislation to increase the amount of American-made iron, steel, and manufactured products used in U.S. infrastructure,” said the Alliance for American Manufacturing - a non-profit, non-partisan partnership. ‘Buy America’ preferences create jobs and support U.S. national security. It makes no sense for the government to buy steel from China when workers in Illinois are ready to meet the challenge. Rep. Lipinski has been fighting for stronger ‘Buy America’ preferences for years and we continue to support his efforts with the Buy American Improvement Act.” Other organizations endorsing the bill include the AFL-CIO Transportation Trades Department, BlueGreen Alliance, Coalition for a Prosperous America, International Association of Machines and Aerospace Workers, Lake Carriers’ Association, Steel Manufacturers Association, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and United Steelworkers.
01.30.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has nominated 18 young men and women from the Third Congressional District for admission to the U.S. Service Academies. The nominees were honored by Lipinski for their achievement at a ceremony last Saturday at Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 in Oak Lawn. “One of my proudest duties as a congressman is helping young men and women meet their goals by nominating them for admission to our prestigious service academies,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “My office receives more than one hundred applications each year from a group of extraordinary students with a desire to be leaders who serve their country. Just to be nominated to one of our nation’s service academies is a major accomplishment and a tremendous honor. I am excited to see what the future holds for these impressive men and women.” The nominees are: U.S. Air Force Academy: Jordan Brown, of Lemont, Lemont HS Merchant Marine Academy: Jennifer Stelnicki, of Chicago, St. Ignatius College Prep U.S. Military Academy (West Point): James Beecher, of Lemont, Benet Academy; Patrick Fox, of Oak Lawn, Richards HS; Denise Hernandez, of Chicago, Lindblom Math and Science Academy; Steven Irace, of Lemont, Lemont HS; Drew Litynski, of Lockport, Lockport HS; John Sims, of Chicago, Kennedy HS U.S. Naval Academy: Charles Chan, of Chicago, UIC College Prep; Brandon Fitzpatrick, of Alsip, Marist HS; Desiree Garcia, of Chicago, Marist HS; Ryan Hammond, of Western Springs, Lyons Township HS; John Hirstein, of Western Springs, St. John's Northwestern Military Academy; Justin O’Connell, of Chicago, St. Rita HS; George Pina, of Chicago, NAPS/ Chicago Military Academy; Grace Rost, of Orland Park, Providence Catholic HS; Philp Smith, of Western Springs, Lyons Township HS; Joseph Sweeney, of Chicago, Brother Rice HS The admissions departments of the service academies make the final decision on acceptance.
01.29.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement regarding the President’s recent immigration Executive Order: “President Trump's immigration Executive Order is ill conceived and harmful to innocent individuals, especially refugees fleeing persecution. While we need policies to keep us safe, this hurts many Muslims whose help we need to fight terrorism. My offices are open to assist all individuals and families, and I have a staffer dedicated to helping constituents with immigration issues.” This statement was originally issued via Twitter, and has been reposted here.
01.24.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has introduced a resolution celebrating Catholic Schools Week and honoring the outstanding work of Catholic schools in the Chicago area and across the nation. Catholic Schools Week, which begins this year on January 29th, has been an annual event since 1974. This year’s theme is “Catholic Schools: Communities of Faith, Knowledge, and Service.” Lipinski’s resolution expresses support for “the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States” and “the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the nation.” It recognizes that Catholic schools produce academically successful students, foster a commitment to service, family, and community, and accept students from all faiths and backgrounds. “I really appreciate what a blessing it is to be educated in Catholic schools,” said Rep. Lipinski. “My own desire to go into public service was fostered by dedicated teachers, administrators, and clergy throughout my years at St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep in Chicago. In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we honor the many teachers and administrators who sacrifice so much, in most cases working for less than they could earn elsewhere. Some of my favorite memories are of teachers who ingrained in me the values of faith, knowledge, and service. I can’t thank them enough.” Schools typically observe the annual celebration week with Masses, open houses, and other activities for students, families, parishioners, and community members. During the week, Congressman Lipinski will visit several schools in the district. It is estimated that Catholic schools save Chicago area taxpayers over $1 billion annually by lowering the number of students in overburdened public schools.
01.13.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today after voting “present” on the bill to grant a waiver to General James Mattis so that he would be allowed to serve now as Secretary of Defense, instead of needing to wait seven years after retirement as is required under current law: “This was a difficult vote because of the great respect I have for General Mattis, not only because of his service as a Marine General, but also because he has great potential as a Defense Secretary during these perilous times. Before he testified yesterday in front of the Senate Armed Services Committee, he already had shown his ability to change President-elect Trump’s thinking on issues such as torture. During the Senate hearing, I was impressed by General Mattis' comments regarding the great threat that Russia poses and the need to protect Poland and the Baltic nations, stand up to Iran, work with NATO and other alliances, and strengthen our defenses. “However, the issue we were faced with in the House was whether to grant a waiver to General Mattis so he could serve as Secretary of Defense. In order to hear General Mattis’ views on the importance of civilian control of the military and to assuage any concerns about waiving the seven year waiting period for him, he was scheduled to testify before the House Armed Services Committee yesterday. Mattis agreed to testify, only to be undercut by the Trump transition team which told him not to testify. This development is very troubling. In recent history, Congress has failed to exercise its authority on too many occasions, thereby granting more power to the Executive Branch. It is a bad sign that President-elect Trump’s transition team decided to cancel General Mattis’ testimony and that the House still went ahead with the vote on the waiver. This is not a good way for Congress to begin with the new Administration. “I believe General James Mattis has the potential to be a very good Secretary of Defense, but my ‘present’ vote on the waiver is intended to send a signal that Congress must stand up for its own authority, or else we will continue to cede more power to the Executive Branch.”
01.13.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement ahead of today’s House vote on a budget resolution that is the first step in repealing Obamacare without a replacement: “I voted against the Affordable Care Act (ACA) – also known as Obamacare – because I believed that, among other problems, it would not provide the help needed by many middle-class Americans who were struggling to afford good healthcare and it would drive our nation further into debt. But as I noted at the time, the ACA did make some important improvements to health insurance access. More people were given access to health insurance, individuals with pre-existing conditions were no longer charged more for coverage, and children could stay on their parents’ insurance until they were 26. “It is important to remember that the House was forced to vote up or down on a bill written in the Senate, so the ACA never went through refinement that could have made it better. But after the bill was passed, the two parties dug their trenches. Republicans only sought to repeal the whole ACA while claiming to want to replace it. To date, they have never offered a replacement. Meanwhile, Democrats who supported the bill did not want to offer changes for fear they would be seen as admitting that the ACA wasn’t perfect. But I’ve known all along that changes were needed to make the ACA work, so I sponsored, co-sponsored, and voted for fixes more than 40 times. A few of these passed and became law, but most never did because Washington simply played politics with Americans’ healthcare. “Now for the first time since 2010 one party has control of the White House, House, and Senate. Republicans are now ready to repeal large parts of Obamacare without proposing a comprehensive, detailed replacement. I have said all along that I would consider supporting ‘repeal and replace,’ as long as the replacement is better. I will not support a replacement that takes away access, hurts those with pre-existing conditions, is a give-away to insurers and providers, or makes the middle class worse off than they are now. And I certainly do not support ‘repeal and wait.’ I have voted against full repeal of the ACA a half-dozen times over the past six years and will do so again when the House votes today on the Republican Budget Resolution. The resolution’s sole purpose is to make it possible for the Senate to avoid a filibuster as they work to pass a repeal of key segments of the ACA while there is still no replacement. “After six and a half years of posturing and politics, Washington finally needs to get to work on a bipartisan plan to make sure that Americans have better access to quality, affordable healthcare.”
01.12.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is praising the announcement that the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) has taken an important step toward approving the use of federal Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) or Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) funds to help facilitate the revitalization of Union Station in Chicago. Lipinski led the successful effort to include language in the FAST Act – the five-year transportation funding bill passed last Congress – that made Union Station eligible for these programs. “Tens of thousands of Metra and Amtrak passengers utilize Union Station every weekday, many of them my constituents,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The station is in need of revitalization when it comes to the rail infrastructure, environmental conditions, and amenities available to passengers. That is why I worked hard to get language included in the FAST Act to make Union Station and other similar facilities eligible for federal assistance. I am very happy that the USDOT has decided to take a critical step toward facilitating work that will transform Union Station into the 21st century transportation hub that people in our region deserve.” Today’s announcement of an Emerging Projects Agreement on Union Station is a step toward the USDOT awarding a RRIF or TIFIA loan. The agreement also enables the USDOT to provide planning assistance as the project moves ahead.
01.11.2017	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is leading a bipartisan group of lawmakers in urging President-elect Trump to prevent China from being granted “market economy status” (MES); this status would make it easier for China to cheat American companies and steal American jobs. When China joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, a provision was put in place labeling China as a non-market economy (NME) which allows the United States to implement significant anti-dumping duties to protect American companies and workers from unfair Chinese trading practices. China believes this provision should expire. “Given continued mercantilist activities, including subsidization, industrial planning, currency misalignment policies, overcapacity, and state-owned enterprises, we believe that the United States must continue the longstanding policy of treating China as a NME, as WTO rules allow,” said Rep. Lipinski and several of his colleagues in a letter to the President-elect. “Granting China MES would undermine the effectiveness of our trade enforcement policies used to combat unfairly priced Chinese imports. It is vital that these policies continue to prevent domestic producers from being driven out of business and workers from being laid off due to continued Chinese central planning and non-market policies.” Under WTO rules, a NME is appropriately treated differently for the purposes of calculating antidumping duties. However, China is alleging that it should automatically attain market economy status based on its interpretation of Article 15 of its Protocol of Accession to the WTO, and has requested consultations with the United States to force the United States and other nations to treat China as a market economy. “We strongly urge the President-elect to continue and reaffirm the U.S. policy of continuing to treat China as a NME, which is appropriate given WTO rules, the facts, and the underlying U.S. statutory test,” stated the bipartisan group of lawmakers in the letter. “This is not a political question, but a substantive one. Ensuring that facts determine the outcome will incentivize China to abandon market-distorting policies while protecting businesses and jobs here in the United States.”
12.19.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, January 7th, from 10-11:30 a.m., at Oak Lawn Community High School, located at 9400 Southwest Highway in Oak Lawn. During the meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions about federal issues. Additionally, staff from the Congressman’s office will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting (9 a.m.) to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. “With the next session of Congress about to begin and a new Administration moving into the White House, I encourage residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting and voice their opinions,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you.” If you are unable to attend the meeting, Lipinski’s constituent offices in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, and Orland Park are open year round to meet your needs. If you have any questions, please call 773-948-6223.
12.16.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is praising the passage in the House and Senate of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, S. 3084, which authorizes and revises a wide-range of federal science, research, and technology development programs. These provisions apply to research programs at the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy, as well as government-sponsored research at universities and other institutions. The bill is designed to boost American innovation and competitiveness, resulting in the creation of American jobs. Notably, the bill authorizes the Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program that teaches scientists how to turn their discoveries into entrepreneurial, job-producing businesses. Language in the bill directs the expansion of I-Corps to additional federal agencies and academic institutions, as well as through state and local governments which can better support their economic development goals. The new I-Corps authority also supports prototype or proof-of-concept development activities, which will better enable researchers to commercialize their innovations. “I've been a strong supporter of the I-Corps program since it was first introduced by the NSF,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I have helped it grow and have seen how successful it has been. Programs like I-Corps get university and other federally-funded research translated more quickly into new products and new companies, creating American jobs and providing taxpayers a better return on their investment in science.” “I-Corps has become the standard for entrepreneurship in the federal government, having trained over 1,000 of our country’s best scientists,” stated serial entrepreneur Steve Blank. “From its inception, Congressman Lipinski was the visionary champion of I-Corps. The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act extending I-Corps is one of the major accomplishments of the 114th Congress.” S. 3084 also includes language that is based on Lipinski’s International Science and Technology Cooperation Act, HR 1156, which would establish a working group to coordinate international science and technology activities with both science agencies and the State Department. Specifically, the bill directs the National Science and Technology Council at the White House to coordinate a U.S. strategy for international science and technology cooperation, which will help address key global challenges, including public health, national security, energy, and environmental matters. “By coordinating with international partners on scientific issues, we strengthen the U.S. scientific enterprise and promote the free exchange of ideas in other nations,” Lipinski stated. “While many federal agencies are engaged with international partners on science and technology projects, there is a need to coordinate these projects across our government network and to identify opportunities for additional beneficial collaborations.” The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act also includes legislation led by Lipinski that would expand and improve cyber security and related research programs at the NSF and NIST. It expands requirements for cyber-related research to better counter computer-based threats to American voting systems, a response to concerns about foreign influence and tampering in the 2016 elections. The bill also directs NIST to establish best practices for the protection of information systems from cyber intrusion and to raise public awareness about cyber threats. In addition, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act makes improvements to the prize competition authority which Rep. Lipinski helped establish in 2010 via his bill in the GENIUS Act. The prize competition authority enables the federal government to sponsor innovation competitions to seek public solutions to challenges such as cyber security, robotics, and drug overdose treatment, among countless other fields. To date, over 700 competitions have been sponsored by federal agencies under this authority The bill also expands a range of STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) programs, including mentoring, apprenticeships, and support for informal STEM education opportunities. “As co-chair of the House STEM Education Caucus, I am pleased to see the progress that this bill makes in improving and expanding federal STEM education programs,” said Lipinski. “I’ve worked hard to improve STEM education, as America’s economic future relies on a workforce well-educated in math, science, and engineering. Informal science education – investing in museums such as the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago and other programs and institutions that excite children about a possible future in engineering and science fields – is something I’ve put a high priority on.” Finally, the bill includes two other provisions that Congressman Lipinski has worked on to alleviate burdens or restrictions on federally funded scientific enterprises. It includes provisions that reinforce the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) new and improved guidance on scientific conferences to remove unnecessary and harmful barriers to scientific collaboration created in the wake of a General Services Administration (GSA) scandal in 2012. These restrictions had impeded scientists from attending conferences to present their work and learn more about the work of their peers. The bill also increases the threshold for federally-funded science programs at universities and other institutions for equipment procurement. Currently, most research institutions only have to look for multiple bids on research equipment if that equipment costs over $10,000, but the OMB had reduced this to $3000 without explanation. The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act sets the threshold to $10,000 and provides greater flexibility for research institutions to purchase critical equipment without multiple bids. On the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Lipinski is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy.
12.14.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is praising the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) proposal to establish a standard for potentially life-saving vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication technology and to require this equipment for all new light duty vehicles manufactured after 2023. V2V uses dedicated short-range communications to exchange basic information about the operational status of vehicles in close proximity to one another. It is primarily used to improve safety and increase efficiency. “As co-chair of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus, this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is a highly anticipated step forward for the emerging connected vehicle industry,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The NHTSA has worked collaboratively with stakeholders on all levels to develop a very good proposal. V2V communications can enable many life-saving functions like collision and blind spot warnings, as well as intersection assistance. This technology can significantly reduce the number of traffic deaths each year and help the development of autonomous vehicles. In addition, the proposal mandates a cybersecurity framework that protects the system from hackers and guards privacy by ensuring that no personal data is collected or transmitted.” For many years, Congressman Lipinski has been a leader on connected and automated vehicle policy. The comprehensive transportation bill known as the FAST Act, that became law a year ago, contained a number of provisions he authored that will help our nation continue to lead on this emerging technology, which will increase safety, ease congestion, cut down on energy usage, expand mobility, and create new manufacturing jobs. The FAST Act also included language from Lipinski’s Future TRIP Act, which specifically directs the University Transportation Centers program to focus research on connected and automated vehicles. Rep. Lipinski also pushed the NHTSA to release proposed guidance for improving motor vehicle cybersecurity. The guidance, released this past fall, serves as a set of best practices for automakers and component suppliers to ensure their products are secure from cyberattacks. “As V2V technologies become mainstream, they will further leverage the many safety systems already being developed for installation in the next generation of vehicles,” said Lipinski. “V2V is one of the key components of automated vehicle systems that will ultimately increase traffic safety, enhance mobility, and make cars more efficient and environmentally friendly.”
12.13.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after recent reports on Russia’s hacking of Americans and interference with the 2016 Presidential Election: “I am deeply troubled by reports coming from the CIA regarding possible Russian interference in our recent elections. Based on Russia’s actions taken against other nations, including Estonia, Georgia, and Ukraine, it is of little surprise that President Putin would attempt to influence our democratic process. It is vital that we examine what occurred, and whether Russia sought to influence or more directly tamper with our elections. I support the calls for a special investigation into this, not to cast doubt on the results of the election so much as to identify the scope and consequence of Russia’s attempted influence, and to assure we put in place measures to prevent this from occurring again. “I will continue to make cybersecurity a top priority, but this will require cooperation that we don’t see enough of in Washington. Democrats and Republicans need to work together with the outgoing Obama Administration and the incoming Trump Administration to develop a bipartisan proactive approach to protecting Americans from cyber thefts and attacks.”
12.12.2016	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced the winners of the 2016 Senior Citizen of the Year Award during a special program in Hickory Hills. The winners were chosen based on their contributions to their communities in the Third Congressional District. “I am honored to recognize these seniors who have selflessly donated their time and energy to causes and pursuits that teach us all the value of service. They have truly made our neighborhoods and communities a better place to live.” The 2016 Senior Citizen of the Year Award winners are: Tom Ballard, Lemont; Dolores Barnes, Palos Park; Phyllis Churulo, Romeoville; John Coleman, Burbank; Rich Davis, Lockport; Mary DeMarco, Chicago (Canaryville); Bruce Haugen, Willow Springs; Anita Kieca, Hickory Hills; Sharon Skala, Chicago (Archer Heights); Arlene Norton-White, Chicago (Garfield Ridge); Robert Wilcox, Oak Lawn; and Joyce Wisniowicz of Orland Park. To be eligible for this award, a senior must be nominated by the leader of an organization or an official from their community. Only a select few are chosen to receive this honor.
12.08.2016	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped the House pass the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WINN), formerly known as the Water Resources Development Act or WRDA. The bill authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to develop and maintain America’s vital inland water infrastructure, including the locks and dams that mitigate flooding and facilitate commerce along the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal which runs through the Third Congressional District. It also contains a number of important provisions Lipinski supported to help clean up the Great Lakes and prevent the spread of invasive species. In addition, the bill includes an amendment led by Rep. Lipinski in the House Transportation Committee that requires the Corps of Engineers to publish an annual report on the amount of foreign goods they are procuring for use in civil works construction projects. “Not only do American taxpayers deserve to know how their money is being spent, but my amendment allows domestic manufacturers to analyze the Corps’ needs and find ways to work with them to keep American manufacturing competitive,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Overall, WIIN invests in one of our greatest resources, our vast transportation network served by ships and barges. It modernizes critical parts of this network, which will help lead to economic growth and middle-class jobs for the district and the nation.” The bill also includes legislation Lipinski co-sponsored to reauthorize the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which enables projects that clean up the Great Lakes basin, restore habitat, and prevent the spread of invasive species. Additionally, the bill sets aside money for the Great Lakes Navigation System to improve harbors. As Co-Chair of the Buy American Caucus, Lipinski worked to include a permanent Buy America provision in the bill that would apply to the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF). “Unfortunately, we were only able to get a one year application of Buy America requirements to the drinking water fund in the final bill,” stated Lipinski. “Next Congress I will continue to push for permanent Buy America language for this fund to give a boost to American manufacturing and the middle class.” Lipinski also led a provision which directs the Corps of Engineers to expedite completion of the McCook reservoir flood control project and enables agencies like the Chicago Metropolitan Water Reclamation District to leverage credit for projects they construct on the Corps’ behalf for future infrastructure projects. This will help alleviate local flooding problems. Finally, WIIN directs $170 million to improve drinking water infrastructure in places such as Flint, MI.
12.08.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Congresswoman Cheri Bustos (IL-17), and Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3) have introduced the Buy America for Drinking Water Extension Act. This bipartisan legislation would create jobs and grow the economy by ensuring that all iron and steel products used for projects in the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) are made entirely in the United States. “We must strengthen Buy America laws and close the loopholes that allow our tax dollars to employ foreign workers rather than Americans,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Buying American is one of the fastest and most effective ways to create jobs and give the overall economy a boost. This legislation would help ensure that we are supporting American workers, especially the hard-working middle class.” “Growing our local economy and boosting the manufacturing industry in our region have always been among my top priorities – that’s why I’m introducing this bipartisan, common-sense 'Buy America' legislation,” Congresswoman Bustos said. “Our state and federally funded construction projects should use American-made steel and iron while benefitting American workers. I’m proud to join Representatives Lipinski and Jones in this effort, and I will continue to fight for Illinois’ manufacturers and working families.” “I believe that taxpayer dollars should solely support American-made infrastructure. Unfortunately, current provisions in the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund are weak and Buy America text is only written for FY 2017,” Congressman Jones said. “Representatives Cheri Bustos, Dan Lipinski, and I introduced this legislation to ensure that Congress never puts a limit on supporting this country’s economy.” Many infrastructure projects are subject to “Buy America” provisions that require the use of American-made iron and steel. In the fall, the Senate passed their version of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), including a permanent “Buy America” requirement for projects funded by the DWSRF. Last week, Representative Lipinski led members, including Representatives Bustos and Jones, in calling on Speaker Ryan to include permanent “Buy America” provisions for any DWSRF projects in the final WRDA bill. As of right now, the current WRDA bill only contains a one year application of “Buy America” to the DWSRF.
12.05.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) approved Norwegian Air International's (NAI) petition to operate long-haul flights to the U.S.: “The DOT’s decision puts domestic airlines at a competitive disadvantage and threatens the livelihoods of thousands of American workers. NAI’s flag-of-convenience business model undermines international labor standards and fair competition. Despite the Norwegian name, NAI seeks to operate aircraft registered in Ireland by crews working under Singaporean employment contracts. “Since 2014, I have been working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to oppose NAI’s petition. This approval is not in the public’s best interest and could result in serious consequences for the American airline industry and its employees. I strongly urge President-elect Trump to stand with the hard-working men and women that are the foundation of American aviation and reopen the DOT’s decision as one of his first actions in office.”
12.01.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with colleagues from both sides of the aisle last night to pass the 21st Century Cures Act. The bill will boost funding for biomedical research, and streamline and update the approval process for medical innovations, improving the quality of life for many Americans. “This legislation will help speed the development and delivery of life-saving cures,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It provides a critical infusion of resources for medical research, as I have long advocated for. While not compromising patient safety, it will speed up the process by which medications and medical devices are approved in order to get new treatments to patients faster. While this bill is not perfect, I am glad the House could come together to get legislation passed that will improve the lives of so many people.” Highlights from the bill include: · Special National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) innovation accounts to support special biomedical research projects and streamlined approval for new drugs and medical devices. NIH would receive $4.8 billion over 10 years, while the FDA would receive $500 million. These funds would support important priorities set out by the current administration, including research on personalized medicine and Vice President Biden’s “Cancer Moonshot” initiative. · The formal reauthorization of the NIH through FY2020. The reauthorization requires the NIH to support prize competitions to promote biomedical research for serious health conditions, improve transparency by allowing the NIH Director to require grant recipients to share data generated from NIH-funded research, and focus on supporting young emerging scientists. In addition, a new pediatric research network will help pool resources and improve coordination for efforts related to pediatric rare diseases and birth defects. · New efforts to streamline FDA reviews. Breakthrough medical devices will now receive priority review. The rare pediatric disease priority review voucher program which incentivized the development of new drugs for kids with rare diseases will be renewed until October 1, 2020. The bill also gives the FDA the flexibility to approve antibiotics for life-threatening infections based on smaller clinical trials and allows them to use accelerated approval pathways for regenerative therapeutic products such as cell therapy and gene therapy. The FDA will also have more flexibility to hire staff at rates competitive with the private sector and academia. Currently, the FDA has trouble recruiting enough scientists as employment in the private sector is much more financially lucrative for them. · The creation of a fund for states to respond to the opioid abuse crisis. This funding provides resources for the opioid abuse initiatives Congress passed and the President signed into law in July. · Important provisions to reorganize and expand federal mental health efforts. Mental health research grants will now be subject to closer evaluations and oversight, and federal agencies will be able to better disseminate information about research findings and best practices to providers and consult with stakeholders to improve community-based mental health services. The bill also directs Health and Human Services to clarify situations when medical providers can disclose the private health information of patients with mental illness with their responsible caregivers. Congressman Lipinski supported related mental health legislation when it was first considered as a standalone bill in the House this past summer. · An Affordable Care Act (ACA) fix that Lipinski cosponsored to aid small employers who want to help pay for their workers’ health insurance plans. Under the ACA, small employers were not allowed to reimburse their workers for any insurance they purchased on their own, even if the employer did not have the resources to sponsor its own job-based health plan. This provision once again allows small employers to help workers with their health costs in this way. · Legislation Lipinski cosponsored to better track the epidemiology of neurological diseases. · Healthcare price transparency for Medicare. Because Medicare pays for some services both in hospital outpatient departments and in ambulatory surgical centers, Medicare patients may have different out-of-pocket costs depending on where they go for the service. The bill includes a provision to create a website that would make it easy for Medicare beneficiaries to compare providers’ costs and the resulting out-of-pocket expenses for these procedures. · Provisions based on Lipinski’s University Regulation Streamlining and Harmonization Act. The bill reduces the time and resources spent by researchers and universities in complying with excessive, duplicative, and inefficient federal regulations. “While there are many positive aspects to this legislation, passing this bill is only the first step,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “I am disappointed that we could not vote to increase NIH and FDA funding even more, as we did in July of 2015 when the initial version of the 21st Century Cures Act was passed in the House. Furthermore, unlike the bill I supported last year, the legislation we passed last night does not provide a funding guarantee. Continued vigilance from patient advocates and researchers will be needed to ensure that the funding promises in this bill are kept. Congress must also exercise its oversight duties to ensure that the new streamlined FDA approval processes in this bill work as intended and do not facilitate the entry of unduly risky drugs and devices into the market.”
11.29.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement ahead of tomorrow’s House Democrat leadership vote: “House Democrats are at our lowest number since the presidency of Herbert Hoover. That means that more than 98% of Americans have not seen House Democrats with fewer members. This year was supposed be a great opportunity to pick up a significant number of seats - maybe even regain the majority - by focusing the campaign on Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump. But after another bitterly disappointing election, House Democrats must finally acknowledge that something needs to change if we are once again going to become a majority party in the House of Representatives. “Nancy Pelosi has been a very strong Speaker and Leader for House Democrats. Her drive and determination made it possible for her to make history by becoming the first female Speaker of the House. Although I have not always agreed with her, I have always respected her great ability to rally Democrats together in the chamber. But the Democratic Caucus needs to take an honest look at the last few elections and recognize that the party’s brand does not play well in the House districts we need to pick up to gain the majority. “Too many Americans feel that the Democratic Party no longer prioritizes fighting for hard-working Americans struggling to survive in our country today. Though I do not represent a rural district where Democrats have suffered our biggest losses, I do hear from some of my Democratic constituents that they don’t trust that the national leadership of the party understands them and is addressing their concerns. That is one of the main reasons that Bernie Sanders won the Democratic Primary in my district this year. “I believe that without changes, including at the top of our House leadership, the voters we need in 2018 will not consider voting for Democratic House challenger candidates. Tim Ryan comes from a Rust Belt community that shares some similarities with my district and is very much like many of the districts Democrats need to win. He understands the perspective of workers and families who feel left behind. With Tim as our leader, I believe that we can begin to rebuild some of the trust that we have lost. Therefore, I'll be casting my vote for Tim Ryan on Wednesday to be our Democratic Leader.”
11.28.2016	Provisions based on Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) legislation, the University Regulation Streamlining and Harmonization Act, HR 5583, have been included in the broader health research and funding bill, the 21st Century Cures Act. Lipinski’s bill, developed on recommendations from a National Academies report, would reduce the time and resources spent by researchers and universities in complying with excessive, duplicative, and inefficient federal regulations. “The federal government plays a leading role in funding research that keeps our nation on the forefront of science,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “Unfortunately, this funding comes with some unnecessary regulatory burdens. As a political science grad student and professor, I had my own experiences with federal research regulations, and now as a member of the Science Committee, I hear from former colleagues and leading researchers across the country about the excessive regulations, reporting, and monitoring they must deal with. While some of this is important to oversee the use of taxpayer dollars, increasingly these requirements take up an inordinate amount of researchers’ time that could otherwise be devoted to cutting-edge research.” The 21st Century Cures Act, which the House is expected to consider this week, includes language parallel to Lipinski’s bill establishing the Research Policy Board, a new advisory board at the Office of Management and Budget comprised of 10 Federal members and up to 12 representatives of academic research institutions, and other private, non-profit research groups. This advisory board will provide information on the effects of regulations on federal research requirements, including analysis of regulations and policy; identifying adverse consequences of policies and recommendations to improve them; conducting ongoing assessments of regulatory burdens, establishing metrics to measure them, and identifying process and policy improvements. The board must submit a report containing its initial formal recommendations within two years of enactment. The 21st Century CURES Act also includes language to prevent redundant grant monitoring and reporting, similar to Lipinski’s bill. “I’m pleased that this important Research Policy Board language has been included in the CURES Act,” said Lipinski. “This legislation will lead to more resources for finding treatments for cancer and other deadly and life-altering diseases, and I’m glad to support its progress through Congress. Reducing researchers’ regulatory burdens while also increasing funding for the National Institutes of Health and other health research will be a win-win for the research community.”
11.16.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump named Steve Bannon as his Senior Counselor: “After one of the most divisive elections in history, we need leaders who are willing to work to heal our divisions and bring the nation together. President-elect Trump's words on election night seemed to echo that sentiment, but his decision to name Steve Bannon as his Senior Counselor suggests something very different. Bannon's history of giving voice to offensive and divisive statements is unacceptable; his appointment only serves to deepen the wounds in our nation. Because of this, I urge President-elect Trump to reconsider Bannon's appointment.”
11.07.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is asking veterans in the Third District to share their stories so they can be preserved in the Library of Congress’ Veterans History Project (VHP). For any veteran that is interested, the Congressman’s office will set up a recorded interview at a local site. The VHP collects, preserves, and makes accessible the personal accounts of veterans so that current and future generations can better understand the contributions and sacrifices they made. All veterans are invited to call Lipinski’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223 for more information or to schedule an interview. At the conclusion of the recorded interview, participants will receive a copy and one will be sent to the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. “I encourage all veterans to take advantage of this unique opportunity,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Our history is the story of every person who has contributed in some way to our great nation, and that means every veteran, including those that served during the Cold War. Our heroes are not just those we read about in the history books, but every man and woman who has served our nation in uniform.” All recorded interviews will be housed in the permanent collections of the Library of Congress. They will be available to researchers, scholars, students, authors, filmmakers, and anyone else visiting the library. For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov.
11.01.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is currently accepting nomination request letters from young men and women in the Third Congressional District who want to enter one of the U.S. Service Academies in 2017. “One of my congressional duties that I enjoy the most is helping young men and women pursue their goal of serving our nation by entering one of our military service academies,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is an honor and privilege to be able to nominate outstanding leaders who want to help others. I encourage those who are interested to begin a process that could change their lives and provide a great service for our country.” The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1st of the year they would enter the academy, be a United States citizen, have graduated from high school, be unmarried, have taken the ACT and/or SAT, and have met the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January of 2017, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is November 28, 2016. Please be advised that a congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance into the academy. Nomination requests should be submitted to Rep. Lipinski’s office at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL, 60638. The phone number is (773) 948-6223.
10.24.2016	The U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is releasing proposed guidance for improving motor vehicle cybersecurity. Since 2014, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has been pushing for enhanced protection against potential cyber attacks on vehicles. The guidance released today serves as a set of best practices for automakers and component suppliers to ensure their products are secure from cyber attacks. The NHTSA’s recommendations include the use of extensive product testing by mimicking potential threats, limiting the ability to modify firmware to control possible malware installation, and the development of an industry-wide disclosure framework to create a body of knowledge that will enable researchers to develop defenses against cyber threats. In April, the Government Accountability Office released a report following an investigation requested by Lipinski that found that the DOT needs to better define the federal government’s role in the cyber protection of vehicles and develop a plan for dealing with cyber attacks. Serving on the Transportation and Infrastructure and Science, Space, and Technology Committees, Lipinski has focused on cyber protection issues in other transportation systems, as well as having been an author of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, which became law during the last session of Congress. “As technology evolves, more and more of the items we use every day have critical systems connected to the internet, including the vehicles we drive,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The industry needs to consider these during the design phase, and how to deal with evolving threats throughout the vehicle’s service life. There are many positives to these advances, but it does increase the risk of cyber attacks. Hackers have already proven that they can take control of some vehicles, including the brake system, which could be the difference between life and death. Cybersecurity in transportation is an issue to be taken seriously in both the private and public sector, especially considering the ongoing efforts by the automotive industry and others to put more connected and driverless vehicles on our roadways. I'm pleased that the DOT is making it clear that cybersecurity must be a priority in the automotive technology development process, but I’m hopeful that congressional hearings will afford us to hear more from stakeholders about this guidance.” The DOT’s newly-released guidance focuses on solutions to ensure vehicle systems are designed to take appropriate and safe actions, even when an attack is successful. It recommends risk-based prioritized identification and protection of critical vehicle controls and consumers’ personal data, and it asks companies to consider the full life-cycle of their vehicles and facilitate rapid response and recovery from cybersecurity incidents. This guidance suggests that companies allocate appropriate and dedicated resources to address vehicle cybersecurity matters, and the entire automotive industry should consider vulnerabilities and exploits that may impact their supply-chain of operations. Employee training is also necessary to educate the automotive workforce on new cybersecurity practices and to share lessons learned with others.
10.19.2016	The Department of Transportation (DOT) is issuing an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking that requires airlines to refund baggage fees for passengers if their luggage is substantially delayed. This much-needed change – originally proposed in a bill from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) – was included in a short-term reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration approved in the summer. “Airline passengers deserve to be treated with fairness and respect,” said Rep. Lipinski. “If you pay for a service, you should get that service or get your money back. It’s just common sense.” The DOT will be seeking feedback about how it should define a substantial delay, whether it should differentiate between international and domestic flights, and how soon a refund should be issued.
10.18.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing a $296,700 grant from the Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program to fund access routes to Romeoville’s new Metra station near 135th and New Avenue. The grant, which comes from federal government funds, will be used to complete a path for walking and biking south of 135th Street and help pay for the installation of lighting along the multi-use path, a nearby access road, sidewalks, platforms, and a warming shelter. “Once completed, this new station will mean more people in Romeoville and the surrounding area will be able to spend less of their valuable time each day driving on congested roads or traveling to less convenient Metra stations,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As the most senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, a proponent of public transportation, and an avid runner and cyclist, I’m excited that this grant will help better integrate public transit with the county’s growing trail system, including the Centennial Trail and the Illinois and Michigan Canal Trail. Village Mayor John Noak as well as the Village Board and staff are to be commended for their hard work on this important development.” “I want to thank Representative Lipinski for his leadership and support in helping to bring this project closer to reality,” Romeoville Mayor John Noak said. “Once completed, it will benefit not just the Village of Romeoville but the entire region. I look forward to continuing to work with the Congressman to help with projects such as this that improve both the local economy and the overall quality of life of area residents.” Construction on the new Metra station is expected to begin in spring of next year.
10.07.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Federal Transit Administration has selected the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA), in partnership with the Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT), to receive a $400,000 grant to develop some modifications to the Ventra App to allow customers to more easily access Divvy bikes at over 580 bike share stations throughout Chicago. The improvements will help nearly one million Ventra App customers more easily locate Divvy bike share stations, view bike and dock availability, and seamlessly pay for Divvy bike rentals though the app using Ventra transit value. “In addition to being Illinois' most senior member on the U.S. House Transportation Committee, I am also an avid cyclist, so I’m extremely pleased to be able to help the CTA and CDOT with their efforts to improve ridership on this growing program” said Rep. Lipinski. “Giving this bike sharing system and other creative transportation alternatives a boost just makes sense. It’s good for the health of the region, the environment, and helps address the ongoing challenges that come with congestion.” Divvy is a bike sharing system featuring thousands of bikes at hundreds of stations across Chicago. The bikes are available 24/7, 365 days a year. Each station has a touchscreen kiosk, station map, and a docking system that releases bikes using a member key or ride code. You must be 16 years or older to ride Divvy.
10.07.2016	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is visiting ODM Tool & Manufacturing Company in McCook to celebrate the fifth annual National Manufacturing Day. He is once again praising our country’s manufacturers and their hard-working employees for playing an important role in our national economy and keeping high quality middle class jobs in our local communities. Last Congress, Lipinski’s bill requiring the nation to have a plan for boosting manufacturing jobs, known as the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, became law. He has also authored legislation that is helping customs agents stop foreign companies from cheating American taxpayers and workers by illegally avoiding customs duties. “The importance of a healthy manufacturing base and its impact on the middle class cannot be overstated,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Unfortunately, our manufacturers and their workers are confronted daily with new rules and restrictions that don’t seem to apply to their competitors overseas. The latest threat comes from the deeply flawed Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement. I support fair trade, but this deal will hurt American workers if it’s approved by Congress. The last thing the middle class needs is another trade agreement like NAFTA or the Korea Free Trade Agreement that will destroy American jobs, lower wages, and put the consumer protections we rely on in doubt. I promise to stand with American workers and American manufacturing and vote against TPP.” ODM Tool & Manufacturing was founded over 65 years ago as a small tool and die shop by Otto D. Michaelson. Today, it produces precision metal stampings and welded assemblies for automotive suppliers throughout North America. ODM is a pillar of manufacturing in McCook. National Manufacturing Day is organized by several national manufacturing associations, as well as manufacturers themselves, to draw attention to the industry through hundreds of events nationwide.
09.29.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that Argonne National Lab in Lemont is one of three national laboratories that will receive nearly $1.2 million to advance collaborative research and development focused on improving manufacturing processes to make American businesses more competitive. This is part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Technologist in Residence (TIR) Program, which is designed to streamline engagement and increase collaborative research and development between national laboratories and private-sector companies. The program partners a senior technologist from a national laboratory with an industry professional from a clean energy manufacturing company or consortium of companies. “As one of the few members of Congress trained as an engineer, I'm extremely interested in supporting advanced technical research with the potential to yield lasting benefits for all Americans,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I will continue to push for more funding for research and development at Argonne, which will not only lead to new technologies for our nation but also lead to new companies and jobs. This funding will focus on the development of advanced semiconductor devices for use in advanced power electronics, optoelectronics, solid-state lighting, and photovoltaics.” The TIR program increases industry engagement by capitalizing on the Department of Energy’s 17 national laboratories’ rich history of industry partnerships and commercial impact, and helps to bridge the gap between the private sector and the national laboratories. Through this initiative, industry partners can better understand and tackle their most important problems, and discover the lab capabilities that can best solve them. This announcement follows the successful launch of TIR in December of 2015, when seven industry-lab pairs – including national companies like Proctor & Gamble, Hewlett Packard, and Cummins – were selected to undertake advanced research in clean energy manufacturing and establish mechanisms that will help interested companies more easily leverage the national lab network in the future. Applications for the TIR Program are accepted and evaluated on a rolling basis to give lab and industry pairs the opportunity to apply according to their business schedule.
09.29.2016	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Darin LaHood (IL-18) have unveiled a project called “The Congress of Tomorrow,” a major initiative designed to restore Congress to a functioning governing body that works effectively to solve problems. They have introduced a resolution in the House to create a Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress that would create a committee to study and then recommend reforms of the legislative process. “Although I used to teach college students how Congress operates, it doesn’t take a student of Congress to understand that the legislative body is not working effectively for the American people,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Americans know that major issues facing our nation are not being solved. The legislative productivity of the last Congress, the 113th, was the worst on record, and the Congress before that, the 112th, was the second worst. Americans understand that the legislative process is not working when they see Congress continually waiting until the last minute to address major issues, and sometimes not acting at all as we saw with the government shutdown a couple of years ago. Just this week, we pushed to the brink of a government shutdown and then put off action on spending for FY2017 until the lame duck session after the election. This is not how Congress should operate; we need fundamental reforms to make Congress work again.” The bipartisan Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress has been used three times in the past 100 years. It would be comprised of 24 members (12 each from the House and Senate, evenly split between parties), tasked with studying the organization and operation of Congress, and reporting its findings and recommendations. The resolution does not prescribe a specific reform agenda for the Joint Committee or prioritize any ideas over another. It merely serves as the platform and mechanism where all ideas, including those from members of the public from across the country, can be heard and debated. “I decided to run for Congress because I knew that major reforms would be necessary to make Congress more transparent and effective,” stated Rep. LaHood. “In my first year in Congress as a freshman, I have seen the crippling dysfunction in Washington first-hand. Congress simply isn’t getting essential work done. The American public distrust of their legislative branch is legitimate, and things have to change. However, real change requires real actions and real work. That’s why I have joined with my colleague, Rep. Lipinski, to call for the formation of a Joint Committee to reform Congress, pulling together Democrats and Republicans from both the House and the Senate with a mandate to recommend major reforms in a timely fashion. We have the opportunity to restore Congress’ responsiveness to the American people and rebuild their trust. Now is the time to act.” “In order to conduct the peoples’ business more effectively, Congress as an institution must streamline rules and procedures, improve efficiency in the committees and on the floor of the House and Senate, institute regular order as much as possible, increase participation of the members in the legislative process, and encourage bipartisan cooperation,” said Congressman Lipinski. “Congress should also strive to improve relationships among members of the House and Senate, between the House and Senate, and between Congress and the Executive Branch. Hopefully, this resolution is a first step to creating a better Congress that produces better policies for the American people.”
09.21.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded Midway Airport two grants to improve safety at the airport. An almost two million dollar grant will be used to help rehabilitate over a mile of runway to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and to minimize foreign object debris. In addition, a separate grant for $72,000 will help pay for equipment needed to reduce the risk of runway incursions and conflicts between aircraft and vehicles operating at the airport. “Midway Airport serves an important role in national air travel and our regional economy,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This investment will help to ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible.” Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Since coming into office, he has helped secure tens of millions of dollars for projects to improve the airport and the surrounding community. Last week, he announced a $17.5 million grant for soundproofing homes around Midway Airport.
09.20.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills has been awarded a half million dollar grant through the National Science Foundation (NSF). The funds will support a partnership between Moraine Valley Community College (MVCC) and Chicago State University (CSU) that will promote the training of students in the field of cybersecurity and intelligence (CS&I). During the last session of Congress, Rep. Lipinski’s Cybersecurity Enhancement Act was passed and became law. His bill was designed to increase the security of federal networks and information systems, improve the transfer of cybersecurity technologies to the marketplace, coordinate and prioritize federal cybersecurity research and development efforts, and train a cybersecurity workforce. To help with cybersecurity training, his legislation authorized the Cyber Corps/Federal Cyber Scholarships for Service program through which the NSF is providing this funding to Moraine Valley. Lipinski mentioned the school’s excellent work in cybersecurity education during floor debate on his bill. “The first step in securing our cyber future is education, and that means everything from educating individuals, to companies, to the next generation of IT professionals,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Moraine Valley has trained hundreds of teachers and college faculty in cybersecurity related areas since 2003. These individuals are now making a difference teaching at community colleges and technical training programs nationwide.” “Moraine Valley is happy to receive this new grant from the National Science Foundation,” said Dr. Sylvia Jenkins, President of Moraine Valley Community College. “It will allow the college to build upon its nationally known cybersecurity program and, in collaboration with Chicago State University, create pathways for students to earn degrees in cybersecurity and intelligence. These students – our district community members – ultimately will become tomorrow’s top scientists and engineers, and that’s incredibly exciting.” The partnership between Moraine Valley and CSU addresses the need for both well-trained faculty and students to meet the growing need for CS&I professionals, and it creates pathways between undergraduate and graduate level programs. Students at Moraine Valley in existing majors like cybersecurity, geospatial information systems, management information systems, computer science, criminal justice, and other social and physical sciences programs can matriculate to undergraduate programs at CSU with an academic minor in security and intelligence. The partnership also includes a series of summer camps that expose students from two-year institutions to career opportunities in CS&I, and it includes a small-scale research program that explores the methods of teaching and learning CS&I, and strategies to develop awareness of careers in CS&I in urban and diverse secondary classrooms. “Every day we learn of more cyber attacks in our nation and around the world,” said Lipinski. “In the United States, these attacks have the potential to destroy our military and economic security, and perhaps impact the process we use to elect our leaders. American workers have lost jobs and businesses have been damaged because of cyber attacks, and that’s why it will continue to be a top priority of mine to put the necessary resources in place to help our nation prepare for and combat future cyber attacks. I’m very happy to help Moraine Valley contribute even more in this critical area for our nation.”
09.20.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today praised the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) long-anticipated release of guidance for autonomous vehicles. “Over the past two years, I’ve been talking to innovators, academics, policymakers, and other mobility experts about what the Federal Government should be doing to promote autonomous vehicles and most say we need to provide industry with flexibility to innovate and local governments with guidance on regulations,” Rep. Lipinski said. “While we still need more information on how the DOT will implement the guidelines released today, I believe they’ve struck the right balance to maintain safety while allowing freedom to innovate. If we stifle innovation, the U.S. will lose its lead in this new technology, probably to China. That means we will fall behind in saving lives and we will lose potentially millions of jobs that will result from the development and manufacture of these new vehicles.” Lipinski has held a series of roundtable events around federal policy on connected and automated vehicles, the most recent of which was held Monday in Chicago. Panelists brought up the need to have a uniform set of state and local standards so that researchers and automakers could focus on innovations to improve efficiency and safety rather than widely varying requirements among jurisdictions. The DOT included model state standards for vehicle registration in their guidance documents. Also included was a 15-point Safety Assessment to set clear expectations for manufacturers developing and deploying automated vehicle technologies. The assessment includes topics such as data collection, privacy, and cybersecurity. The focus on cybersecurity comes after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) responded to a letter led by Congressman Lipinski that asked about the DOT’s readiness on vehicle cybersecurity in January of 2015. The GAO found that the DOT had room for improvement on the subject. “Cybersecurity in transportation is a topic we all should take very seriously, and I’m happy that the DOT is making clear that it must be a priority when developing this technology,” Lipinski said. One area that will need to be examined further is exemption petitions for existing regulations. The DOT says in the guidance they would turn around exemption petitions in six months, which may be a long time for innovators to wait in a constantly changing market. “While the flexibility from existing regulations may allow for innovations in vehicle design, if these take too long to approve it could be a hurdle for American companies trying to keep up with global competition,” said Lipinski. Congressman Lipinski sits on both the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. When Congress passed the FAST Act last December, he was able to include several provisions promoting connected and autonomous vehicles. These include a university transportation center focused on this technology, a new interagency policy working group at the DOT to promote development of autonomous and connected vehicles, and a GAO study of connected and autonomous vehicle policies. Lipinski also inserted language into a computer science research bill which allows for research into “smart cities,” which will help support connected vehicle and connected infrastructure technologies. “As the guidance states, new authorities may be needed to aid the safe deployment of new technologies,” Lipinski said. “I look forward to continuing to work with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and with my colleagues in Congress to provide any necessary new authorities and, in general, to produce the best possible environment for America to lead the way in innovation and deployment of autonomous vehicles and other mobility enhancements. The next important step by the Federal Government will be the release of a rule pending at the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) regarding protection of the 5.9 GHz spectrum for use by connected vehicles for dedicated short-range communication (DSRC). This is a very critical step in ensuring safety and maximizing efficiency in the development of autonomous vehicles.”
09.15.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded a $17.5 million grant for noise mitigation measures around Midway Airport. “While Midway has certainly provided many economic benefits to surrounding communities and the entire region, I know firsthand that issues such as airplane noise can be extremely frustrating,” said Rep. Lipinski. “That is why I am happy to help bring more federal funding for soundproofing area homes. I will continue to work to make the airport better for everyone.” Recent changes in flight paths around Midway have resulted in some different communities experiencing overflights of planes. The Congressman has been in touch with the Chicago Department of Aviation and the Federal Aviation Administration about the new noise issues that have been raised by these changes. Additional sound monitors already have been placed in some communities as a first step in moving to address this. Rep. Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee.
08.18.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is helping Stickney residents dispose of unwanted prescription drugs by partnering with Mayor Deborah Morelli and CVS Health to have a drop box installed at Stickney Village Hall. Residents can come to the Police Department at the Village Hall at 6533 Pershing Road to drop off prescription drugs that are expired or no longer needed. “Having unwanted drugs sitting around the house can lead to serious problems,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Opioid abuse has touched families and communities across our nation. It is my hope that improved access to drop boxes like this will help fight this ongoing crisis by getting rid of another potential gateway to addiction. I would like to thank Mayor Morelli, the Stickney Police Department, and CVS for their hard work on this important issue.” “CVS Pharmacy is dedicated to collaborating with organizations like The Partnership for Drug-Free Kids and local law enforcement to prevent the abuse of unwanted and expired medication,” said Tom Davis, RPh, Vice President of Pharmacy Professional Practices at CVS Health. “The installment of drug collection receptacles is part of our ongoing commitment to battle prescription drug abuse in the U.S. and to help people in the communities we serve on their path to better health.” Municipalities interested in adding a drop box for unwanted prescription drugs at their village or city hall are encouraged to call Congressman Lipinski’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223. Last month, Lipinski helped bring drop boxes to the communities of Bridgeview and Countryside.
07.22.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) will be receiving a Department of Transportation grant for $3.62 million dollars to add battery-powered, zero-emission, all-electric buses with en-route charging capabilities to their fleet. As the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and co-chair of the House Public Transportation Caucus, Lipinski fought hard to include funding for zero-emission buses in the long-term transportation bill – known as the FAST Act – that was signed into law at the end of last year. “During consideration of the FAST Act, I strongly advocated for the inclusion of funding for public transit, including two grant programs that will assist transit agencies such as the CTA in acquiring new buses and maintaining the infrastructure that supports them,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant is a step forward for the CTA in helping the environment and paving the way for more clean transportation technology. As a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I continue to be devoted to promoting American clean energy innovation.” In April of this year, as co-chair of the Public Transportation Caucus, Lipinski hosted a panel of experts to discuss electric bus technology. CTA President Dorval Carter joined the panel to share the agency’s experiences operating electric buses and their plans to acquire 20-30 new buses in the next several years. Across the U.S., there are currently 23 transit agencies operating nearly 120 electric drive or fuel cell buses.
07.22.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is helping Countryside residents dispose of unwanted prescription drugs by partnering with Mayor Sean McDermott and CVS Health to have a drop box installed at Countryside City Hall. Residents can come to the Police Department at City Hall at 5550 East Avenue to drop off prescription drugs that are expired or no longer needed. “So many people have unwanted or expired prescription drugs sitting in their medicine cabinet at home because it is not safe to throw these drugs in the garbage or to dump them down the drain,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I worked to get these drop boxes installed so that residents have a safe, convenient, and responsible means of getting rid of these drugs. Having unwanted drugs sitting around the house is not only clutter, it can be a danger. Opioid abuse is an epidemic across our nation and oftentimes it is prescription drugs that fall into the wrong hands which start the path to addiction. Having drop boxes like this installed is just one way that I am working to help fight the opioid crisis. I would like to thank Mayor McDermott, the Countryside Police Department, and CVS for their work on this.” “CVS Pharmacy is dedicated to collaborating with organizations like The Partnership for Drug-Free Kids and local law enforcement to prevent the abuse of unwanted and expired medication,” said Tom Davis, RPh, Vice President of Pharmacy Professional Practices at CVS Health. “The installment of drug collection receptacles is part of our ongoing commitment to battle prescription drug abuse in the U.S. and to help people in the communities we serve on their path to better health.” Municipalities interested in adding a drop box for unwanted prescription drugs at their village or city hall are encouraged to call Congressman Lipinski’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223.
07.21.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is helping Bridgeview residents dispose of unwanted prescription drugs by partnering with Mayor Steve Landek and CVS Health to have a drop box installed at Bridgeview Village Hall. Residents can come to the Police Department at the Village Hall at 7500 South Oketo Avenue to drop off prescription drugs that are expired or no longer needed. “So many people have unwanted or expired prescription drugs sitting in their medicine cabinet at home because it is not safe to throw these drugs in the garbage or to dump them down the drain,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I worked to get these drop boxes installed so that residents have a safe, convenient, and responsible means of getting rid of these drugs. Having unwanted drugs sitting around the house is not only clutter, it can be a danger. Opioid abuse is an epidemic across our nation and oftentimes it is prescription drugs that fall into the wrong hands which start the path to addiction. Having drop boxes like this installed is just one way that I am working to help fight the opioid crisis. I would like to thank Mayor Landek, the Bridgeview Police Department, and CVS for their work on this.” “CVS Pharmacy is dedicated to collaborating with organizations like The Partnership for Drug-Free Kids and local law enforcement to prevent the abuse of unwanted and expired medication,” said Tom Davis, RPh, Vice President of Pharmacy Professional Practices at CVS Health. “The installment of drug collection receptacles is part of our ongoing commitment to battle prescription drug abuse in the U.S. and to help people in the communities we serve on their path to better health.” Municipalities interested in adding a drop box for unwanted prescription drugs at their village or city hall are encouraged to call Congressman Lipinski’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223.
07.19.2016	Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Barbara Comstock (VA-10), co-chairs of the House Public Transportation Caucus, have introduced the bipartisan Securing America’s Facilities, Equipment, and Rail: Taking Responsibility for American National Security in Transit (SAFER TRANSIT) Act to better secure our country’s public transit systems and the infrastructure we rely on. In May, the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Inspector General released a report regarding the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) oversight of passenger rail security. The report found that a number of requirements included in the 9/11 Act involving theTSA’s ability to conduct sufficient oversight of rail security have yet to be implemented. “Right now, three key 9/11 Act passenger rail requirements still remain incomplete,” stated Reps. Lipinski and Comstock. “With ever-growing security concerns across the nation, our bill directs the TSA to develop a process to follow through on these important security provisions.” The TSA deploys Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) at high-risk transportation locations to increase the level of law enforcement visibility and terrorism deterrence. Unfortunately, authorization for VIPR teams and Surface Transportation Security Inspectors expired in 2011. Lipinski and Comstock’s legislation would reauthorize this program. The SAFER TRANSIT Act also provides stakeholders with the resources they need to effectively respond to a rapidly changing threat environment by reauthorizing DHS research programming through 2020. This important research focuses on solutions to fill capability and vulnerability gaps identified by TSA and transit stakeholders. In addition, the bill creates a transit security-specific training program through the DHS Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and makes it available to officers from local law enforcement agencies that will attend the course and return to their home departments to share the tactics they have learned with other officers. “The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) welcomes expanded support from the Department of Homeland Security to help secure our nation’s public transportation systems,” said APTA Acting President and CEO Richard White. “The SAFER TRANSIT Act would provide additional resources to train law enforcement personnel to patrol and respond to security emergencies in and around public transit facilities, and needed funding for security related research and development. We appreciate Reps. Lipinski and Comstock’s leadership in introducing this bill.” “The American Bus Association (ABA) supports the SAFER TRANSIT Act, which would reauthorize several grant programs vital to the security of the traveling public, including those traveling by motorcoach,” said ABA President and CEO Peter Pantuso. “Motorcoach companies carry out more than 600 million passenger trips annually and our industry remains committed to the safety and security of our passengers. We look forward to working with Congressman Lipinski and Congresswoman Comstock to move this critical legislation forward.” “The Chicago Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) is pleased that Rep. Lipinski is taking the lead on funding, researching, and developing programs that will further ensure the security and safety of our public transportation systems and riders,” said RTA Executive Director Leanne Redden. “We thank Congressman Lipinski for his continued advocacy on behalf of our region-wide transit system and its millions of daily passengers.”
07.18.2016	Congressmen Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Randy Forbes (R-VA) were joined by fifty other lawmakers today in urging Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to investigate the pending joint venture with the North Carolina-based rail manufacturing company, Vertex Railcar Corporation, and two Chinese corporations, China Railway Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC) and Majestic Legend Holdings. CRRC is a state-sponsored entity with access to vast amounts of subsidized funding from the Chinese government, allowing them to unfairly and significantly underbid private competitors in the U.S. Majestic Legend Holdings is associated with Legend Holdings, the parent company of Lenovo Computers, and also has close ties to the Chinese government. America’s rail system covers more than 140,000 miles and carries forty percent of the nation’s intercity freight, including 111 million tons of hazardous materials. Allowing a foreign, state-backed entity to increase direct investment in our country’s critical public infrastructure without appropriate review creates significant economic and national security concerns. Similar mergers involving state-owned companies have threatened other critical sectors of our economy beyond rail, such as public transit, steel fabrication, energy production, food manufacturing, real estate, and more. The lawmakers wrote: “This agenda has aggressively asserted Chinese interests into a range of foreign markets such as Australia, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, and others. CRRC in particular is able to access subsidized financing from the Chinese government, which has already enabled the company to underbid private competitors for railcar contracts in Boston and Chicago. In effect, American railcar manufacturers and its associated industries, such as steel, are now competing against the resources of the world’s second largest economy.” For a full version of the letter, click here.
07.12.2016	The House of Representatives approved a bill on Monday extending FAA policy and funding through September of 2017. The final bill contains provisions to protect passengers and enhance aviation security, including legislation that will shorten security lines at airports while maintaining safety by optimizing Transportation Security Administration (TSA) staffing. It also includes language from Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bill requiring refunds for baggage fees if passengers’ bags are delayed. “Airline passengers deserve to be treated with fairness and respect,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Simply put, if you pay for a service, you should get that service promptly or get your money back. During consideration of the House’s FAA bill, I was a strong advocate for requiring that fees be refunded for baggage that is lost or delayed. This legislation will ensure that passengers who don’t get their luggage on time will be fairly compensated.” The bill passed by the House this week also addresses accommodations for air travelers with disabilities, family-seating accommodations, and enhances medical protections for pilots. In addition, it expands a research program designed to detect and identify unmanned aerial systems (UAVs or drones) flying close to airports. “We’ve heard many stories about planes encountering drones during their normal flights, and this cooperative research program will help prevent collisions or accidents,” said Lipinski. “The FAA has also announced that the FBI will be working with industry and academic stakeholders to research ways to detect ‘rogue’ drones operating in the vicinity of airports. As co-chair of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus, I strongly support integrating UAVs into the national airspace system while ensuring the safety of flights for all users.” Since work began on the 2012 FAA Reauthorization, Lipinski has also worked continuously to reform the aircraft certification process, and was the lead Democratic cosponsor of the Small Airplane Revitalization Act in 2013. Streamlining the certification process would accelerate getting the product to market, ultimately strengthening job growth and stimulating economic activity. “Aviation is an increasingly global marketplace,” stated Lipinski. “To compete in this arena, domestic manufacturers must certify their product with the FAA which can take time to achieve. Then they have to work to facilitate acceptance of the equipment by the buyer’s respective aviation authority. In recent years, American manufacturers have encountered significant delays during this process. These delays have serious economic consequences for the small and medium sized businesses that make up the multi-billion dollar aviation supply chain. House and Senate members have worked with stakeholders to craft bipartisan solutions that would directly translate to tangible economic benefits across the entire industry, but these reforms were unfortunately not included in the extension that was approved this week. “On the whole, the bill passed by the House is a good bill, but much work remains to be done. In the coming months, Congress needs to continue to focus on passing a comprehensive, long-term FAA reauthorization to maintain America’s leadership in the global aviation industry. I am hopeful this is the last short-term extension.” The FAA’s current short-term extension is set to expire July 15th. The bill now moves to the Senate.
07.11.2016	Later this month, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting, two Senior Fairs, and a Veterans Fair in the Third Congressional District. At the Town Hall Meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions about federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s office will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. The Senior Fairs will give district residents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services for seniors. During the Veterans Fair, Lipinski’s staff will be joined by the Illinois and U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs and other organizations to assist with a variety of issues, including military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA Hospital billing, placement in VA homes, and GI Bill information. “I encourage residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting, Senior Fairs, and Veterans Fair,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you. In addition, these events will be great opportunities for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my office provides.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming events are as follows: Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, July 19 7:00 p.m. Oak Lawn Community High School 9400 Southwest Highway, Oak Lawn Congressional staff will be available starting at 6:00 p.m. for assistance with federal agencies Senior Fairs Monday, July 18 10:00 a.m. – noon American Legion Post 735 6050 S. Harlem Avenue, Summit Monday, July 25 10:00 a.m. – noon Aviana Banquet Hall 11142 Southwest Highway, Palos Hills Veterans Fair Friday, July 22 10:00 a.m. – noon American Legion Coulter Post 1941 900 South La Grange Road, La Grange For more information, visit lipinski.house.gov or call 773-948-6223.
07.06.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Stickney Fire Department has been awarded a grant through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Stickney will receive $151,715 to help purchase 24 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) devices and 30 additional face pieces. “All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job,” said Rep. Lipinski. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do their best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
07.06.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Lemont Fire Protection District has been awarded a grant through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Lemont will receive $36,364 to help purchase a sprinkler system for one of their fire stations. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This much-needed new system will help keep these brave men and women safe, while also protecting the valuable equipment and resources they use to better serve the residents and businesses of Lemont and the surrounding area. I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety at the Lemont Fire Protection Department.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
06.29.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is teaming with the Library of Congress to bring their Veterans History Project (VHP) to the Third District. The VHP collects, preserves, and makes accessible the personal accounts of veterans so that future generations can better understand the experiences of our veterans and the contributions they have all made to America. “The actions of our heroic veterans helped shape the country and world we live in today,” Rep. Lipinski said. “With each passing day taking more of them from us, it is imperative that the first-hand stories of their military experiences be preserved.” Participation in the program is easy. If you’re a veteran of any conflict – including the Cold War – simply call the Congressman’s Chicago office at 773-948-6223 and schedule an interview time with a specially trained staff member. The interview will be recorded and a copy will be sent to the veteran and the Library of Congress. In addition, veterans can donate copies of correspondence as well as visual materials. “I encourage every veteran to take advantage of this great opportunity to add their voice to this project,” stated Lipinski. “American history is not just about famous people; it is the story of every American who has contributed in ways big and small to our nation, and every veteran has made an important contribution.” All recorded interviews and other donated items will be housed in a preservation environment within the permanent collections of the Library of Congress. Within a six month processing period, all provided materials will be available to researchers, scholars, students, authors, filmmakers, and anyone else visiting the library. For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov.
06.24.2016	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) introduced the University Regulations Streamlining and Harmonization Act of 2016 to reduce the time and money spent by researchers complying with excessive federal regulations. Following up on recommendations from a National Academy of Sciences report, Lipinski worked with the National Academies, scientific advocacy groups, and universities to develop this legislation to relieve regulatory burdens while still protecting the taxpayers’ investment from waste, fraud, and abuse. Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) joined in co-sponsoring this bipartisan bill. “The federal government plays a leading role in funding research that keeps our country on the forefront of science,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Unfortunately, this funding comes with some unnecessary regulatory burdens. As a political science grad student and professor, I had my own experiences dealing with federal research regulations. As a member of the Science Committee, I now hear from former colleagues and researchers across the country about the excessive reporting and monitoring requirements they must comply with. Some of these are important to protect the investment that taxpayers are making in scientific research. Increasingly though, these requirements are taking up an inordinate amount of researchers’ time and resources that could otherwise be devoted to cutting edge research.” A recent survey conducted by the Federal Demonstration Partnership found that 42 percent of faculty time related to scientific research is spent on activities other than research, with 19.3 percent spent on just filling out paperwork to comply with federal regulations. Not only do these requirements take scientists out of the lab, but they also cost the Federal Government money that could otherwise be spent on science. Vanderbilt University did a study of public and private universities and found that an estimated $10 billion annually is spent on complying with regulations on federally funded research. The University Regulations Streamlining and Harmonization Act of 2016 would: · Establish a Research Policy Board to advise the Office of Management and Budget on proposed research regulations and recommend ways to streamline existing ones · Allow for the review of research regulations by a panel of experts from the research and university community · Eliminate requirements for duplicative auditing of research grants · Streamline the process for purchasing research equipment and help universities make sensible arrangements to save money by buying in bulk · Assist scientists in filling out grant applications across different federal agencies by setting up an online database for researcher information that can automatically input certain parts of applications “By making the regulations around scientific research more efficient and data-driven, we can better utilize every dollar dedicated to research,” said Lipinski. “My bill frees up time and resources for scientists to do research that can help cure diseases, develop new sources of energy, and understand the world in ways that were previously impossible. Spending more money on research rather than administrative costs also means a better use of taxpayers’ dollars, and could even help prevent tuition increases by reducing the need to supplement research funds at universities with other revenue sources to cover costs. In tight budget times such as these, I think looking at reforms like this are very important and something members on both sides of the aisle support.” In addition to serving on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Congressman Lipinski is also the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology. His district includes Argonne National Laboratory, the first national laboratory in the United States and the largest facility of its kind in the Midwest. He has long supported investing in innovation and scientific research at universities, national labs, and other entities that support long-term economic growth and allow the United States to compete in the global marketplace and grow American jobs.
06.23.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Surface Transportation Board (STB) is increasing their scrutiny of CSX after a dramatic increase in blocked rail crossing incidents on the Elsdon line since the company acquired it in 2013. The line travels through several Southwest Chicago communities, including Beverly and Mount Greenwood, and nearby villages such as Evergreen Park. “This is good news for residents of far southwestern Chicago and surrounding communities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Over the past few years, I have heard from many frustrated residents and local officials regarding frequent and lengthy traffic delays caused by CSX freight trains. These blocked crossings are more than just a nuisance because they impact access to hospitals in the area. I am very happy that the STB has responded to my request and is re-examining whether CSX is following the terms of the agreement they made to not block crossings when the purchase of the line received federal approval. “CSX has said that it has made and continues to make efforts to improve equipment and scheduling to alleviate the blocked crossings. Now the STB will be monitoring the situation to determine if they are in compliance with the terms of the 2013 agreement or if further action needs to be taken. I will continue to closely watch this situation.”
06.22.2016	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and John Moolenaar (MI-4), the co-chairs of the new bipartisan Congressional Chemistry Caucus, released the following statement today after the President signed into law the first overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act in 40 years: “This is a tremendous bipartisan accomplishment and it represents what can be done when leaders in Washington work together. This new law strengthens environmental protections for all Americans, recognizes the value of more than 800,000 people employed in the chemical industry, and keeps America as the world leader in research and innovation.”
06.17.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that Saint Xavier University has been awarded a grant through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The school will receive $341,366 in financial assistance to help nurses seeking to get graduate degrees so they can become advanced practice nurses. The funds can be used for tuition, books, and program fees, as well as reasonable living expenses during the traineeship. “Congratulations to Saint Xavier University on receiving this grant for their highly regarded nursing program, one of only 17 designated Centers of Excellence by the National League of Nursing,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We need more young women and men working in healthcare and this funding will provide the opportunity for more students to get valuable advanced nursing degrees. I am happy to be able to help Saint Xavier continue its proud history and lengthy track record of success.” In the past, Congressman Lipinski has helped secure funds for the University’s library and their science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education programs. “Saint Xavier is serving a critical mission educating so many young people – many of whom are first-generation college students – and preparing them for their future careers,” said Lipinski. “President Christine Wiseman continues to do a great job leading the school.”
06.15.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Pleasantview Fire Protection District has been awarded a grant through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Pleasantview, which covers Burr Ridge, Countryside, Hodgkins, Indian Head Park, La Grange Highlands, Willowbrook, and portions of unincorporated Cook and DuPage counties, has been awarded $100,000 for three power load systems for their three ambulances and one power assist stretcher. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders,” Rep. Lipinski said. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do the best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
06.15.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Burbank Fire Department has been awarded a grant through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Burbank will receive $218,773 to help purchase 33 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) devices, 52 accountability systems, and 19 additional face pieces. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities. I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety at the Burbank Fire Department, providing better service to area residents and businesses.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
06.15.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Chicago 19th Ward Alderman Matt O’Shea, State Senator Bill Cunningham, and State Rep. Fran Hurley will hold a Senior Fair on Monday, June 20th, at Mount Greenwood Park in Chicago. The fair will give local seniors an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as area organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. The date, time, and location for the upcoming fair is: Monday, June 20 10:00 a.m. – Noon Mt. Greenwood Park 3721 West 111th Street For more information, call 773-948-6223.
06.14.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded Midway Airport an $11.8 million grant to improve safety at the airport. The grant will pay for the rehabilitation of 4,747 feet of runway to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement. “I am proud to announce this federal grant which will help maintain and improve the infrastructure of a facility that is a major economic engine for both the surrounding area and the region,” Rep. Lipinski said. “For the record number of passengers flying in and out of Midway Airport, this investment will help ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible. I will continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway and the neighborhoods and communities that surround it.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee.
05.27.2016	The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, including Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), has passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016. The bill authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to develop and maintain America’s vital water infrastructure, including the locks and dams that mitigate flooding and facilitate commerce in Northeastern Illinois. Before final approval, two amendments authored by Rep. Lipinski were added to the bill. The first requires the Corps of Engineers to coordinate with local water agencies during the planning of navigation or ecosystem projects so that water supply or storm water management efforts can be considered and integrated into the Corps’ work. Lipinski is currently co-chair of the Clean Water Caucus, which focuses on cutting-edge technologies and innovative techniques and approaches to keeping our water clean. Lipinski’s second amendment requires the Corps of Engineers to publish an annual report on the amount of foreign goods they are procuring for use in civil works construction projects. Not only do American taxpayers deserve to know how their money is being spent, but it allows domestic manufacturers to analyze the Corps’ needs and find ways to work with them to keep American manufacturing competitive. “This legislation invests in one of our greatest resources, our vast transportation network served by ships and barges,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It modernizes critical parts of this network, which will help lead to economic growth and middle-class jobs for the Third District and the nation.” WRDA authorizes 28 infrastructure projects, including flood mitigation measures along the Des Plaines River. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee approved their Water Resources bill in April. The bill approved by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee now moves to the full House for a vote.
05.24.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is joining the Energy Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) to announce funding for 14 projects as part of ARPA-E’s newest program: Single-Pane Highly Insulating Efficient Lucid Design (SHIELD). SHIELD project teams across the country, including at Argonne National Lab in Lemont, are developing innovative materials and structures that can reduce the heat lost through single-pane windows by more than half during the cold winter months. “As one of the few members of Congress trained as an engineer, I'm extremely interested in supporting advanced technical research with the potential to yield lasting benefits for all Americans,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Companies and countries around the world are racing to develop new energy technologies, and we need to make sure America is positioned to be the global leader in the field. I will continue to push for more funding for research and development at Argonne, which will not only lead to new technologies for our nation but also lead to new companies and jobs. This funding will help develop products that save both energy and money by improving the energy efficiency of windows during cold winter months, something we can all use in northern Illinois.” Many buildings have single-pane windows that do not insulate a building or its occupants well, and complete replacement of single-pane windows with efficient, modern windows is not always feasible due to cost, changes in appearance, and other concerns. Retrofitting, rather than replacing single-pane windows, can reduce heat loss and save roughly the amount of electricity needed to power 32 million U.S. homes each year. Argonne National Laboratory and its partners are developing a thin, transparent foam that can be manufactured with a low-cost, continuous fabrication process to improve thermal insulation and soundproofing in single-pane windows. ARPA-E advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private-sector investment. ARPA-E awardees are unique because they are developing entirely new ways to generate, store, and use energy.
05.23.2016	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and John Moolenaar (MI-4), co-chairs of the recently formed Congressional Chemistry Caucus, issued the following statement after lawmakers announced that a bipartisan agreement has been reached on the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA): “As the co-chairs of the House Chemistry Caucus, we have been strong proponents of Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) reform throughout the legislative process and are excited that the House-Senate agreement improves the current TSCA law. We are pleased to support this reform legislation and encourage others to do so. The agreement is supported by both the chemical industry and environmental organizations. All sides have come together to find common ground and compromise in this legislation. “TSCA is a vital law that will ensure that the new chemicals and materials developed every day will not have a toxic effect on human health. We are pleased that the new agreement will bring stricter scrutiny for new chemicals and a reasonable balance for states in the review process. Chemistry is vital for our quality of life and economic growth, and reforming TSCA is essential to guaranteeing that the chemical and materials industry in the U.S. will continue to grow in a manner consistent with our human health and environment.” The TSCA legislation is expected to be on the House floor this week. The bipartisan Congressional Chemistry Caucus has 25 members from the House of Representatives.
05.20.2016	An important amendment for veterans cosponsored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was recently approved in the House. The amendment expands the SkillBridge job training program by directing unit commanders to encourage participation for departing service members. It also directs the Department of Defense to perform a comprehensive study so that they can evaluate and improve the program as needed. “The SkillBridge Initiative helps returning veterans by providing them with job training and apprenticeship programs in areas that span every sector of the workforce,” stated Rep. Lipinski on the House floor before the vote took place. “This program has already trained around 4,500 service members, and the 18 SkillBridge programs claim to have an employment rate of 100 percent so far. Encouraging participation will help more of our veterans find employment when they re-enter civilian life.” The amendment was approved as part of a larger package, and now moves on to the Senate.
05.19.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) released their report on the economic impact of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): “The ITC report shows that even under the best circumstances the TPP will continue the erosion of the American middle class. If approved, manufacturers and their hard-working employees will be hit the hardest by this trade agreement, with our manufacturing trade deficit increasing by a whopping $24.1 billion per year. “Unfortunately, even that bad number may be overly optimistic; my testimony included in this report outlines past issues with the ITC’s analysis of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement. Contrary to the ITC’s rosy predictions before that trade deal was passed, American workers have suffered greatly under it. My testimony on the TPP also outlined areas that I believe the International Trade Commission should have taken into consideration when completing their economic analysis of the TPP, specifically the lack of attention to rules of origin provisions, currency manipulation, and the potential for depressed wages and job losses. Unfortunately, they didn’t include those critical concerns. “Americans can’t afford another trade deal crafted by multinationals for themselves. I will continue to work to defeat TPP and any other trade agreement that doesn’t benefit America’s middle class, raise wages, and safeguard the consumer and environmental protections that we rely upon.”
05.18.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Oak Lawn Fire Department has been awarded $144,182 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The Operations and Safety Fire Grant will be used to help purchase protective fire equipment, including 18 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBAs) devices and 43 additional face pieces. “All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job,” Rep. Lipinski said. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do their best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
05.17.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has joined House members from both sides of the aisle to pass several bills to help combat a growing problem for families across the region and our nation, opioid abuse and addiction. “Congress can’t solve this national dilemma on its own, but it can certainly help give various groups and organizations the tools they need to begin to confront a serious issue that does not get the attention it deserves,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This is just a start. I will continue to fight for more action to combat this crisis situation that no community in my district is immune to.” Legislation passed by the House of Representatives to help address national opioid problem: · The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act sets up new flexible grant programs to combat opioid abuse. One is directed at states, and the other is directed at veterans. An amendment attached to this bill makes drug take-back programs eligible for grants. · The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act requires the VA to update its opioid therapy clinical guidelines and track opioid use by veterans. · The Good Samaritan Assessment Act requires a Government Accountability Office (GAO) assessment of state and local Good Samaritan laws that protect bystanders from prosecution when they call emergency services to help someone who is overdosing. · The OPEN Act requires the Department of Justice to carry out an evaluation of a new anti-opioid abuse grant program and requires the Department of Health and Human Services to carry out evaluations of its own existing anti-opioid abuse programs. · Another bill establishes a task force to review and craft best practices for addressing pain and using pain medication. It must involve a variety of stakeholders from across federal agencies, medical providers and institutions, mental health and addiction treatment providers, chronic pain patients, and people in recovery from addiction. A notable amendment to this legislation requires the study of co-prescribing the anti-addiction medicine naloxone with opioid prescriptions for pain. · The Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act allows nurse practitioners and physician assistants (not just doctors) to prescribe and administer medication-assisted treatment for addiction. It also says that regulatory caps on the number of patients practitioners can serve should be raised. · The Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act asks the GAO to report on the availability of inpatient and outpatient substance abuse treatment facilities. · The Reducing Unused Medications Act allows partial prescription fills at the request of the patient. · Lali’s Law creates a grant program for states to train pharmacists to dispense overdose reversal medication to drug users or their families without the need for a prescription. · The John Thomas Decker Act says the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) must publish and distribute educational materials to help prevent youth addiction following sports injuries. · The Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act reauthorizes residential treatment grant programs targeting pregnant and postpartum women with substance use disorders. · The Opioid Review Modernization Act says the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) must seek advice from a special advisory committee before approving new opioid drugs lacking abuse-deterrent properties. There would also be new rules governing the process of changing opioid labeling on pediatric medications. All of this legislation has been put into one package and sent to the Senate for conference.
05.16.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joins Third District 2016 Congressional Art Competition winner Cain Nocera and his parents for a special ceremony at Lyons Township High School. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) visited Lyons Township High School today to announce that freshman Cain Nocera is the Third District’s winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. He presented Nocera with a certificate during a surprise ceremony attended by his parents, teachers, and administrators. The La Grange resident’s photograph, appropriately titled “Veteran,” shows a homeless vet in downtown Chicago. The digital image will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year alongside the winning pieces from congressional districts from across the country. Nocera will also receive two roundtrip tickets for the exhibition opening this summer in Washington, D.C. “Mr. Nocera’s talent for photography is on full display with this powerful image of a homeless veteran,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Thank you to Cain for showcasing the power of art. To the person in this photo and all veterans, I say thank you for your service. For your sacrifices, you deserved better when you came home. We are making progress in treating both the physical and mental scars of war, but we still have a long way to go. I have and will continue to support legislation that provides funding and research towards managing both the physical and mental toll of military service, and to take care of all veterans in the district and across the country.” “Cain excels in capturing the narrative and personality of his subjects in a way that takes photographers decades to perfect,” stated Lyons Township High School art teacher Carlene Kinzie. “He plans on taking more photography classes at LT and is considering pursuing a career within the photography field.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of high school students in their districts.
05.05.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after recent reports that the U.S. Treasury Department is considering loosening restrictions on Iran’s access to the U.S. dollar in business transactions: “Since the implementation of last year’s Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the well-intentioned but flawed Iran nuclear agreement, Iran has violated the agreement and other international restrictions as well as continued its belligerent behavior in the region. Just since the beginning of this year, Iran has detained American sailors, conducted multiple ballistic missile tests, continued to support the Assad regime with arms and special forces, and moved forward on the purchase of advanced arms. “Despite these violations and provocations, the Administration is now considering lifting some of the restrictions placed on Iran’s access to the U.S. dollar for use in business transactions. This would be an additional relief of sanctions on Iran beyond what was included in the JCPOA. These reports are extremely concerning and disappointing given that the Administration has repeatedly informed Congress that no further sanctions relief would be made, especially in terms of access to the U.S. dollar or the U.S. banking system. “In fact, a month prior to the adoption of the nuclear agreement on October 18, 2015, Adam Szubin, Acting Under Secretary at the Department of Treasury, stated that ‘Iran will not be able to open bank accounts with U.S. banks, nor will they be able to access the U.S. banking sector, even for that momentary transaction to, what we call, dollarize a foreign payment.’ Whether the Administration is now going back on that statement or searching for a different loophole that allows Iran to get around longstanding financial sanctions, the bottom line is that the Administration promised Congress and the American people that these sanctions put in place to counter Iran’s support of terrorism would not be relieved. “In addition, the Administration has announced that the Department of Energy would purchase 32 metric tons of Iranian heavy water. Even if Iran is allowed to sell excess heavy water under the JCPOA, there are many unanswered questions about this specific deal: these questions include whether the Administration perceives this as a one-time purchase or if future purchases are contemplated, whether the heavy water purchase used taxpayer money, and what assurances the Administration has that these funds will not be used to support terrorism or President Assad. I strongly feel that our government should go no further in enabling Iran’s nuclear program or access to U.S. currency. “I voted against the Iran nuclear agreement because it gave Iran too much and required them to give up too little. Now the White House is considering enabling Iran’s bad behavior and not following through on their pledge to hold Iran accountable for all violations and to pursue sanctions on their other destabilizing policies. We must continue to restrict Iran from access to the U.S. dollar and American banks, and become more, not less, vigilant in restraining Iran. The current path is only a path to more war, death, and destabilization in the Middle East. We must turn away from this path and move down a path of peace.”
04.27.2016	Today, Congressman Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) and Congressman John Moolenaar (R-MI) announced the formation of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus. The Congressional Chemistry Caucus will serve as an informal group of members dedicated to issues related to the transformative science of chemistry. The mission of the bipartisan caucus is to educate members of Congress and the public about the benefits of chemistry in today’s society and the importance of sound science in public policy. The Caucus will also strive to promote and advance policies aimed at encouraging today’s students to become the chemists of tomorrow. Congressman Lipinski and Congressman Moolenaar issued the following statement: “Every day, Americans use products that have been created and improved by the science of chemistry. Chemistry has made America a world leader in research and innovation and it employs more than 800,000 Americans with good-paying jobs. As co-chairs of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus, we are honored that 12 colleagues have joined us in a bipartisan effort to form the nucleus of this caucus. “It is our hope that this caucus will be a good resource for getting the word out about different aspects of chemistry and the chemical industry, while also increasing the public’s understanding of chemistry and promoting the importance of STEM education.” Co-Chair Backgrounds Lipinski is a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. As a former teacher, he has pushed for improvements in STEM education throughout his career. Moolenaar has a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Hope College in Holland, Michigan. He is also a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee and has supported STEM education initiatives as a member of Congress and previously in the Michigan legislature. Members of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus The other members of the Congressional Chemistry Caucus are Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Congressman Mo Brooks (R-AL), Congressman Buddy Carter (R-GA), Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), Congressman Jeff Denham (R-CA), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Congressman Bill Foster (D-IL), Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY), Congressman Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Congressman Mark Takano (D-CA), Congressman Tim Walberg (R-MI), and Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (R-IN). Support for the Congressional Chemistry Caucus The leadership of the American Chemistry Council, the American Chemical Society, and the National Association of Chemical Distributors released the following statements: “We pledge to work with our colleagues in the chemistry enterprise, and members of the caucus, to advance responsible and balanced policy to help facilitate the growth of the chemistry enterprise and boost investment in federal research and development, foster innovation, improve STEM education, facilitate advanced manufacturing and protect the environment. Chemistry is the central science that is unlocking solutions to global challenges and our members are those global solution providers.” -- Thomas Connelly Jr., American Chemical Society Director and CEO, Ph.D. “The U.S. business of chemistry is facing a historic opportunity for new growth that we haven’t seen in a generation. Thanks to the shale-energy boom, so far $164 billion in announced new capital spending could lead to $105 billion per year in new chemical industry output and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs across the U.S. economy. Our member companies are investing billions of dollars to keep this momentum going, but the right policies are essential for our industry to fully realize its potential as an engine of innovation, economic growth, and new jobs. The newly formed Chemistry Caucus can play an instrumental role to make sure that Congress appreciates the essential nature of chemistry and does its part to foster this resurgence.” -- Calvin M. Dooley, President and CEO of the American Chemistry Council “Chemical distribution companies process, formulate, blend, re-package, warehouse, transport, and market chemical products for 750,000 customers, generate $30 billion in economic output, and employ more than 70,000 workers. As an industry all too aware of the impactful role of chemistry in the U.S. economy, it is vital that lawmakers create policies that foster innovation while also investing in our future workforce through STEM education initiatives. The Congressional Chemistry Caucus will serve as the vehicle to bring policymakers together to make meaningful decisions about these issues.” -- Eric Beyer, President of the National Association of Chemical Distributors
04.22.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) tentatively granted Norwegian Air International's (NAI) petition to operate long-haul flights to the U.S.: “I am deeply troubled by the Department of Transportation’s tentative approval of Norwegian Air International's (NAI) petition for a foreign air carrier permit. NAI’s flag-of-convenience business model would undermine international labor standards and fair competition. Despite the Norwegian name, NAI seeks to operate aircraft registered in Ireland by crews working under Singaporean employment contracts. This scheme puts domestic airlines at a competitive disadvantage, and threatens the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of American workers. “In 2014, I joined nearly 200 of my colleagues in a letter to DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx expressing opposition to this petition. In addition, the House has passed an amendment that requires DOT to ensure that foreign air operators’ applications follow the terms of the U.S.-E.U. agreement, which NAI’s business model does not. This approval is not in the public’s best interest, and could result in serious consequences for the American airline industry and its hard-working employees. I strongly urge Secretary Foxx to consider the significant opposition that has already been voiced by Congress, the airline industry, and its labor partners, and deny NAI final approval.”
04.18.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting three Senior Fairs during the next two weeks in Orland Park, Lockport, and Burbank. The fairs will give area seniors an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. “I encourage residents of the Third Congressional District to come to one of my upcoming Senior Fairs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “If you are not able to make it to any of these events, you can always call or stop by one of my offices, located in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, and Orland Park.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming fairs are as follows: Senior Fairs Friday, April 22 10:00 a.m. – Noon Orland Park Cultural Center 14760 Park Lane, Orland Park In conjunction with special guest Orland Park Mayor Dan McLaughlin Monday, April 25 10:00 a.m. – Noon Lockport American Legion 15052 Archer Ave., Lockport Monday, May 2 10:00 a.m. – Noon Louis S. Viverito Senior Center 7745 South Leamington Ave., Burbank In conjunction with special guest Stickney Township Supervisor Lou Viverito For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov or call 773-948-6223.
04.18.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is leading a bipartisan group of more than 50 members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to stop China from being granted market economy status (MES), which would be a disaster for American workers. When China joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, a provision was put in place labeling China as a non-market economy, which allows the United States to implement significant anti-dumping duties to protect American companies from unfair Chinese trading practices. China has stated that it believes this provision expires at the end of this year. “We understand that some argue that [Article 15 of China’s Protocol of Accession to the WTO] obligates granting China market economy status for the purposes of calculating anti-dumping duties. However, there are strong arguments that this provision creates no such obligation,” stated Rep. Lipinski and his colleagues in a letter to United States Trade Representative Ambassador Michael Froman and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker. “The anti-dumping law is a vital tool to ensure that unfairly priced Chinese imports do not injure U.S. companies and workers. This unfair trade is often due to Chinese production overcapacity, particularly in the steel and aluminum industries, and has had harmful effects on U.S. producers. Any consideration of the implications of the December 11, 2016, deadline must be consistent with U.S. law and should reflect the importance of effectively addressing unfairly priced Chinese imports.” During last Thursday’s State of Steel Hearing in Washington, D.C., Congressman Lipinski reiterated the potential widespread economic harm that could transpire in the event that China is granted MES. At the hearing, industry stakeholders said that granting China market economy status would have a devastating impact on American steel, aluminum, and other commodity industries. “China continues to utilize market-distorting tactics such as limitations on market access, export subsidies, state-owned enterprises, and import controls to support its own firms to the detriment of the global economy,” said Rep. Lipinski and his colleagues in a separate letter to Ambassador David O’Sullivan, Head of the Delegation of the European Union to the United States. “Additionally, China continues to manipulate its currency in order to promote exports. China’s policies continue to protect its state-controlled local firms from international competitors, at the expense of the United States and the European Union. Based on these policies, China does not operate as a market economy. Given that the U.S. and the European Union are currently in negotiations on a new trade deal, it is important to consider a universal approach to China’s trade and economic policies. The European Union should reject granting MES to China, and to similarly reject any proposal to use China’s own prices and costs in anti-dumping calculations.”
04.05.2016	Following recent reminders in Flint, Michigan, and other locales of the dangerous health effects of lead on human health, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is moving forward with his initiative to get lead out of aviation fuel. The FAA has announced that it has selected two unleaded fuels for further testing as part of an initiative Lipinski has been pushing for almost ten years to move the entire general aviation community, including small airplanes, away from leaded fuel. The testing will begin this summer and conclude in 2018. “Decades after lead was removed from gasoline, it is way past time that lead is removed from the fuel used in general aviation aircraft,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Knowing the high level of danger that lead poses to human health, especially the health of children, I have made it a priority on the Aviation Subcommittee to get the lead out of aviation gas. The FAA’s announcement is a positive step towards finally reaching the important goal of eliminating this health hazard.” During consideration of the 2012 FAA reauthorization bill, Lipinski led the effort to authorize a collaborative research program on alternative fuel between the FAA, NASA, and industry stakeholders. Since then, he has consistently secured funding for the program during the annual appropriations process. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee marked up the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act in February, which would direct the FAA Administrator to allow the use of an acceptable, unleaded alternative fuel. About 167,000 general aviation aircraft in the U.S. currently rely on leaded gasoline for safe operation. The majority of commercial airplanes do not use leaded fuel.
03.31.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is releasing draft text of legislation he has written to help scientists at universities and labs by reducing the regulatory burden on scientific research funded by the Federal Government. The bill would implement the recommendations of a National Academy of Sciences report last year which found that increasing regulatory burdens on scientists are “diminishing the effectiveness of the nation’s research investment.” In particular, it would establish a panel of experts from the university research community to review existing regulations on research and recommend improvements. “I’ve heard from many university researchers that the rules they have to comply with are taking up more and more of their time and preventing them from accomplishing their research,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science Committee, I have worked to make it easier for scientists to spend more time on research and less time on paperwork. Not only would this proposal help get more research done that will spur innovation and improve people’s lives, it would also increase the effectiveness of taxpayer dollars spent on research.” The Council on Governmental Relations and the Association of American Universities, which together represent over 200 U.S. research universities and institutes, issued a joint statement in response to the proposal:“We greatly appreciate Rep. Lipinski’s efforts to reduce federal research regulatory burden. Our associations fully endorse his proposed legislation, which would advance a number of important recommendations from the recent National Academies report, Optimizing the Nation’s Investment in Academic Research. When regulations are inefficient, they cause waste in federal research programs. We look forward to working with Rep. Lipinski to move this bill through the legislative process with the shared goal of reducing unnecessary regulatory cost and burden while ensuring accountability and proper government oversight.” Congressman Lipinski is asking for comment on this proposal from members of the research community and intends to introduce the proposal in the coming weeks. The draft text can be found here and a summary of the proposal’s provisions here.
03.21.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy’s Lab-Corps program has launched a second round of clean energy entrepreneurship training sessions. The $2.3 million program, started in 2014 with the help of Lipinski, is based on the National Science Foundation’s highly successful Innovation Corps (I-Corps) model that trains university-based faculty and students. Lab-Corps aims to accelerate the transfer of clean energy technologies from our national laboratories – including Argonne National Lab in Lemont – to the commercial marketplace by training lab researchers to successfully transition their discoveries into high-impact, real world technologies. This is part of Lipinski’s ongoing efforts to increase American jobs by taking advantage of the innovations created with the help of federally-funded research. In doing so, not only are more jobs created, but Americans get a better return on the investment of their tax dollars. “The I-Corps program was initially developed from a course conceived by Silicon Valley serial entrepreneur Steve Blank, and has led to the creation of many new companies in its short existence,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I advocated for the development of this program and urged the Energy Secretary to allow scientists at Argonne to participate. Like I-Corps, Lab-Corps represents a low-cost way to facilitate the transition of laboratory discoveries into successful companies and high quality jobs that boost economic growth and American competitiveness.” Fourteen different teams of researchers from seven national labs have begun the seven-week Lab-Corps entrepreneurial boot-camp at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. These researchers are focused on commercializing promising sustainable transportation, renewable power, and energy efficiency technologies.
03.18.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after the State Department declared that the atrocities committed by ISIL against Christians and other religious groups are genocide: “While it was delayed too long, I applaud the Administration for finally declaring that ISIL’s actions in Iraq and Syria against Christians and other religious and ethnic minorities are without question genocide. This designation – the first one since the United States declared genocide was occurring in Darfur in 2004 – helps focus the world's attention and hopefully will spur action to save those threatened by these heinous acts. It also builds the foundation towards eventual war crimes trials for the ‘monsters’ that have and continue to slaughter people solely based on their faith. “With bipartisan pressure from Congress – including a measure I helped introduce – and the support of people and organizations across our country, including the Knights of Columbus, the Administration has finally delivered a message to the international community that there is no doubt that Christians and other groups are being targeted by ISIL. Many of these Christian communities can trace back all the way to the earliest Christians and they are critical to maintaining any future peace that is established in the region.”
03.11.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) held his annual “All-American Boy and Girl” Award Ceremony for 7th and 8th grade students last night at Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills. One hundred finalists were selected from over one thousand applicants to appear before a panel of judges for a formal interview. Following the interviews, 14 winners were selected, three girls and four boys (tie for third place) from each grade. “We had another amazing group of young men and women from across the district to choose from this year,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “I want to congratulate all of our winners as well as their families, friends, teachers, coaches, clergy, and others who have helped them along the way. The finalists are all well-rounded individuals, working hard in and out of the classroom, and making a difference in their communities. With the growing challenges facing our region, nation, and world, I urge them to continue applying themselves in school and contributing to their communities. They are our future leaders.” The top students in each grade are: • Seventh Grade Girls: Rose Marienne Go, A. Vito Martinez School (1); Maeve Geraghty, St. Cajetan School (2); Isabella Gonzalez, Our Lady of the Snows School (3) • Seventh Grade Boys: Luke James Hogan, St. John of the Cross School (1); Seamus Kelly, St. Cajetan School (2); Jamil Allan, Universal School (3); Cody Butenhoff, A.Vito Martinez School (3) • Eighth Grade Girls: Brigid Barkmeier, St. Catherine of Alexandria School (1); Abigail Skarbek, St. George School (2); Kayla Baldwin, Elizabeth Sutherland School (3) • Eighth Grade Boys: John Francis Zech, St. John of the Cross School (1); Kevin Phelan, St. Catherine of Alexandria School (2); Christopher Considine, St. Bruno (3); Daniel Villalobos, Our Lady of the Snows School (3) Each finalist was awarded a certificate for their hard work and superior essay. The 14 winners were awarded a special plaque and other prizes.
03.08.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is accepting submissions from all high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C., in June for the exhibition opening. Runners-up will have their artwork prominently displayed in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year. All submissions must include the Student Information and Release Form. Submission Guidelines: · All artwork must be two-dimensional · Each piece can be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4” including the frame · If the winning piece is not framed, the artist will be required to frame the artwork within the sizing guidelines · Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds · Each entry must be completely original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws · Winning artwork will be on display in Washington for one year and will not be available to be returned to the winner during that period · Accepted media for artwork are as follows: o Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. o Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, ink, markers o Collage o Prints: lithographs, silk screen, block prints o Mixed Media: use of more than two media such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. o Computer-Generated Art o Photography All entries must be received at one of the Congressman’s district offices, located in Chicago (6245 South Archer Ave.), Lockport (222 East 9th Street), Oak Lawn (5210 West 95th Street, Suite 104), and Orland Park (14700 South Ravinia Ave.) by Tuesday, April 12, 2016. If you have any questions, please contact the Congressman’s Chicago office at (773) 948-6223, or go online to lipinski.house.gov. The winning artists will be notified in early May.
03.08.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today after Iran test-fired several ballistic missiles, ignoring U.N. resolutions that call on them to stop testing these missiles: “With the ink barely dry on last year’s well-intentioned, but flawed nuclear agreement, Iran has again thumbed their nose at the world with another ballistic missile test. This comes on the heels of their test of a medium-range missile in October of last year that clearly violated ongoing U.N. sanctions imposed in 2010. Along with these missile tests, Iran has conducted other hostile actions in recent months including efforts to obtain advanced arms, the detention of more Americans, and continuing support for Syria and terrorist groups like Hezbollah. “My top concern has been and always will be what is best for the security of the United States, both now and in the future, and Iran’s latest blatant disregard for the rules cannot be ignored. Iran already possesses missiles that can reach throughout the Middle East, so their development of more advanced missiles is a threat to the security of others outside the region. It is for this reason that the U.N. Security Council has banned Iran from developing, testing, or procuring ballistic missile technology. “During last year’s debate on the nuclear agreement – which I voted against because it gave Iran too much and required them to give up too little – the White House consistently pledged to hold Iran accountable for all violations of U.N. Security Council resolutions. So far, the Administration has not vigorously followed through. In the wake of this most recent violation of U.N. resolutions, I’m calling for strong sanctions and urging the Administration to take a leadership role in the U.N. on this matter of grave importance.”
02.29.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has written a letter to stakeholders in the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency (CREATE) program to strongly urge them to ensure that projects with public benefits are prioritized – especially highway-rail grade separations – as the program moves forward. Lipinski’s letter came as the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) announced on Friday a Notice of Funding Opportunity requesting applications for the new Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grants, as authorized by the Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects (NSFHP) program. DOT also released grant guidelines for the freight program, including that freight rail projects must have public benefits. The Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which Congressman Lipinski played a key role in shaping and passing last year, funds the NSFHP at $4.5 billion for fiscal years 2016 through 2020, including $800 million for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. “As the senior Illinois Member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure (T&I) Committee and the state's only member from that committee on the House-Senate Conference Committee that finalized the recently passed FAST Act, I was pleased to ensure that this legislation included $4.5 billion in competitive grants over 5 years through the new Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects program,” stated Rep. Lipinski in his letter to stakeholders. “As a member of the T&I Committee's Special Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation in the last Congress, I made the creation of a program that could benefit CREATE a top priority, and with the FAST Act, I was able to get that accomplished.” Lipinski successfully fought to ensure that grade separations and freight rail improvements stayed in as eligible projects in the legislation so that CREATE could effectively compete. Additionally, he worked to make sure that grade separations were not subject to any funding caps given their importance to the public. The grant guidelines released by DOT on Friday specifically make railway-highway grade crossing projects eligible, and state that for freight rail projects “Federal funds can only support project elements that provide public benefits.” “With the creation of this freight program, which itself constrains funding to projects that benefit both the general public and the efficient movement of freight, we are in a position to refocus our collective efforts on more effectively leveraging federal resources towards the next phase of CREATE, with a greater emphasis on projects with public benefits,” Lipinski said. “Unfortunately, as CREATE has advanced over the past decade, many of the projects directly benefiting Chicago area residents and commuters have lagged behind. As funding options become available, it is imperative to tend to all aspects of CREATE. “However, capitalizing on this opportunity will require an all-in approach from all stakeholders, and it is critical that we work collaboratively to complete projects that benefit not only our individual interests, but those with a priority on direct and specific public benefits, such as highway-rail grade separations. I am confident that CREATE projects will be competitive under this new freight program and that we can improve the quality of life in the region while finally bringing the Chicago area freight rail network into the 21st century.” CREATE has been a significant beneficiary of federal funding. It has been over a decade since the first significant infusion of federal funds for CREATE occurred. Congressman Lipinski secured $100 million for CREATE through an earmark in the 2005 surface transportation reauthorization bill. This kick-started a number of projects in CREATE and it started a shift in how policymakers conceptualized infrastructure investment, thus beginning the process of transitioning from a siloed approach to a multimodal perspective. Since 2005, Lipinski has helped lead successful efforts to secure additional federal funding for CREATE, including a $133 million grant from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and a total of $110 million in TIGER grants in 2010 and 2012. “As federal funding opportunities are announced, I look forward to working with CREATE stakeholders to develop a strategy to forge ahead on completing projects that benefit the general public and goods movement, and to submit competitive applications to the grant program that I helped put in place for this very purpose,” said Lipinski.
02.26.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced a resolution in support of National Engineers Week, which is celebrated every year during the week of George Washington’s birthday. As one of just a dozen engineers in Congress, Lipinski introduces this resolution annually in order to highlight the critical role that engineers play in building our nation and to encourage more young people to pursue a degree in engineering. This year's theme is “Engineers Make a World of Difference.” “As a former teacher, I continually push for improvements in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I believe that giving a boost to STEM education at all levels is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and our young people receive an education that will allow them to succeed in the jobs of today and the future.” National Engineers Week focuses on celebrating how engineers make a difference in our world, increasing public dialogue about the need for more engineers, and bringing engineering to life for children, educators, and parents. Yesterday, Congressman Lipinski spoke at a Society of Women Engineers “Introduce a Girl to Engineering” event. He is speaking tonight at the annual Chicagoland Engineering Awards Dinner where NASA engineer Dr. Aprille Ericsson will be receiving the prestigious Washington Award. Lipinski is a leader in Congress in promoting the commercialization of federally funded scientific research; improving American manufacturing; strengthening cybersecurity; developing safer and more efficient transportation technologies; advancing alternative energy development; improving STEM education at all levels; and ensuring that America leads the way in next-generation technologies. At the local level, he has worked to promote the importance of STEM education and to encourage students – through programs such as Project Infinite Green – to consider careers in STEM fields. He has done this through classroom visits, meeting with Third District students visiting Washington, D.C., and publicizing local programs that aim to increase student performance and interest in STEM education.
02.24.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is pleased to announce that starting on March 14th of this year riders on the Heritage Corridor line will have another option for getting home each weekday when Metra adds a mid-afternoon departure from Chicago. The 2:45 p.m. departure from Union Station will expand weekday service on the line from six to seven trains, three inbound in the morning and four outbound in the afternoon/evening, giving downtown commuters more options to get home. The train will make stops at Summit, Willow Springs, Lemont, and Lockport before arriving at its final destination in Joliet at 3:50 p.m. “After spending many years and countless hours fighting to get Heritage Corridor riders more service, I am happy to finally see another train added to this line,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This new departure time will mean more people in the southwestern suburbs and Will County will be able to spend less of their valuable time each day driving on congested roads or traveling to less convenient Metra stations. As the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I look forward to continuing to work to increase, enhance, and expand commuter rail service across my district and the entire region.” The new service required agreements from Canadian National, which owns the tracks and operates freight service on the line, as well as Amtrak. Metra will launch the service on March 14th with a press event including Congressman Lipinski, public officials, and other area stakeholders. “I want to thank Metra – especially CEO/Executive Director Don Orseno and board member Lemont Mayor Brian Reaves – for working to add this service to the Heritage Corridor,” stated Lipinski. “I am pleased that Canadian National and Amtrak have found a way to allow the addition of this train. There is great demand along this line and it will continue to grow. While this is a good first step, more certainly needs to be done to provide the service that the residents of southwestern Cook County and northeastern Will County deserve.”
02.24.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bill that cracks down on foreign companies cheating Americans by illegally avoiding customs duties has become law. Today, the President signed a comprehensive customs reform bill, H.R. 644, that includes Lipinski’s Customs Training Enhancement Act, H.R. 2015. The provision facilitates companies and trade groups sharing information with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, enabling the government to do a better job of identifying schemes that cheat American taxpayers by importing foreign goods without paying duties. This will help American manufacturers grow their businesses and add jobs, while also collecting hundreds of millions of dollars owed to American taxpayers for infractions of U.S. laws. “America’s manufacturing workers and taxpayers have been taken advantage of for too long by foreign companies that break our trade laws and evade Customs enforcement,” said Rep. Lipinski. “My bill will help level the playing field so American manufacturers have a fairer shot against their foreign competitors. Cheating by foreign firms has become more widespread at a time when American employers and workers are already hurting. Allowing impacted industries to provide Customs agents with the critical intelligence they need to spot cheaters is just common sense.” Under Rep. Lipinski’s provision, Customs and Border Protection would be required to seek out companies and trade groups that have information that can identify misrepresented shipments. That information, in turn, would be shared directly with Customs agents working on the front lines. TheCustoms Training Enhancement Act is modeled on a successful program forged between the steel industry and Customs and Border Protection in which company and industry officials have taught Customs agents how to spot products that have been deliberately mislabeled. Since 2001, importers and exporters of goods into and out of the United States have avoided paying over $600 million in duties, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office. Ninety percent of all transshipped or mislabeled items originated in China. Foreign companies have avoided duties by misclassifying and undervaluing products, or by shipping goods from one country to another on their way to the United States in order to disguise the country of origin.
02.23.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) received the Extra Mile Award last night during the Active Transportation Alliance’s 30th Anniversary Soiree for his continued support for cleaner, healthier transportation in the region and across the nation. The Active Transportation Alliance is a non-profit advocacy organization that works to improve conditions for bicycling, walking, and transit, and engage people in healthy and active ways to get around. As the most senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a life-long cyclist and runner, Lipinski worked last year to pass the first long-term road and transit bill in 10 years and ensure an increase in funding for public transit as well as bike and pedestrian projects. He successfully fought against cuts that would have been devastating to the CTA’s rapid transit modernization plans and helped create a program that can provide funding for the installation of safety equipment by Metra. Lipinski also added amendments to speed Amtrak’s development of a roll-on bike service and promote deployment of zero-emission buses. In addition, he spearheaded a successful effort in December to expand and permanently extend a tax benefit for commuters who use public transit. “I am incredibly honored to receive the highest award given by the Active Transportation Alliance,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “I learned early in life the importance of active transportation. I remember enjoying my walk to grammar school, getting freedom with my Sears ten-speed bike, and taking the CTA bus to high school. Since then, I’ve continued to utilize all these forms of transportation, and I have worked in Congress to increase access to these healthy and clean transportation options that reduce congestion on our crowded roads. I thank the Active Transportation Alliance for this award and, more importantly, for all their work promoting active transportation.” Other honorees who received public service awards were former Chicago Tribune transportation reporter Jon Hilkevitch and an advocate for the Major Taylor Trail, Peter Taylor.
02.08.2016	This Thursday, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is scheduled to consider the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act that would extend the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) funding until 2022. As the most senior member from Illinois on the committee, and a member of the Aviation subcommittee, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has worked hard to include a number of important provisions in the bill, which was introduced by Committee Chairman Bill Shuster. The bill includes language from Lipinski that allows the FAA to conduct a pilot program that will allow air traffic controllers to remotely direct air traffic at airports by way of strategically placed cameras. This legislation could benefit airports such as the Lewis University Airport in Romeoville, which is considering a remote tower. “I continue to work with the Joliet Regional Port District, Lewis University Airport, and local elected officials to bring a tower to the airport,” said Rep. Lipinski. “My language in this bill will provide Lewis University Airport with the option of pursuing a remote tower if it is determined that that is the best option for the airport.” The proposed reauthorization bill also includes a variation of legislation originally authored by Lipinski that would allow passengers on domestic flights to recoup their checked baggage fees if the airline does not deliver their luggage in 24 hours. The clock on the 24-hour period would begin at the time of the arrival of the flight of the passenger at the destination at which the passenger was to retrieve the checked baggage. Lipinski’s bill set a much shorter time period for triggering a refund and he will continue to fight for this. “Right now, passengers who go through the inconvenience of lost and delayed baggage do so without the right to a refund,” stated Lipinski. “My legislation is just common sense. If you pay for a service, you should get that service or get your money back.” Additionally, the bill bans cell phone calls on flights. After proposed rules by the Department of Transportation and Federal Communications Commission would have permitted voice calls, Lipinski led a bipartisan letter signed by 77 members of Congress to protest this decision. These rules were delayed by his efforts and his request to continue the ban was heeded. The bill also contains a provision that would remove the operation and management of U.S. Air Traffic Control (ATC) from the FAA. As it currently stands, the bill would create a federally chartered, fully independent, not-for-profit corporation to operate and manage the ATC. This would be a major change to the current system. “Presently, the United States boasts the safest and most efficient aviation system in the world, but progress on NextGen, an effort to move the air traffic system from the ground-based radar system to a satellite-based system, has been delayed considerably,” said Lipinski. “The impetus for the creation of this not-for-profit corporation is said to be an effort to move NextGen forward more quickly. While I agree that we need to get this new technology implemented as soon as possible, I have significant concerns about whether moving ATC from the FAA to an independent corporation is the right path to take for our nation. I look forward to learning more about this just-unveiled proposal.”
02.05.2016	The U.S. Department of Energy has announced that SimpleFuel is the finalist for the million dollar H2 Refuel H-Prize Competition. The H-Prize was created by Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) H-Prize Act, which was passed into law in 2007. The purpose of the competition is to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and protect the environment by inspiring researchers to capitalize on hydrogen's tremendous promise as a clean fuel source. “I introduced the H-Prize Act and fought to get it enacted into law because I believe we need to tap into America’s great entrepreneurial talent to lead the development of alternative energy and work towards energy independence,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The H-Prize is a win for taxpayers, national security, the economy, and the environment. It provides funding that is relatively modest in the context of the federal budget, but still constitutes a substantial incentive for individuals and organizations to undertake cutting-edge research. And it sets specific technical benchmarks that submissions must meet before they can receive an award, ensuring the prize money will be well spent.” SimpleFuel plans to develop a home scale refueler that can provide a 1-kilogram fill to vehicles in 15 minutes at 700 bar using hydrogen produced via electrolysis, with a design that minimizes setback distances and reduces the physical footprint of the system. Data collection will begin in July and continue through October to evaluate the system based on the technical and cost criteria laid out in the guidelines. When the testing phase ends, the data will be analyzed to determine if SimpleFuel's system meets the criteria to win the million dollar prize.
02.01.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has nominated 16 students from the Third Congressional District for admission to the U.S. Service Academies for the graduating class of 2020. The nominees were recognized by Rep. Lipinski for their achievement at a ceremony on Saturday at Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 in Oak Lawn. “One of my proudest duties is nominating motivated and successful young men and women for admission to our prestigious service academies,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “My office receives hundreds of applications each year from an impressive collection of students with an unwavering dedication to service and their country. Just to be nominated to one of our nation’s service academies is a major accomplishment and a great honor. I thank all of the men and women who want to serve and wish them all the best.” The nominees are: U.S. Air Force Academy: Liliana Bautista, of Chicago, UIC College Prep; Jeremy Fejedelem, of Lemont, Lemont High School; James Scott, of Palos Park, Lemont High School U.S. Military Academy (West Point): Zachary Lenihan, of Chicago, St. Laurence High School; George Pina, of Chicago, Chicago Military Academy U.S. Naval Academy: Alexander Benoit, of Chicago, Marist High School; Pedro Castillo, Jr., of Chicago, UIC College Prep; Brian Conlisk, of Oak Lawn, Brother Rice High School; Michael Gurule, Jr., of Crest Hill, Lockport Township High School; Jorge Heredia, of Chicago, John F. Kennedy High School; Aaron Navarro, of Chicago, UIC College Prep; Daniel Reidy, of Chicago, Brother Rice High School; James Ryan, of Oak Lawn, Brother Rice High School; Erin Scudder, of Western Springs, Fenwick High School; Sydney Torres, of Oak Lawn, Richards High School; John Wheeler, of Homer Glen, Providence Catholic High School The admissions departments of the service academies make the final decision on acceptance. Each of the nominees will be notified by the service academies if they have been accepted.
01.31.2016	The IRS continues to warn consumers to guard against scam phone calls from thieves intent on stealing their money or their identity. Criminals pose as the IRS to trick victims out of their money or personal information. For several tips to help you avoid being a victim of these scams, click here.
01.27.2016	For ten consecutive years, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has introduced a resolution celebrating Catholic Schools Week and honoring the outstanding work of Catholic schools in the Chicago area and across the nation. The resolution expresses support for “the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States” and “the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the nation.” It recognizes that Catholic schools produce academically successful students, foster a commitment to service, family, and community, and accept students from all faiths and backgrounds. Catholic Schools Week, which begins this year on January 31st, has been an annual event since 1974. This year’s theme is “Catholic Schools: Communities of Faith, Knowledge, and Service.” Schools typically observe the annual celebration week with Masses, open houses, and other activities for students, families, parishioners, and community members. During the week, Rep. Lipinski will visit several schools in the district. “As a graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep in Chicago, I look forward to highlighting the achievements of America’s Catholic schools every year during Catholic Schools Week,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The Chicago Archdiocese and the Joliet Diocese run two of the best school systems in the country. The graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent and 97 percent of graduates go on to college or technical schools.” It is estimated that Catholic schools save Chicago area taxpayers over $1 billion annually by lowering the number of students in overburdened public schools.
01.22.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bill that would lead to a more efficient use of natural resources, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and relief for American taxpayers was buoyed today with the release of the Department of Interior’s (DOI) proposal to require the capture of methane emissions from drilling on public lands. Methane is over 25 times more potent of a greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, and recent studies from the Environmental Defense Fund show methane emissions from production sites are higher than previously thought. According to a University of Maryland study, emissions of natural gas from production sites can negatively impact air quality hundreds of miles away. Last year, Rep. Lipinski introduced H.R. 3140, the Accounting for Methane in Production through Loophole Elimination on Oil and Gas Royalties Act, which would eliminate exemptions that exist in current law, requiring oil and gas companies to pay royalties on all the gas removed from federal lands during production. Estimates by Taxpayers for Common Sense put the loss to taxpayers at $380 million from 2006 through 2013 from onshore leases, corresponding to 665.7 billion cubic feet of gas, roughly equivalent to the average amount of gas consumed by all households in the state of New York in a year. “Americans deserve to have their natural resources developed responsibly,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The Government Accountability Office estimates that about 40 percent of this natural gas could be economically captured from federal onshore leases, and this would increase royalty payments by about $23 million per year and reduce greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to up to 16.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide, the same as removing 3.1 million cars from the road.” According to the DOI, their proposal would reduce methane emissions while improving pipeline safety, set commonsense standards for methane and ozone-forming emissions from new and modified sources, establish new guidelines to reduce volatile organic compounds, enhance leak detection and emissions reporting programs, drive technology to reduce natural gas losses, and modernize natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure.
01.15.2016	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is applauding the announcement from the U.S. Department of Transportation that it is making the advancement of driverless and connected vehicle technology a priority. As a member of both the Science, Space, and Technology Committee and the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Lipinski has been the leader in Congress in promoting the research, development, and deployment of connected and driverless vehicle technology as quickly and safely as possible. In the surface transportation bill that was signed into law at the end of last year, Lipinski was able to add language which would help establish a connected and driverless vehicle university research center that encourages future innovation of these technologies, require a report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office on the readiness of the Department of Transportation for connected vehicles, and set up an interagency working group to coordinate research, technology commercialization, and workforce development. These provisions – which came from Lipinski’s Future TRIP Act – will speed the development and deployment of connected and driverless vehicles, which will improve safety, save fuel, and reduce congestion on our roads. “Driverless and connected vehicle technologies are arriving on the market at a rapid rate,” said Rep. Lipinski. “However, there is much work that needs to be done, both on the automotive side and in the infrastructure that will support driverless and connected vehicles on roads and in cities, before these technologies can be fully deployed. The U.S. is arriving at a crossroads on connected vehicle technologies, and our decisions now will have huge ramifications on the future of transportation and American economic competitiveness. We must do all we can to ensure the safety and security of the American people, both from collisions and cyber-threats. It is a good sign that the Department of Transportation recognizes and supports this critical endeavor.” Every year, more than 30,000 Americans die in automotive accidents. Connected and driverless vehicles could improve on this number dramatically. For example, the increased use of sensors on the front and rear of vehicles could allow cars to effectively “look around corners” and avert collisions due to drivers’ blind spots.
01.07.2016	In the wake of revelations last year that hackers stole the personal information of more than 20 million Americans from federal government databases, two subcommittees of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee are holding a joint hearing tomorrow to learn from private sector information technology experts what can be done to better protect Americans. The hearing will be conducted by the Research and Technology Subcommittee – where Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) serves as Ranking Member – and the Oversight Subcommittee. Lipinski has been at the forefront of protecting Americans from cyber attacks. In 2014, a bill he first introduced in 2010, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, was signed into law as part of broader legislation focusing on American cybersecurity. His bill increased the security of federal networks and information systems, improved the transfer of cybersecurity technologies to the marketplace, trained a cybersecurity workforce, and coordinated and prioritized federal cybersecurity research and development efforts. “It is no secret that cyber threats have gotten much worse over the past few years,” said Rep. Lipinski. “More than 20 million Americans had their personal information stolen when the federal government was hacked, and tens of millions of others have suffered from attacks on private companies. Systems critical to our nation have also been attacked, presenting the potential for large scale harm to our national security and economy. While the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act helps defend individual Americans as well as our nation, there is more work to be done. I look forward to hearing about how innovative security practices can better protect us from these threats.”
12.21.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Peter King’s (NY-2) legislation that increases and permanently extends a tax benefit that helps people who use public transit has been signed into law as part of a larger tax package. This benefit helps more people use public transportation, eases congestion on the roads, supports the economy, and increases quality of life. “The commuter tax benefit is essential to getting Americans to and from work each day,” said Congressman Lipinski. “Unfortunately, the benefit has not enjoyed permanent status and was reduced in 2014 from $235 to $130. Rep. Peter King and I have been pushing the Ways & Means committee all year to restore this benefit and make it permanent. Our most recent request was heeded and the benefit has been raised to provide parity with the parking benefit.” With 2.7 million workers using the transit benefit to travel between home and work, Lipinski and King applaud Congress for taking action to ensure that riders of public transportation are provided with the same benefits as other commuters. The benefit encourages public transportation ridership, which helps get cars off the road, reduces overall emissions, and eliminates lost time and delays.
12.20.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined this afternoon by the family of Captain Herbie Johnson, Chicago 19th Ward Alderman Matt O’Shea, and representatives from the Chicago Fire Department and U.S. Postal Service to officially rename Chicago’s Mount Greenwood Post Office the Captain Herbert Johnson Memorial Post Office Building. The 32-year veteran of the Chicago Fire Department and resident of Chicago’s Morgan Park community died on November 2, 2012, at the age of 54, while battling flames in the attic of a two-story home in Chicago’s Englewood neighborhood. The name change was made possible through a bill authored by Lipinski. “Herbie Johnson served heroically and selflessly,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Naming a postal facility honoring Captain Johnson is not just a tribute to him and his family, but to all first responders who bravely put their lives on the line every day, often for people they don’t even know. I am proud and honored to have worked on this lasting tribute to someone who made the ultimate sacrifice protecting others from harm. An outgoing, caring, and dedicated public servant, Herbie Johnson was and is a hero.” Captain Johnson learned public service from his family. Three of his brothers are Chicago police officers, a sister is a retired Chicago police officer, and another brother is a Chicago firefighter. He is survived by his wife of 28 years, Susan; two sons, Thomas and Michael; and daughter, Laurie. Over the years, Johnson served in almost every Chicago neighborhood as a firefighter. He taught over one thousand recruits as an instructor at the Robert J. Quinn Fire Academy. After the terrorist attacks on 9-11, he volunteered with the rescue efforts in New York City. In 2007, he received the state’s highest award for firefighters, the Illinois Medal of Honor, for rescuing several children from a burning apartment. Johnson was well liked throughout communities on Chicago’s Southwest Side. Almost every year he drove the fire truck down Western Avenue for the South Side Irish St. Patrick’s Day Parade. He also was known to cook for various charity events and offer his time at a camp for young burn victims. “Renaming this post office ensures that Captain Herbie Johnson, his family, and the sacrifices of all first responders will always be remembered and appreciated, and will hopefully serve as a powerful source of inspiration in the community,” Lipinski stated.
12.09.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced the Comfortable and Fair Flights Act of 2015 to ensure that airline passengers have some basic rights and protections when traveling on commercial airlines. “More and more, when airline passengers get on a flight they expect to suffer from uncomfortable conditions; as a frequent flyer I understand this,” said Rep. Lipinski. “One thing they should never have to worry about is access to a bathroom. Unfortunately, commercial flights are not required to depart with a functioning bathroom, sometimes forcing passengers to endure a trip without this basic necessity. Moreover, as ancillary fees continue to grow, the specter of an in-flight bathroom fee continues to loom in the background since first being broached in 2010. “Additionally, many of us are all too familiar with paying baggage fees and have come to accept them as part of the flying experience. While lost and delayed baggage rates are declining, passengers who suffer from this inconvenience do so without the right to a refund, even after hours or days of delay. Simply put, if you pay for a service, you should get that service promptly or get your money back.” Lipinski’s Comfortable and Fair Flights Act of 2015 would remedy these issues with three straightforward provisions. First, if the bathrooms on an aircraft are not functioning properly before departure, passengers would have the option to change their flight plans without incurring a change fee. Second, no commercial airline would be permitted to charge a fee for lavatory use. Third, airlines would be required to refund bag fees to passengers who have had the arrival of their bags delayed by two or more hours. “These are all common sense provisions that will help protect the consumer rights of passengers,” stated Lipinski.
12.01.2015	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined the other members of the House-Senate Conference Committee to announce that they have completed negotiations on the first long-term federal road and transit funding bill in 10 years. As the only House Transportation Committee member from Illinois appointed to work out the compromise, Lipinski helped make sure the final bill increases funding for local road and transit projects and addresses regional transportation priorities that will ease congestion and increase safety. The bill, known as the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, will be considered on the House floor on Thursday. “The fact that we were able to reach agreement on a road and transit funding bill is great news for the nation, especially people that live and work in northeastern Illinois,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I fought hard in the Transportation Committee, on the House floor, and in the conference negotiations, and was able to make this bill better at each step. Illinois will receive more money to ease congestion on our roads, including funding to specifically fix problems related to the region’s position as the nation’s freight transportation hub. This includes two new freight programs that will help fund the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency (CREATE) rail modernization plan, specifically encompassing money to build underpasses for roads that cross rail lines. Local transit riders will see improvements from the increased funding for Metra, CTA, and Pace. While this bill will not solve all of our congestion problems, it is a good step forward and will help improve quality of life in the region.” The FAST Act provides $281 billion for roads and transit over five years, with funding increasing 5.1% in the first year and 2% in subsequent years. Illinois will receive approximately $7.5 billion in guaranteed funding for roads; this averages out to $1.51 billion per year, up from $1.37 billion in 2015. The bill establishes two new programs to help regions – such as northeastern Illinois – that suffer from congestion caused by freight moving on trucks and trains. One program provides $11 billion in formula funds and the other provides $5 billion for grants to projects such as grade separations to eliminate blocked roads at rail crossings. Illinois will also receive nearly $3 billion in transit support, with the opportunity for more funding through competitive grant programs. The FAST Act includes $199 million in support for commuter rail agencies, such as Metra, to install and test Positive Train Control safety technology. The bill also includes the first Amtrak reauthorization in seven years, providing $8 billion over five years compared to $5.8 billion in four years in the original House bill. Congressman Lipinski was also able to remove from the final bill restrictions on the use of certain federal funds for transit projects; such limitations could have made the Core Capacity and New Starts components of the Red and Purple Line Modernization Projects infeasible without severely restricting CTA spending on other lines and routes. Funding for the Transportation Alternatives Program, which supports investment in infrastructure for bicycling, walking, and other active transportation means, was also maintained despite efforts to reduce or eliminate the program. In addition, Rep. Lipinski was able to include provisions in the bill that increase the safety of rail cars carrying oil and other hazardous materials, support the deployment of zero-emission buses, and help boost American manufacturing jobs by improving Buy American laws. In his role as the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science Committee, he was also able to add language to the research portion of the bill to speed the development and deployment of connected and autonomous vehicles, which will improve safety, save fuel, and reduce congestion on our roads.
11.19.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after voting to require new screening requirements on refugees from Syria and Iraq before they can enter the United States: The United States has historically been a refuge for those who are fleeing war and violence, and we must remain so. But the November 13th Paris terrorist attacks once again demonstrate that America must constantly work to reassess and strengthen our national security. Some have said our response to the attacks should be simply to close our country off to everyone. I don’t support that. But after listening to top American security officials, I believe there is more we can do to make sure that we are not permitting people who are threats to our nation to enter as refugees. While most of those seeking asylum in the United States are well-meaning families, children, and women fleeing the horrific war and terrorism in Syria, Iraq, and the surrounding countries, we need to have the highest level of certainty that no threats to the U.S. from ISIL or other groups enter under the cover of refugee status. The FBI, DHS, intelligence agencies, and others have been undertaking a lengthy vetting process for those who are being let in. But I think it will help strengthen our security to require extra steps to be taken to assure the concurrence of all intelligence and security agencies before allowing any Syrian or Iraqi refugee entrance into our country. This does not mean that we should turn our backs on all those refugees who are suffering. It is a horrific situation in Syria and Iraq, including groups such as ISIL committing genocide. The United States has been very generous and should continue to be generous in our financial support and other humanitarian assistance that we are providing to support refugees in camps in Turkey, Jordan, and Lebanon. I also believe there is more we could do to help end the wars in Syria and Iraq that would help alleviate the refugee crisis. American leadership is critical to ending the immense suffering that is ongoing in the region. As the crisis continues and we examine our refugee policy, security for America must be paramount and we cannot afford the risk of another terrorist attack here in the United States. We must maintain American security so that we can remain that shining city on the hill.
11.18.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski from Illinois and Senator Chris Murphy from Connecticut are fighting to protect and bolster Buy America provisions in the critical surface transportation reauthorization bill. As the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Lipinski helped pass a bipartisan six-year transportation bill in the House earlier this month. Following its passage, he was chosen to serve on the conference committee that will work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of this important legislation. In a letter to the House and Senate conferees, Lipinski and Murphy urge members to preserve certain aspects of both bills that strengthen Buy America provisions and boost American manufacturing, and to reject parts of the Senate bill that would weaken the Buy America requirements of the bill. With an opportunity to pass the first truly long-term surface transportation reauthorization since 2005, it is imperative that this law does everything possible to improve American infrastructure and create jobs for people around the country. “We support provisions in both bills that increase the domestic content of rolling stock procured with Federal Transit Administration funds from 60% to 70%,” said Lipinski and Murphy in the letter. “This modest increase is phased in incrementally over the next five years and will ensure that equipment used and paid for by taxpayers is manufactured with a higher percentage of American-made materials. These provisions should be maintained in the final conference report, along with part of the House-passed bill which makes Buy America compliance an eligible activity for technical assistance and will help the transit community comply with these important requirements.” Lipinski and Murphy are also encouraging committee members to maintain provisions found in the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 (PRRIA) as they reconcile differences between that legislation and the rail title included in the Senate bill. Part of PRRIA codifies Buy America requirements for Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) loans, a program that has the capacity to provide $35 billion in direct loans and loan guarantees for rail infrastructure improvements. As the House and Senate work to modernize this program in a manner that allows more applicants to utilize and spend down its balance, it is necessary that this program abides by domestic content standards that are applicable to other transportation investment programs. While the House and Senate bills contain the positive aforementioned provisions, there are two troubling provisions that Lipinski and Murphy are urging the committee to reject. First, part of the Senate bill increases Amtrak’s procurement threshold for Buy America applicability from $1 million to $5 million. Had this increased threshold been in place for this fiscal year, at least 85% of Amtrak’s anticipated capital projects would have been exempt from Buy America requirements. Additionally, this increase opens the possibility of procurements being segmented into smaller contracts to avoid meeting the new threshold, thus creating even more Buy America exemptions. Second, another aspect of the Senate bill changes how waiver requests for transit procurements are handled. Specifically, a provision in this section would shift responsibilities and burdens of proof in the waiver process in a manner that would make granting Buy America waivers easier. This would undermine successful past efforts to strengthen the waiver process to make it more accountable and effective and it should not be included. “It is essential that this surface transportation reauthorization bill improve our nation’s infrastructure and create jobs for our workforce,” stated Lipinski and Murphy to the conference committee members. “A strong Buy America component is crucial to this effort and we strongly encourage you to hold firm in strengthening our Buy America laws.”
11.13.2015	During the next three weeks, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting, a Veterans Fair, and two Senior Fairs in the Third Congressional District. At the Town Hall Meeting, area residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions about federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s office will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. During the Veterans Fair, Lipinski’s staff will be joined by the Illinois and U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs and other organizations to assist with a variety of issues, including military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA Hospital billing, placement in VA homes, and GI Bill information. The Senior Fairs will give district residents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. “I encourage residents from the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting, Veterans Fair, and Senior Fairs,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you. In addition, these events will be great opportunities for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my office provides. It is my privilege to serve you.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming events are as follows: Town Hall Meeting Thursday, December 3 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. Oak Lawn Public Library 9427 Raymond Ave., Oak Lawn Congressional staff will be available starting at 6:00 p.m. for assistance with federal agencies. Veterans Fair Friday, November 20 10:00 a.m. – noon Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 9514 S. 52nd Ave., Oak Lawn Senior Fairs Monday, November 23 10:00 a.m. – noon The Sabre Room 8900 W. 95th St., Hickory Hills Monday, November 30 10:00 a.m. – noon American Legion Post 735 6050 S. Harlem Ave., Summit Constituents with questions or concerns who are unable to make it to any of these events are encouraged to call or stop by one of Congressman Lipinski’s offices, located in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, and Orland Park. For more information, go online to lipinski.house.gov, or call 773-948-6223.
11.06.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement after the Administration released the full text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement: “TPP is the largest trade deal in history, covering 40 percent of global trade. After viewing the text of the TPP that was made available to members of Congress earlier this year, I was skeptical. Now that the entire agreement has been released, it demands very close scrutiny. “The approval of ‘fast-track’ legislation in June greatly diminished the role of Congress in the trade process at the expense of increased executive power. Now I will only be able to represent the hard-working people and countless small businesses and manufacturing firms of my district with a single ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on TPP. “I would like to believe that TPP will lead to more exports and jobs for the American people, but history shows that big trade agreements – from NAFTA to the Korea Free Trade Agreement – have resulted in fewer American jobs, lower wages, and a bigger trade deficit. The Obama Administration promised that the Korea Free Trade Agreement would produce 70,000 new jobs and soaring exports. But since it was implemented in 2012, this agreement has resulted in the loss of 60,000 American jobs and a 25% increase in the manufactured goods trade deficit with South Korea. “One of my biggest concerns with the agreement is that the Administration said that it would not address the unfair practice of currency manipulation. Currency manipulation occurs when a country interferes in the world market to keep the value of its currency at an artificially low level against the U.S. dollar. This makes American products too expensive to sell in that country and makes their exports artificially cheap abroad. This is major driver of our enormous trade deficit and is practiced by a number of TPP countries. “The inclusion of countries with serious human-rights issues as parties to the pact is another significant concern. U.S. law does not allow countries that are placed in the lowest tier of human trafficking compliance to be included in trade agreements that are fast-tracked. On July 27th, the State Department suddenly raised Malaysia out of that lowest tier, even in the face of a humanitarian crisis in which mass graves have been discovered. The appearance, if not the fact, of turning a blind eye to a country’s human rights abuses in order to secure passage of a trade agreement greatly undermines our credibility on human rights, as well as the agreement itself. “For TPP to get my vote, it must benefit America’s middle class, raise wages, and safeguard the consumer and environmental protections that we rely upon. If, after close review, it turns out that TPP is just a new NAFTA or Korea Free Trade Agreement, I will work all-out to defeat it.”
11.06.2015	The House has approved the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act, the first long-term transportation bill since 2005. As the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) worked hard to improve and pass this bipartisan six year bill. Following its passage, he was selected to serve on the small conference committee that will reconcile differences between the House and Senate versions of this important legislation. “This bill is far from perfect, but it will provide some certainty in the long process of repairing and upgrading the crumbling infrastructure that we all rely upon,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “I was able to make changes in critical areas impacting transit and freight, and hope to continue to build on that with my colleagues in the Senate in the conference committee.” Rep. Lipinski helped create a freight program that will provide $4.46 billion over the next six years in the form of discretionary grants for grade separations and other much-needed projects. He successfully defended funding for public transportation and for alternative transportation infrastructure which had been threatened. He also amended language in the bill that would have limited the ability of transit agencies to use some federal funds for important rehabilitation projects, such as the CTA’s Red and Purple Line Modernization projects, resulting in potential delays for many cities. In addition, Lipinski increased Buy America requirements and successfully offered an amendment to increase the safety of tank cars used to transport crude oil. He also authored sections of the transportation research portion of the bill under jurisdiction of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. Included in this is language to speed the development and use of connected and autonomous vehicles which will improve safety, save fuel, move traffic more efficiently, and improve the quality of life for all drivers.
11.02.2015	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced the winners of the 2015 Senior Citizen of the Year Award during a special program in Hickory Hills. The winners were chosen based on their contributions to their communities in the Third Congressional District. “These individuals demonstrate on a daily basis the outstanding spirit and commitment that exists in all of our communities,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “I am honored to recognize these seniors who have selflessly donated their time and energy to causes and pursuits that teach us all the value of service.” The 2015 Senior Citizen of the Year Award winners are: Barbara Bracken, Chicago; Bonnie Brown, Tinley Park; Lucy Crocilla, Palos Park; Jean Gnap, Palos Heights; Edie Krupinski, Lockport; James Kruse, Palos Hills; Roberta Lesiak, Chicago; Ann Lihosit, Chicago; John Miester, Orland Township; Shirley McSweeney, Chicago; Jack Picciolo, Lockport; Phil Rittenhouse, Lockport; Mary Shilney, Chicago; Ronald Stapleton, Lemont; George Vescovi, Chicago; and Lou Zemke of Homer Glen. To be eligible for this award, a senior must be nominated by the leader of an organization or an official from their community. Out of this group, only a select few are chosen to receive this honor.
10.28.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after the House approved the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank Tuesday with bipartisan support: “On Tuesday, Congress was able to come together to pass legislation to revive the much-needed Export-Import Bank, which provides financing for foreign customers to purchase goods and services from U.S. companies. The bank supports manufacturing firms throughout the 3rd District of Illinois, creating jobs, supporting sales and exports, and keeping our economy growing. Since 1990, Ex-Im has returned to American taxpayers $7 billion more than it has received. I am hopeful that the Senate acts quickly on this bill and that the bipartisanship witnessed on this issue can be repeated on other critical issues that directly impact the hard-working people of my district and this nation.”
10.26.2015	After many years of hard work, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the final step has been taken to protect the Lucas-Berg Preserve in the Village of Worth from becoming a dumping site for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Last year, Lipinski inserted language into the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) which stopped the Army Corps from dumping dredged materials from the Cal-Sag Channel into the 78-acre property. That led to today’s announcement that the site has officially been transferred from the Army Corps to the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District. “This is a big victory for the community of Worth and the surrounding area,” said Rep. Lipinski. “For many years it has been a priority of mine to remove Lucas-Berg as the Army Corps’ designated site for dumping dredged materials from the Cal-Sag. It was a difficult road to get this done, but it is important for me to do all I can to work with local residents and protect communities in the Third District.” Moving forward, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District will determine what happens with the property.
10.21.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Mike Quigley (IL-5), and Dan Newhouse (WA-4) were joined by leaders of the passenger and freight rail industry today to urge Congress to act immediately to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing positive train control (PTC) safety technology and prevent a shutdown of the nation’s passenger and freight rail system. “I’m pleased that House and Senate negotiators came to an agreement yesterday on an extension of the PTC mandate that sets the bar high for safety and holds the railroads’ feet to the fire,” said Rep. Lipinski. “There is no way the railroads can meet the January 1 deadline, meaning America’s railroads would soon grind to a halt. This extension would provide an additional three years for railroads to install the technology and obtain bandwidth, but for any further extension – up to a maximum of two years - the railroads must meet benchmarks that demonstrate serious progress and investment. Congress must closely track the progress of the railroads to ensure that they are making sufficient investments in PTC so that they will complete installation as quickly as possible. Now that we have an agreement, we need Congress to pass this extension without delay, preferably next week when we pass a short-term extension of the Highway and Transit reauthorization bill.” “The consequences for inaction on positive train control are too great. The time Congress has to avert an economic disaster is too short,” said Rep. Quigley. “While the deadline for PTC implementation is the end of the year, preventing a major disruption of rail service requires Congress to act much sooner. Shutting down the nations’ rail network involves more than simply flipping a switch – it involves complex logistics and will take weeks to complete. Therefore, Congress cannot afford to wait until the last minute to act and should explore all legislative options to get the job done as soon as possible.” “The economic damage caused by a shutdown of our nation’s rail network would be as grave as it would be unnecessary,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Food prices would spike sharply as impacted farmers would be prevented from effectively transporting products to market. Farmers would face increased costs procuring necessary fertilizers and pesticides. PTC is a vital safety technology, and our nation’s rail networks require a clear timeline for reasonable implementation. Failure to extend this deadline within the next few weeks will have a devastating impact on all Americans who rely on our nation’s rail networks. I urge my colleagues in Congress to act on this commonsense measure to extend the deadline to implement PTC.” The rail industry leaders that joined the members today included Kirk Dillard, Chairman of the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA); Martin Oberman, Chairman of Metra; and Don Orseno, President and CEO of Metra.
10.08.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) proposal directing the National Science Foundation to award grants for innovative, informal science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education projects and programs has been signed into law. “This new law will help museums and science centers across the country introduce a variety of engaging STEM programs that will support and build upon what our young people are learning in school,” said Rep. Lipinski. “These programs will reach the more than 13 million students that visit museums each year, many of whom may be inspired to pursue science careers as a result.” Activities supported by the grants may encompass a single STEM discipline, multiple disciplines, or integrative initiatives. “I proposed this grant program because I know how much of an influence informal STEM education had on me when I was growing up,” stated Lipinski. “Visits to the Museum of Science and Industry, Brookfield Zoo, and other local favorites helped inspire me to pursue and achieve two engineering degrees.” “We are thankful to have a champion like Congressman Lipinski who recognizes the importance of informal STEM education,” said David Mosena, president and CEO of the Museum of Science and Industry. “The learning that happens outside the classroom, in places like museums, is critical and directly supports the learning that happens in school. This law ensures that the National Science Foundation will continue to fund science education in all environments.” As a former teacher, Congressman Lipinski has pushed for improvements in STEM education throughout his career. He serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee, and is the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Research and Technology. He is also co-chair of the Congressional STEM Ed Caucus. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, he wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation, and he was a member of the House-Senate Conference Committee that completed work on the America COMPETES Act, a response to a National Academies report warning that America must take action if it wants to maintain its place as the world’s scientific and technological leader.
10.06.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is currently accepting nomination request letters from young men and women in the Third Congressional District who want to enter one of the U.S. Service Academies in 2016. “One of my congressional duties that I cherish the most is helping young men and women pursue their goal of serving our nation by entering one of our military service academies,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is an honor and privilege to be able to nominate outstanding young leaders who want to serve others. I encourage those who are interested to begin a process that could truly change their lives and the future of our nation.” The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1st of the year they would enter the academy, be a United States citizen, have graduated from high school, be unmarried, have taken the ACT and/or SAT, and have met the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January of 2016, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is December 1, 2015. Please be advised that a congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance into the academy. Nomination requests should be submitted to Rep. Lipinski’s office at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL, 60638. The phone number is (773) 948-6223.
10.05.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) have introduced legislation to authorize appropriations for the University Transportation Centers (UTC) program for fiscal years 2016 through 2021. Since its implementation by Congress in 1987, over 16,000 students have conducted research within the UTC program to revitalize our infrastructure. Currently, 125 universities fall under UTC programming. The new research conducted by UTCs is crucial to developing future technologies in bridge construction, autonomous vehicles, and propulsion systems. This bill would authorize the UTC program at $72.5 million per year from FY2016-21, which is consistent with the level of the most recent surface transportation bill signed into law in 2012. “Many of our country’s transportation developments began as UTC projects, and by investing in funding, we guarantee that today’s research becomes tomorrow’s innovation,” said Reps. Lipinski and Curbelo in a statement.
10.02.2015	Today, on the fourth annual National Manufacturing Day, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is praising our nation’s manufacturers and their hard-working employees for the important role they play in our economy and in keeping good-paying jobs in our communities. Since last year's Manufacturing Day, Lipinski's bill requiring a quadrennial plan to promote American manufacturing became law. “Today is an opportunity to honor those who work in a sector of our economy that over the years has provided many high quality middle class jobs. That is why I was so proud to get my American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act signed into law,” said Rep. Lipinski. “While we've made some progress for American manufacturing, Congress voted this summer to give the president the authority to fast-track trade agreements. The last thing the middle class needs is another trade agreement like NAFTA or the Korea Free Trade Agreement that will destroy American jobs, lower wages, and put the consumer and environmental protections we rely on in doubt. I promise to continue to stand with American workers and American manufacturing.” As co-chair of the Congressional Buy American Caucus, Congressman Lipinski has introduced bipartisan legislation that will strengthen Buy America laws which impact federal purchases when it comes to transportation. He understands how critical it is that federal taxpayer dollars are spent at home, employing Americans whenever possible. The Buy America Act, which sets domestic content standards for indirect purchases by Department of Transportation grantees, ensures that tax dollars spent on aviation, highway, transit, and rail infrastructure will support U.S. manufacturing and mining jobs, instead of jobs overseas. Unfortunately, there are loopholes to get around current Buy America laws, meaning that funds can end up supporting foreign workers and not Americans. “We must strengthen Buy America laws and close the loopholes that allow our tax dollars to employ foreign workers rather than Americans,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Buying American is one of the fastest and most effective ways to create jobs and give the overall economy a boost. This legislation will help ensure that we are supporting American workers.” National Manufacturing Day is organized by several national manufacturing associations, as well as manufacturers themselves, to draw attention to the industry through hundreds of events nationwide. For more information on National Manufacturing Day, visit www.mfgday.com.
09.30.2015	Six members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation today announced that a Department of Transportation (DOT) Inspector General (IG) investigation concluded that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)’s contingency plans and security protocols were insufficient at Chicago air traffic control facilities at the time of a September 26, 2014 fire at the Aurora facility. The entire report can be found here. After reviewing the IG report, U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and U.S. Representatives Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Bill Foster (D-IL), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) said: “Last year’s incident at the air traffic control center in Aurora exposed vulnerabilities in a system that is extremely important to our state and our nation’s economic health and security. The fire caused over $5.3 million in damages, impacted thousands of flights across the region, and prevented the control center from controlling air traffic for more than two weeks. “Today’s report underscores that concerns about weaknesses in the air traffic control infrastructure and a lack of flexibility to respond to such a crisis are not unique to Chicago, but likely apply at facilities across the country. The FAA has a lot of work to do to implement the Inspector General’s recommendations. “We can’t expect these changes to happen overnight. They will take adequate, long-term investment. This week, Congress is approving another extension of the federal budget and of the FAA. We can’t continue to lurch from one extension to the next. We must come up with a plan before the end of the year to seriously address our nation’s infrastructure needs.” In September 2014, the group of Illinois members called for an IG investigation after the fire – the second in a year – caused the cancellation and delay of hundreds of flights in and out of Chicago’s O’Hare International and Midway International airports. Shortly after the letter was sent, several members were joined by FAA Administrator Michael Huerta on a visit to the damaged Aurora FAA facility. Huerta met with the members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation to provide an update on the recovery process and to tour the damaged area of the facility.
09.30.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Robert Dold (IL-10), Paul Cook (CA-8), Tom Emmer (MN-6), Steve Israel (NY-3), and Frank Pallone (NJ-6) are asking Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx for a meeting to discuss protecting U.S.airlines and their workers from unfair competition from government-subsidized Persian Gulf carriers. Earlier this year, this bipartisan group was joined by 256 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to the Department of Transportation urging timely consultations with the governments of Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to address the subsidized capacity that their state-owned airlines – Qatar Airways, Etihad Airways, and Emirates – are deploying to the United States, in direct violation of U.S. Open Skies policy. “As the public comment period is now officially closed, it is time for your agency to swiftly address these trade violations,” said the members in their most recent letter to Secretary Foxx. “We formally request a meeting with you to discuss the threats posed by the subsidized Gulf carriers to the U.S. airline industry and to U.S. workers' jobs.” Contrary to the goals of Open Skies policy, Qatar, Emirates, and Etihad airlines have received $42 billion in subsidies and unfair benefits from their governments, flouting the good faith inherent in these international treaties and undermining the principles of open competition. Through the docket submission process, additional evidence has surfaced that the Gulf carriers’ entry into the United States is causing significant harm to the U.S. aviation industry and the hundreds of thousands of workers it supports. Instead of stimulating demand, the subsidies and unfair benefits are allowing the Gulf carriers to take away passengers from domestic carriers, hurting service to cities across the country. “Failure to confront these actions will set a dangerous precedent for future trade agreements with other nations, and will lead to significant job losses and cuts in airline service in the United States,” stated the members in their letter to Secretary Foxx. “It is our hope that a meeting with you will allow for a better understanding of Congress’s concerns and the timely need for consultations with Qatar and the UAE, as provided for in the bilateral aviation agreements.”
09.28.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Burbank Fire Department has been awarded $52,000 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase 46 new protective coats and pants for firefighters. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders,” said Rep. Lipinski. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do the best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
09.22.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Lewis University in Romeoville a $1,440,000 grant for a program designed to address a fundamental challenge facing science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education today: the success and retention of talented math and science teachers in high-need secondary schools. The program, entitled “Using Reality-Based Learning Practicum and Mentoring Structures to Enhance STEM Teacher Preparation for High Need Schools,” will recruit undergraduate majors in biology, chemistry, math, and physics and prepare them to become 6-12th grade math or science teachers. The program will fund 36 scholarships over five years. Lewis University will collaborate with Joliet Junior College, the College of DuPage, Midewin National Tallgrass Prairie, Three Rivers Manufacturers Association, Valley View Public School District 365U, Joliet District 86, and Oak Lawn District 218. The NSF grant award will start on October 1st of this year. “This award will be a great help as Lewis advances its commitment to training students for careers in STEM fields,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As a former teacher and one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, I am strong believer that improving STEM education for everyone is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and our children receive an education that will allow them to succeed both now and in the future.” The program will equip candidates to provide high quality math and science instruction to at-risk student populations through rigorous coursework, extensive field experiences, and innovative approaches. Scholars will attend workshops and work with STEM and education faculty as they learn student-centered best practices for the math and science classroom. To further develop their expertise, they will participate in community outreach programs. By researching the impact of the program's emphasis on teacher mentoring and translating teaching theory into effective practice, Lewis' program is poised to contribute to advances in the preparation of math and science teachers, helping to address the shortage of highly qualified STEM teachers in high-need schools, and leading to stronger math and science outcomes among at-risk 6-12th grade students. In the House of Representatives, Congressman Lipinski serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and is co-chair of the Congressional STEM Ed Caucus. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, he wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation.
09.18.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has added an over $2.8 million grant to a previously announced $10 million grant for sound insulation in homes around Midway Airport. The grant will provide funding for phase two of a three phase project, which includes insulation for a total of 917 eligible residences, improving the quality of life for over two thousand people that live near the airport. “Midway Airport plays an important role in both the regional and local economy, but – having grown up less than a mile from Midway – I know that issues such as airplane noise can be extremely frustrating,” Rep. Lipinski said. “In response to a number of Midway-related noise complaints, additional sound monitors have been placed in communities around the airport. I will continue to strive to make the airport better for everyone.” Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee.
09.17.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Peter King (NY-2) are calling on Congress to increase and permanently extend a tax benefit that helps commuters who use public transit to get to and from work. This benefit helps more people use public transportation, eases congestion on the roads, supports the economy, and increases quality of life. In a letter to House Ways and Means Committee Leadership – that was joined by 52 other House members – they ask that the increased transit tax benefit be included in the tax extenders package the House is expected to consider before the end of the year. In the past, commuters riding trains, buses, subways, and other forms of public transit were entitled to $245 in monthly tax-free benefits to defray the costs of their commute, an amount equal to the parking benefit offered to commuters who chose to drive to work. However, Congressional inaction on the transit benefit led to it being reduced by nearly half, to $130 in 2014. As a result, many commuters who previously utilized this benefit have either switched to driving, paid for fares that exceed the lower monthly benefit out of their pocket, or paid taxes on employer provided fare benefits that were previously excluded from taxable income. Last year, this benefit was increased retroactively, but this provided little practical benefit to the vast majority of commuters. “With 2.7 million commuters using the transit benefit to get from home to work, Congress should take action to ensure that riders of public transportation are provided with the same benefits as other commuters,” stated Reps. Lipinski and King in their letter to Ways and Means Committee Leadership. “Moreover, Congress should ensure that the benefit is restored in order to continue efforts to encourage public transportation ridership, which helps get cars off the road, reduce emissions, and eliminate lost time and delays. As Congress seeks to improve our economy and create jobs, helping people get to work must be a priority.”
09.16.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded Midway Airport a $4.6 million grant to improve safety at the airport. The grant will pay for the rehabilitation of over a mile of runway to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and the installation of a runway guard light. “Midway Airport serves a vital role in national air travel and our regional economy,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This investment will help to ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Earlier this month, he announced that the FAA has awarded Midway a $3.2 million grant for the resurfacing of taxiways and work on a lighting system to better handle low visibility situations.
09.16.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Robert Dold (IL-10) have been joined by a bipartisan group of Illinois members of Congress in asking House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leaders to include provisions improving the movement of freight in a comprehensive surface transportation bill now being developed. They are looking for the federal government to provide the leadership and resources necessary to ensure a strong national freight network, while also focusing on policies that will help alleviate congestion on the roads. “The American economy relies on the efficient movement of freight,” said Reps. Lipinski, Dold, and the bipartisan group of Illinois lawmakers in a letter. “Businesses rely on complex supply chains to receive inputs and ship outputs to customers; all while minimizing transportation and warehousing costs. As consumers, nearly everything we buy – from food to clothing to electronics and durable goods – arrives via the freight system.” The United States is home to a vast freight transportation network – over 4 million route-miles of public roads, almost 140,000 miles of rail, and some 11,000 miles of navigable channels. While many communities are impacted by freight operations, metropolitan areas like Chicagoland play a critical role in managing goods movement. In fact, six of the seven major railroad lines, a quarter of all United States rail traffic, and nearly half of intermodal rail traffic – the big steel boxes that are carried on ships, trains, and trucks – passes through the Chicago region. “Hubs and gateways in locations such as Chicago are vital for export and import activity and the national movement of freight, but experience highly localized impacts such as congestion, pollution, and community disruption,” said the members in the letter. “With the largest concentrations of people and highly complex transportation systems, these metropolitan areas are closest to the daily impacts and understand the issues that arise from goods movement. As such, it is critical that the next transportation bill prioritize these key freight regions in any new freight program.” The letter requests that any freight program included in the transportation bill include: · Dedicated Funding to the Freight Program A freight program should be funded with contract authority at a level of at least $2 billion/year. · Multi-modal or Mode-neutral Funding Eligibility A freight program should allow states, local communities, and regional planning organizations to fund projects that help move goods and people in the most efficient and safe way, regardless of whether they are road, rail, or port projects. It is critical that a rail-intensive region such as Chicago receives adequate funding so that community issues such as railroad crossings can be addressed to ease congestion and help local communities. · Metropolitan Area Focus Metropolitan areas play a critical role in managing goods movement. These regions are key transportation hubs where bottlenecks can impact the entire country. Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) know their local regions best and should be given a key role in planning and programming. · Formula Funding and Metropolitan Regions If a freight program includes a formula component, the metrics used to distribute those funds should recognize the outsized role major metropolitan areas play in our national freight system. Places like Chicago, where we transfer shipments between modes, have the physical capacity to handle large freight volumes, extensive warehousing and logistics centers, and the appropriate skilled workforce to coordinate and manage goods movement. · Competitive Grant Funding Program A freight program should include a competitive grant program that is also funded with contract authority and include wide-eligibility for projects of all modes, not just highways. The selection process for this program should place an emphasis on complex megaprojects that have significant national and regional economic and quality of life benefits, such as the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency Program (CREATE).
09.15.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and cyclists from around the area joined officials from Amtrak and the Active Transportation Alliance Monday night at Union Station in Chicago to cut the ribbon on Amtrak’s newly-equipped car for roll-on bike service. A member of the Railroad Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a life-long cyclist, Lipinski has been advocating for Amtrak to better accommodate cyclists on its trains. He has worked for Amtrak to develop roll-on bike service and build better connections to bike racks and bike sharing programs so that it can accommodate those who want to transport their bike for recreation, work, or both. “Cycling is not only a personal passion for me, but it is something that simply makes sense to expand transportation options for Americans,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is good for the health of our nation, the environment, the development of our communities, and is one of the keys to addressing the ongoing challenges that come with urban congestion. I’m pleased to see Amtrak working to incorporate and accommodate bikes. This effort is a great step towards growing ridership for Amtrak and helping cyclists tour the country and get to work.” Congressman Lipinski was able to secure language in the Amtrak bill last Congress that directed the development of better bike connectivity, and this Congress he was able to add an amendment that requires Amtrak to consider non-motorized transportation, such as bicycles, in its study to improve boarding procedures at its stations. That bill passed the House earlier this year and the Senate has since passed its own bill that includes Lipinski’s amendment and report language. “I’m hopeful that the House and Senate will be able to compromise between these two bills and pass something into law soon,” said Lipinski. “Amtrak needs to be able to plan its investments and I know everyone who bikes is eager for improved access. I look forward to seeing more of Amtrak’s lines adopt roll-on service and other cyclist-friendly procedures in the near future.”
09.11.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded The Learning Partnership from Western Springs a nearly $600 thousand grant towards an ongoing science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education program with Chicago Public Schools (CPS). The Learning Partnership is a small business that focuses on bringing together STEM researchers, teachers, and students to improve the quality of STEM education. They are involved in a variety of curriculum development and professional development projects. Their new NSF award is a continuation of a partnership with CPS, Loyola, DePaul, and UIC to help CPS reach the point of having all of their high schools offer computer science. This particular grant will examine the extent to which the introductory course that CPS is deploying will increase the likelihood that students will pursue further computer science coursework in high school. “As a former teacher, one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, and co-chair of the House STEM Ed Caucus, I continue to be a strong advocate for improving STEM education at all levels,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I believe it is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and our young people receive an education that will allow them to succeed in the jobs of today and tomorrow. I applaud The Learning Partnership for their work in this field and for being yet another small business success story in the Third Congressional District.” On the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Congressman Lipinski is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, Lipinski wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation (NSF). He was also a member of the House-Senate Conference Committee that completed work on the America COMPETES Act, a response to a National Academies report warning that America must take action if it wants to maintain its place as the world’s scientific and technological leader.
09.10.2015	This afternoon, Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) Future Transportation Research and Innovation for Prosperity (TRIP) Act, which supports innovative technologies that have the potential to fundamentally alter mobility in America and beyond, was approved by the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “Through transportation R&D we can develop and implement technology that will transform personal mobility and freight movement, allowing us to move people and goods more quickly and more safely,” said Rep. Lipinski. “We are living in an exciting time where technology has already begun to increase the efficiency and safety of our transportation systems, and there is great potential for so much more. For that to happen, though, we must make sure that we invest in research today that will unleash that potential and create a better future. And the federal government must do more to make sure this new technology is implemented and improves our economy and the quality of life for Americans. That is what this bill helps to do.” Lipinski’s Future TRIP Act would: · Establish priorities for research and deployment of technologies for connected and autonomous vehicles that promise to make commutes safer and more efficient · Support research to test ground-based, satellite, and unmanned aerial systems’ (UAS) ability to help solve multimodal transportation challenges and improve safety · Direct the Office of Science and Technology Policy to lead a comprehensive cross-agency coordination effort on transportation research · Improve transportation research at universities by removing burdensome restrictions on grant applicants and increasing the focus on multimodal research which universities are uniquely positioned to conduct · Bolster technology transfer and innovation in transportation by removing restrictions on researcher travel and recognizing outstanding innovators · Direct the Department of Transportation (DOT) to identify gaps in current data collection, improve freight data, and provide important ethical safeguards for data collection, storage, and dissemination · Invest in pavement research to reduce costs, increase performance, and increase the use of recycled materials · Instruct DOT to create a strategic research plan to improve efficiency and safety of freight transportation, and focus resources on top priorities · Provide considerations to improve future Strategic Research, Development, and Technology plans based on critiques from the National Academies, including communicating the value of the research and identifying potential and ongoing intermodal and interagency collaborations Congressman Lipinski is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, as well as the Ranking Member on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. The bill is endorsed by many organizations, including the Intelligent Transportation Society of America (ITS America), Transportation for America, the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI), the Coalition for America's Gateways and Trade Corridors, the National Asphalt Pavement Association (NAPA), the American Concrete Pavement Association (ACPA), the League of American Bicyclists, and AAA. The Future TRIP Act now moves on for consideration as part of the larger surface transportation reauthorization that the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure will consider next week to modernize our highway and transit systems.
09.04.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today regarding the disapproval vote on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) nuclear agreement with Iran: “The Iran nuclear agreement should be judged based on what is best for the security of the United States – now and in the future – and what is more likely to produce peace rather than more conflict. We need to be striving for lasting peace and security, especially after America’s debacle in Iraq that is still reverberating today. “I have taken time to study the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) agreement with Iran and seek as much information as possible before coming to a decision about my vote on the disapproval legislation. It has not been an easy decision. I do not want war with Iran. But this is not a stark choice between approving the agreement or going to war. “After careful consideration, I believe that we would have a better chance for peace by rejecting this deal, keeping our sanctions on Iran, and working to improve this agreement. The JCPOA gives Iran too much, and requires them to give up too little. Over the short and long terms it is likely to make the United States and the world less secure and produce more conflict. “The Middle East is engulfed in numerous wars and Iran continues to be one of the worst provocateurs in the region. Hamas, Hezbollah, Assad’s regime in Syria, the Houthis in Yemen, and Shiite militias in Iraq are all current beneficiaries of Iran’s support – and they all have been or continue to be threats to the U.S. or its allies. And this is being done while Iran is under harsh economic sanctions that limit its access to revenue. “At the core of my opposition to the JCPOA is its failure to meet many of the Administration’s stated negotiating goals plus the surprise addition of relief from sanctions on Iran’s access to conventional military weapons and ballistic missile technology. “First and foremost, the negotiations that the United States and the other P5+1 countries have been engaged in were intended to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. However, at best, the JCPOA will enable Iran to be a legitimate nuclear threshold state after 15 years, and could allow them to take steps to further build their nuclear capability after 10 years. If Iran gets away with violating the agreement, this time frame will be shortened even more. The agreement only forestalls Iran’s access to nuclear weapons, and by practically guaranteeing and legitimizing this access at a future date, the JCPOA will likely provoke a rush by other countries in the region to gain their own nuclear weapons. Notably, Saudi Arabia has suggested that if Iran is permitted to pursue a nuclear program, then it will very likely consider pursuing one as well, while other nations in the region have also been reported to be in this position. A nuclear arms race in a region that is already unstable will create an enormously dangerous situation and lead to even greater proliferation challenges. “The Administration said that Iran would have to come clean about their past nuclear weapons program and its possible military dimensions before any agreement could be signed because knowledge about the past is critical to understanding the capabilities of Iran to hide a nuclear program in the future. But there is no direct provision in the JCPOA requiring Iran to provide this information. Instead, we are told that there is a ‘side agreement’ between Iran and the IAEA and that the Administration has not seen this agreement, much less members of Congress. There are reports that this agreement allows Iran to provide its own samples to the IAEA from military research sites. This potentially leaves the world in the dark about past secret military nuclear weapons research and makes it more difficult to uncover violations of this agreement by Iran. “The JCPOA’s inspections protocols are also troubling because they give Iran up to 24 days to delay IAEA inspection requests at suspected nuclear sites. This is a far cry from the ‘anytime, anywhere’ pledges the U.S. negotiating team had assured would be the outcome. Iran will game these inspections, if not immediately then over time, seeking to delay and deter efforts to verify their compliance. They are likely to use small infractions of the inspections to test the unity and resolve of the P5+1 countries and expand from there. As European nations – as well as Russia and China – reinvest in Iran, their interest in reapplying sanctions would be increasingly improbable. “More so, the sanctions snapback process is structured in a way that gives away much of the leverage that it has given to the U.S. and other nations against Iran. First, the snapback mechanism is oriented to an all or nothing approach, requiring the United Nations Security Council to choose between the full resumption of sanctions and no response. Again, for initially small infractions it may be difficult to demonstrate that resumption of all sanctions would be an appropriate penalty; this will begin the process of breaking the potential for the snapback of sanctions. Further, individual countries will have discretion about whether to reapply their own sanctions, and may see economic or other reasons to not stand with the U.S. should Iranian infractions get worse. And even if sanctions were snapped back, the agreement exempts any investment that had been made in Iran up to that point, lessening the effect of the snapback process (and perhaps encouraging a rush to invest in Iran as soon as possible). “The JCPOA also contains surprising and deeply concerning sanctions relief to Iran on its acquisition of conventional weapons and ballistic missile technology, in 5 and 8 years respectively. Iran has a history of belligerence in the region, and enabling their access to new weaponry and the pursuit of ballistic missiles will only further the potential for conflict in the future. That they can access such weapons and missile technology prior to the end of the JCPOA may well lead to an Iran that not only has the means to make a nuclear weapon, but also the means of defending itself from attack. And for the United States, enabling Iran’s access to ballistic missiles means that they may be able to deliver a nuclear strike against our nation. This is a very frightening situation made possible in the not-too-distant future by this agreement. “I also have significant concerns about the short-term effects of the JCPOA. Iran will receive $100 to $150 billion in frozen assets in the next few months should the agreement proceed. Of that, they will have at least $50 billion to spend immediately. In addition, Iran’s ability to export oil and other products will begin to bring in even more money to the country. Based on Iran’s spending priorities while under economic sanctions, much of this new revenue will undoubtedly be steered to further support terrorism and militias at war in the region. The provision of additional weapons and money will only mean more war and more bloodshed. This is bad in and of itself, but it will also mean an expansion of our points of dispute and discord with Iran, and by and large increase the likelihood of conflict between Iran and our allies. “Many people ask what the next step would be if Congress rejects the JCPOA. Even if other members of the P5+1 drop their sanctions, I still believe that the U.S. maintains a sufficiently strong hand to bring Iran back to the negotiating table to improve the agreement. The sanctions that the United States can impose unilaterally, including restrictions on Iran’s access to the global financial system, could be maintained and would inflict continued pressure on Iran. Iran would be too close to alleviating the economic pain it has felt to simply walk away. Once Iran returned to the bargaining table, the shortcomings of the agreement that I laid out must be addressed before it would be allowed to proceed. “I supported the effort of the P5+1 countries to negotiate an agreement with Iran that would have prevented it from becoming a nuclear weapons threshold state, but this agreement falls far short of the stated goals and does more to increase the likelihood of additional conflict than to bring peace. Therefore I will be voting to disapprove the JCPOA.”
09.01.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded Midway Airport a $3.2 million grant to improve safety at the airport. The grant will pay for the resurfacing of taxiways to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement and work on a lighting system to better handle low visibility situations. “The number of passengers flying in and out of Midway Airport is at a record high and that number is expected to grow as the airport continues to add service to more destinations,” said Rep. Lipinski. “That is why I am proud to announce this federal grant which will help maintain and improve the infrastructure of a facility that is a major economic engine for both the surrounding area and the region. I will continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway and the neighborhoods and communities that surround it.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Recently, Lipinski announced that the FAA has awarded another $10 million grant for sound insulation in homes around Midway Airport. Since coming into office, he has helped secure tens of millions of dollars for projects to improve the airport and the community.
08.26.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the La Grange Fire Department has been awarded $122,972 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase fire equipment, including 22 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBAs) devices, 22 spare bottles, and 3 additional face pieces. The new SCBAs will replace the existing (1997 standard) units that were purchased in 2001. Those packs are badly aged and worn from 14 years of heavy use. “Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will allow the La Grange Fire Department to purchase much needed new equipment. In doing so, they will be able to continue to build upon their already impressive record of service while improving the safety and quality of life of area residents. I know a number of the firefighters in La Grange and I know their dedication to keeping the people in the village safe.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
08.06.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded another $10 million grant for sound insulation in homes around Midway Airport. Midway will also receive an additional $210,000 to purchase new equipment. “While Midway has certainly provided economic benefits to surrounding communities and the entire region, I know firsthand that issues such as airplane noise are a downside,” said Rep. Lipinski. “That is why I am happy to help bring more federal funding for soundproofing area homes. I will continue to strive to make Midway better for the people that live and work around it, as well as the millions of passengers that it serves annually. My office is always open to input regarding matters involving the airport.” Congressman Lipinski met this week with the new Chicago Department of Aviation Commissioner Ginger Evans and Managing Deputy Commissioner of Chicago Midway International Airport Erin O'Donnell. In response to a number of Midway noise complaints, additional sound monitors have been placed in communities around the airport. In September of last year, a separate $10 million grant was announced for noise mitigation measures around Midway Airport. That grant provided sound insulation for 364 homes, helping almost one thousand people. Rep. Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee.
08.05.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing the expansion of the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program that teaches scientists how to turn their discoveries into job-producing businesses. I-Corps will be expanded through new partnerships that will give more people access to entrepreneurial training, which will help them move their research from the lab to the marketplace. Unleashing the entrepreneurial potential of these scientists will lead to economic growth, job creation, and a greater return on taxpayers’ investment in scientific research. As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Rep. Lipinski was an early supporter of the I-Corps program and was responsible for including language in NSF authorization bills that specifically authorized the activities of I-Corps. He has also used his leadership position to encourage program participation and passed a bill expanding I-Corps to the National Institutes of Health. “I’m excited to see what will come from the increased commitment to this innovative program,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I’ve been pushing more agencies to adopt the I-Corps model for years, and I’m glad to see that more government organizations see the value in this modestly priced program that will help increase economic growth and put more people to work. I look forward to the day when more scientists will have access to the knowledge that comes from I-Corps.” I-Corps teaches the “Lean LaunchPad” method, developed by serial entrepreneur Steve Blank, for starting a business. This method focuses on talking to as many potential customers as possible, pivoting quickly in response to the resulting insights, building low-cost prototypes to get customer feedback, and constantly adapting. “I-Corps wouldn’t exist without Congressman Dan Lipinski,” Blank said. “It was his vision and commitment that made I-Corps happen. Although it has only been in existence for a short time and limited in use, we have seen truly amazing results from the program.” According to the NSF, more than 500 teams and 1,600 people have completed I-Corps training, so far resulting in 261 startups that have raised more than $49 million in funding from outside sources. In addition to the expansion of existing relationships with the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, and National Institutes of Health, new I-Corps partnerships will be formed with a diverse group of government organizations, including the Department of Defense, National Security Agency, Department of Agriculture, Department of Homeland Security, and Small Business Association.
07.28.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is continuing his efforts to keep transportation safe from cyber attacks as Fiat Chrysler recalls about 1.4 million cars and trucks that were shown to be vulnerable to hackers taking control. Seven months before the Fiat Chrysler security problem was exposed, Lipinski called on the Government Accountability Office to identify the current and foreseeable cyber vulnerabilities of vehicles, especially those impacting safety, privacy, and homeland security. He also pushed for more information regarding research and development efforts the Department of Transportation is undertaking to address and communicate these cyber risks. “As the ‘internet of things’ grows, more and more cars, trucks, and other modes of transportation have critical systems connected to the internet, which makes them vulnerable to hacking,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This is creating the potential for real danger, as we saw when hackers took over control of a Jeep. For example, safety-critical functions, including brakes, are electronically controlled and personal information, such as location, are electronically communicated. These vulnerabilities pose great risks and the federal government must do more to help protect Americans from these risks.” Late last year, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, originally introduced by Congressmen Lipinski, was signed into law. The Act increases the security of federal networks and information systems, improves the transfer of cybersecurity technologies to the marketplace, trains a cybersecurity workforce, and coordinates and prioritizes federal cybersecurity research and development efforts.
07.24.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the North Palos Fire Protection District (NPFPD) has been awarded $363,637 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to help purchase a new pumper engine truck. The NPFPD serves Palos Hills, Worth, Hickory Hills, and the Cook County Forest Preserve area. “All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job,” Rep. Lipinski said. “They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do their best possible job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
07.24.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is urging the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) not to cancel the Bubbly Creek restoration project at the South Fork of the South Chicago River because it is an important community and environmental project. In a letter, he asks the USACE to work proactively to ensure that this critical project proceeds in an expeditious and environmentally sound manner. The creek received its name from the gases bubbling out of the riverbed from the decomposition of animals and other materials dumped into the river in the early 20th century by the local meatpacking businesses surrounding the Union Stock Yards directly south of the creek's endpoint. It received more attention after it was vividly described in Upton Sinclair’s “The Jungle,” an eye-opening novel on the American meat packing industry. “The Bubbly Creek restoration project has been ongoing for ten years and its completion would provide significant economic and environmental benefits in a historically polluted area that is undergoing a period of economic and ecologic revitalization,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Bubbly Creek is currently unable to support healthy plant and animal communities, as well as full use by the adjoining community. The restoration project would remedy these issues by restoring the habitat to provide a home for migratory waterfowl and wetland fish, including two threatened species.” Congressman Lipinski worked with colleagues from both sides of the aisle to secure over $900,000 in the Fiscal Year 2008 and 2009 Energy & Water Appropriations bills to move this effort forward. He is concerned by the recent decision by the USACE to halt this project after the discovery of contaminated sediment from the adjacent former manufactured gas facilities. He believes that this is a short-sighted and unnecessary decision, and encourages the USACE to reconsider it. “There are numerous legal avenues that could be used to mitigate liability and there is the possibility of working in tandem with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to ensure that the adjacent sites are cleaned-up while continuing work on the Bubbly Creek restoration,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Many stakeholders have expressed a willingness to cooperate with the USACE, and such assistance should not be ignored, especially for a project as important as this.” This project is a priority for area residents and Lipinski urges the USACE to work with the EPA and other entities to find the necessary solutions to solve this temporary problem. There has been considerable progress in the last decade and he is eager to work with the USACE to keep the project on track.
07.23.2015	844 Passengers & Crew Lost their Lives in Horrible Maritime Tragedy The Chicago Fire Department and other off-duty emergency personnel immediately responded to the scene to coordinate the rescue efforts. Photo courtesy of Eastland Disaster History Society. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today introduced a resolution, H. Res. 375, commemorating the 100th anniversary of the tragic sinking of the Eastland, in which 844 passengers and crew lost their lives when the vessel capsized in the Chicago River. The resolution also notes the heroic efforts of civilians, the US Coast Guard, and Chicago Police and Fire Departments, to save hundreds more from the disaster, which occurred only feet from shore. July 24th of this year marks the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the Eastland in the Chicago River. The Eastland was one of 5 vessels chartered to take Western Electric workers across Lake Michigan for an annual company picnic. Within 15 minutes of the gangplank being raised, theEastland listed 45 degrees and soon capsized. 844 passengers drowned – more passengers than either the Titanic or the Lusitania – but unfortunately, this disaster has been largely forgotten by the American people. Ted Wachholz, president of the Eastland Disaster Historical Society, has suggested that the reason the Eastland has been overshadowed by other wrecks is that “there wasn’t anyone rich or famous onboard… they were all hardworking, salt-of-the-earth immigrant families.” “One hundred years ago, thousands of employees of Western Electric were preparing for a rare day off of work, taking a boat ride across Lake Michigan to enjoy an annual picnic. Tragically, for 844 passengers and crew on the Eastland, their vessel listed and tipped over, and they soon drowned in the Chicago River. Many were immigrants from Central and Eastern Europe, living in Berwyn, Cicero, and the surrounding Chicagoland area, and their loss left an enduring mark on these communities – 22 families were completely wiped out, and 19 families were left without parents. I will always remember my grandmother talking about the tragedy and the mark it left on her. We should honor and remember these working class families, and never forget their legacy,” said Rep. Lipinski The resolution is also cosponsored by Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Randy Hultgren, Luis Gutierrez, Robin Kelly, Tammy Duckworth, Bill Foster, John Shimkus, Adam Kinzinger, Danny Davis, Mike Quigley, Cheri Bustos and Rodney Davis. "The Eastland Disaster claimed the lives of 844 people, making it Chicago's greatest loss-of-life tragedy. It devastated thousands more. The victims and the thousands impacted were 1st- and 2nd-generation immigrants. These hard-working, ordinary people defined Chicago in 1915, just as the current ethnically diverse population defines Chicago today. It is important that we preserve the legacies of the thousands of ordinary people whose lives were affected by the Eastland Disaster, and also connect people today to these legacies and the history of the tragedy. We are grateful that Congressman Dan Lipinski is offering a resolution in Congress to honor the victims, survivors, and those who responded to the Eastland Disaster,” said Ted Wachholz, Executive Director and Chief Historian of the Eastland Disaster Historical Society. “To this day, the Eastland shipwreck caused the greatest loss of life of any disaster in Illinois history. While we must keep in our memories those lost 100 hundred years ago, we should also recall the brave individuals who put themselves in harm’s way to save others from the watery grave and recover those who passed. And we must always remain vigilant towards maritime safety, to assure no tragedy like this ever occurs again,” Lipinski concluded.
07.22.2015	Americans deserve to have their natural resources developed responsibly Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced H.R. 3140, the Accounting for Methane in Production through Loophole Elimination on Oil and Gas Royalties Act. The bill helps ensure that natural resources on federal lands are developed responsibly and that Americans are fairly compensated for the extraction. It does this by eliminating exemptions that exist in current law, requiring oil and gas companies to pay royalties on all the gas removed from federal lands during production. This bill has been endorsed by two prominent national environmental groups, the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC). “Resources on federal lands are being developed inefficiently, costing U.S. taxpayers millions of dollars in lost royalties each year, especially with respect to vented, flared, and leaked natural gas,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The Government Accountability Office estimates that approximately 40 percent of this natural gas could be economically captured from federal onshore leases, and this would increase royalty payments by about $23 million per year and reduce greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to up to 16.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide, the same as removing 3.1 million cars from the road. Requiring royalty payments on this gas will lead to more efficient use of natural resources, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and relief for American taxpayers.” Oil and gas production releases methane into the air. Methane is 84 times more potent of a greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, and new studies from the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) show methane emissions from production sites are higher than previously thought. In addition, there are also more immediate negative health impacts. According to a University of Maryland study, emissions of natural gas from production sites can negatively impact air quality hundreds of miles away. “Available control technologies exist to economically capture a considerable amount of natural gas that is being lost, resulting in taxpayers being delivered the royalties they deserve,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Estimates by Taxpayers for Common Sense put the loss to taxpayers at $380 million from 2006 through 2013 from onshore leases, corresponding to 665.7 billion cubic feet of gas, roughly equivalent to the average amount of gas consumed by all households in the state of New York in a year. Additionally, University of Texas at Austin researchers have reported that techniques to reduce emissions from well completions are effective at capturing 99% of the methane that was previously vented to the atmosphere.” “Rep. Lipinski should be commended for introducing this commonsense bill, which eliminates the needless waste of millions in taxpayer dollars while fighting climate change,” said Elizabeth Thompson, President of EDFAction. “This bill is a win-win, and stops the irresponsible and unnecessary waste of a valuable American energy resource. We can balance federal budgets while creating a better future for our children by addressing climate change. “This bill is a commonsense step to reduce harmful methane emissions on public lands that threaten public health and cause climate change. It is an important effort that will reduce climate pollution, improve protections for communities living near federal lands, and ensure a fair return for the American taxpayer,” said Matthew McFeeley of Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) in NRDC's endorsement of the legislation. “We hope the administration will also require use of best practices to curb methane pollution on public lands and enact rules that apply to all oil and gas operations across the nation. These steps together can help tackle the problem industry-wide and provide a powerful follow-up to the President’s historic action on carbon pollution from power plants.” "For too long, Americans have had their resources squandered, while the fossil fuel companies run free," remarked Athan Manuel, Director of Sierra Club's Lands Protection Program. "Rep. Lipinski's bill puts the brakes to the oil and gas industry's free reign, and holds them accountable for the dirty fuels they continue to waste at the expense of the people's wallets and health."
07.14.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today on the nuclear agreement reached by the P5+1 and the Republic of Iran: “Today an agreement was announced with the intent of forestalling a nuclear armed Iran. This is a very critical goal and I will be closely examining the text of the proposed agreement. But nonetheless, I remain highly skeptical of Iran’s intent, and fear that there is little basis for us to trust their adherence to the agreement’s inspections, restrictions, and transparency. Furthermore, the significant resources that Iran would receive once sanctions are removed, upwards of $100-150 billion, gives me great concern that this cash infusion will embolden them in their support for terrorism, Syria’s regime, and threats against Israel. Iran’s contributions to war and unrest in the region cannot be overstated. “I am glad that Congress has a role in reviewing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. I will carefully review the agreement prior to votes on the matter. My vote will be based on what I believe will provide the best chance for peace and security for America, the region, and the world.”
07.10.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by colleagues from both sides of the aisle today in passing the 21st Century Cures Act. The bill would boost funding for biomedical research, and streamline and update the approval process for medical innovations, improving the quality of life for many Americans. “I cosponsored this legislation because it will help speed the development and delivery of life-saving cures,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It provides a critical infusion of resources for medical research, as I have long advocated for. It will also speed up the process by which medications and medical devices are approved in order to get new treatments to patients faster. While this bill is not perfect, I am glad the House could come together to get legislation passed that will improve the lives of so many people.” The bill now moves on to the Senate.
07.08.2015	Six years after beginning the fight in Congress for the return of American heroes killed in the Battle of Tarawa, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was informed last week of the likely discovery of the bodies of 37 Marines who perished in the critical World War II battle. The Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) was notified by the non-governmental organization History Flight that they recently found what they believe are the remains of unaccounted-for Marines from the battle that occurred in November of 1943. DPAA is working with History Flight to receive the remains before the end of July and will expeditiously confirm the identities of those recovered. One of the Marines unaccounted-for from the battle is Medal of Honor recipient 1st Lt. Alexander Bonnyman, Jr. It is believed that he is among those whose bodies have been recovered. “I have always been dedicated to working with veterans and their families and pushing for more resources to locate and identify Americans that fell in service to our nation,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The least we can do for our citizens that paid the ultimate price for us is to give them a proper burial at home. That’s why in 2009 – at the request of decorated Vietnam Marine veteran Jim Balcer – I added an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill calling on the Defense Department to specifically work on recovering the remains of those killed at Tarawa. I have also helped private groups, including History Flight led by Mark Noah, cut through government bureaucracy several times, including getting visas for travel to Tarawa. Recently, I’ve been working to encourage the federal government to fully embrace and work with these outside groups. It is that growing relationship that directly led to the recent recovery at Tarawa.” Tarawa, located halfway between Australia and Hawaii, was the scene of one of the bloodiest battles of WWII. More than 1,100 American lives were lost in three days beginning on November 20, 1943, as the 2nd Marine Division and part of the Army's 27th Infantry took the island in an amphibious assault, dislodging an entrenched force of 5,000 Japanese soldiers. Lessons learned from Tarawa guided and influenced subsequent Allied landings in the Pacific, but the remains of over 550 Americans, including almost 40 from Illinois, were never recovered, as many bodies were buried where they fell and no detailed records were ever kept. “The importance of the Battle of Tarawa and the contributions of those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country cannot be overstated,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The courage they demonstrated on Tarawa will never be forgotten. No matter how long it takes, I will continue to support efforts to fulfill our promise to all of our military men and women to leave no one behind.” “We are very grateful for the efforts History Flight for the recovery of these Marines lost during the Battle of Tarawa,” said DPAA Director Mike Linnington. “We are working with History Flight and the Marine Corps to repatriate these remains to the United States after which DPAA's laboratory will work expeditiously to identify the identities of the recovered Marines. This is a tremendous example of how private-public partnerships can contribute to our accounting efforts both now and in the future.” Family members of individuals still unaccounted for from the battle of Tarawa are encouraged to contact History Flight at 1-888-743-3311, or go online to historyflight.com.
07.06.2015	Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Mike Quigley (IL-5), along with Illinois U.S. Senator Dick Durbin and officials from Metra, called for additional federal funding for positive train control (PTC) and other rail safety improvements today at LaSalle Street Station in Chicago. PTC uses GPS to track train movements and override human errors to prevent accidents like the one that occurred near Philadelphia on May 12 that killed eight people. Presently, most commuter and freight railroad companies, including Metra, say they will fail to meet a federally mandated deadline requiring full installation of PTC by the end of the year. Railroads that do not meet the deadline could face fines of up to $25,000 a day per track segment. A Federal Railroad Administration official told Congressman Lipinski during a recent Rail Subcommittee hearing that they might even shut down railroads that don't comply with the PTC mandate. “Representing a district with a vast number of passenger and freight rail lines, I have always made rail safety a top priority on the Railroad Subcommittee,” said Rep. Lipinski. “That is why back in 2008 I included language in a bill to create the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to help railroads install life-saving PTC more quickly. Unfortunately, Congress never fully-funded this program and commuter railroads like Metra have not been able to implement PTC. That is why I have joined with Rep. Quigley on a bill to reauthorize the grant program and to work together so that Metra can get federal help to install this critical safety technology.” “Implementing positive train control is vitally important to ensuring that our national rail system provides the utmost level of safety for the millions of passengers that use our passenger railroads each year,” said Congressman Quigley. “But the scary thing is that our nation’s commuter railroads are much farther behind on implementation than Amtrak. Congress has mandated this important rail safety technology, but has refused to fund it. With the deadline for implementation just months away, it’s time for Congress to help our commuter railroads employ positive train control and prevent the kind of tragedies we recently saw on Amtrak.” Earlier this year, Reps. Lipinski and Quigley introduced the Reassuring Adequate Investment in Lifesaving Systems (RAILS) Act, which reauthorizes the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to improve the safety of our nation’s railroads. In 2008, Congress established the PTC mandate for all railroads in the Rail Safety Improvement Act and Lipinski included language in that same bill to authorize the Rail Safety Technology Grant program through 2013 to assist railroads in meeting the mandate deadline. He and Congressman Quigley helped provide $60 million for the grant program in 2014, but Congress had failed to provide full funding over the years. In order to help railroads – especially commuter railroads – finish installing positive train control as soon as possible, the RAILS Act provides $200 million for each of the next five years for PTC safety technologies, rail integrity inspection systems, a system for electronic communication regarding hazardous material rail shipments, and other new rail safety items. Rep. Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, serving on three subcommittees: Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; Aviation; and Highways and Transit.
06.29.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced H.R. 2886, the Future Transportation Research and Innovation for Prosperity (TRIP) Act, to support innovative technologies that have the potential to fundamentally alter mobility in America and beyond. “Surface transportation used to be rather staid and unimaginative, but today the very concept of ‘mobility’ is being reinvented through research, innovation, and entrepreneurship,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Rapidly advancing automation, connectivity, and information technologies are creating incredible opportunities for transportation innovation. We need to develop innovative ways to improve safety, ease congestion, improve personal mobility, and cut energy use. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, as well as the Ranking Member on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I am working to ensure that we are developing these technologies effectively in the United States.” Lipinski’s Future TRIP Act would: · Establish priorities for research and deployment of technologies for connected and autonomous vehicles that promise to make commutes safer and more efficient · Improve transportation research at universities by removing burdensome restrictions on grant applicants and increasing the focus on multimodal research which universities are uniquely positioned to conduct · Direct the Office of Science and Technology Policy to lead a comprehensive cross-agency coordination effort on transportation research · Invest in pavement research to reduce costs, increase performance, and increase the use of recycled materials · Bolster technology transfer and innovation in transportation by removing restrictions on researcher travel and recognizing outstanding innovators · Direct the Department of Transportation (DOT) to identify gaps in current data collection, improve freight data, and provide important ethical safeguards for data collection, storage, and dissemination · Instruct DOT to create a strategic research plan to improve efficiency and safety of freight transportation, and focus resources on top priorities · Support research to test ground-based, satellite, and unmanned aerial systems’ (UAS) ability to help solve multimodal transportation challenges and improve safety · Establish an Intelligent Transportation Systems Center of Excellence to improve sharing of best practices, training, and technical assistance for this challenging interdisciplinary field. · Provide considerations to improve future Strategic Research, Development, and Technology plans based on critiques from the National Academies, including communicating the value of the research and identifying potential and ongoing intermodal and interagency collaborations “We cannot allow the U.S. to fall behind on advanced transportation technologies,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We must strive to be proactive, not reactive, in regard to transportation innovation. It is important for industry and government to work together to accelerate implementation and maximize the societal benefits of these technologies.” “The Intelligent Transportation Society of America’s (ITS America) members would like to thank Congressman Dan Lipinski for introducing the Future TRIP Act, which outlines a roadmap for critical research into the future of connected and automated vehicles, and other intelligent transportation systems that are redefining transportation,” said Regina Hopper, President and CEO of ITS America. “These technologies will have a transformative impact on our society by dramatically reducing vehicle crashes, improving mobility and access to transportation services for all Americans, decreasing traffic congestion and freight bottlenecks, and creating a more seamless, efficient, and cost-effective transportation network. The bill also recognizes the importance of protecting the 5.9 GHz band of spectrum that was set aside for Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communication, and ensures that efforts to free up additional airwaves do not jeopardize the future of this life-saving technology. The high-tech transportation revolution is already making our lives better, and ITS America’s members are eager to work with Rep. Lipinski and other members of Congress to support smart policy proposals like the Future TRIP Act and provide critical funding for intelligent transportation systems research, including connected and automated vehicles, so we can accelerate the availability of these game changing technologies.” “Representative Lipinski's Future TRIP Act will move us toward achieving one of T4America's core policy goals: nurturing and propagating the next generation of transportation innovations, and Transportation for America is pleased to support this bill,” said James Corless, Director of Transportation for America. “Whether through the coming wave of autonomous and connected vehicles, or smarter data collection to help us better measure the impact our dollars have, federal research dollars should be sparking the development of next generation infrastructure and practices. Every innovative company spends a portion of their budget on research and development, and a forward-looking federal transportation research program is a smart way to help us improve the efficiency of existing networks and reduce costs for pennies on the dollar.” “Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) applauds the efforts of Rep. Lipinski to establish a foundation for the widespread use of connected and intelligent vehicle technologies,” said Brian Wynne, President and CEO of AUVSI. “A new generation of intelligent machines, including automated vehicles, will improve the safety of our transportation system, provide mobility to the elderly and disabled, and reduce cost and waste. Through collaborative research efforts, demonstration programs, and the development of standards and procedures, the Future TRIP Act will help develop a culture of innovation and accelerate the adoption of these transformative technologies.” “Congressman Lipinski has been a steadfast freight advocate and his continued leadership is appreciated by the Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors,” said Elaine Nessle, Executive Director of the Coalition for America's Gateways and Trade Corridors. “We commend his efforts to develop legislation that encompasses both strategic freight planning and research, and also considers input from a broad spectrum of stakeholders. A well-functioning freight transportation system, based on sound research, is vital to our national economic prosperity. We look forward to continued work with the Congressman, knowing that like our Coalition, he understands the importance of addressing emerging and future research needs related to improving our multimodal goods movement system.” “We would like to thank Congressman Lipinski for introducing the Future TRIP Act,” said Ken McLeod, Legal and Policy Specialist for the League of American Bicyclists. “As new transportation technologies are being developed, it is incredibly important that we understand how they might affect all road users. With further research, we might be able to confidently know that these advanced safety and connectivity technologies will not just make driving better, but will make our communities better. Current research already suggests that bicyclists will benefit greatly from advanced technologies.” The bill is also endorsed by the National Asphalt Pavement Association (NAPA), the American Concrete Pavement Association (ACPA), and AAA.
06.26.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Lewis University in Romeoville a $201,123 grant for a project entitled "Implementing and Investigating Mathematical Modeling as a Means to Demonstrate the Interdisciplinary Nature of Science and Increase STEM Retention." With funding from the NSF’s Improving Undergraduate STEM Education (IUSE) Program, the project – under the direction of Dr. Cynthia Howard – will address the established and growing national need to increase the quantity and diversity of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) undergraduate majors as well as improve their preparation to enter the workforce. The NSF award starts July 1st. This is the second NSF award Lewis University has received this year for a STEM-related project. “Congratulations to Lewis University on this well-deserved award,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As a former teacher and one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, I have always been a strong advocate for improving STEM education at all levels. I believe it is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and our young people receive an education that will allow them to succeed in the jobs of tomorrow.” The project team at Lewis University will redesign Calculus for Life Sciences by: (i) adopting and adapting evidence-based best practices in the mathematical modeling of biological systems; (ii) developing students' computational skills with respect to real-life problems; and (iii) fostering interdisciplinary and cooperative student interactions and learning. Faculty from biology, computer science, and mathematics will collaborate to design this course, primarily for biology and computer science majors. In the House of Representatives, Congressman Lipinski serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy. Lipinski is co-chair of the Congressional STEM Ed Caucus.
06.25.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Robert Dold (IL-10), and Mike Quigley (IL-5) recently introduced bipartisan legislation that would end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes and surrounding tributaries by 2035. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act increases fines to up to $100,000 a day per violation and provides communities 20 years to upgrade their sewage treatment facilities. A similar bill was unveiled in the U.S. Senate by Illinois Senator Mark Kirk. “The Great Lakes are our region’s most precious natural resource and we must do more to protect them,” said Rep. Lipinski. “We cannot continue to allow the dumping of billions of gallons of raw sewage in the waters we use for drinking, swimming, boating, and fishing. The penalties will deter dumping and help pay for infrastructure improvements that will help alleviate future dumping.” “The Great Lakes are truly a shared national treasure, holding 95% of our country's surface fresh water and providing drinking water to over 30 million people,” said Rep. Dold. “As a scoutmaster, I teach Boy Scouts the principle of leaving areas better than when we found them. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act is a commonsense, bipartisan solution to fulfill this pledge with one of our country’s greatest natural resources.” “No one understands the role the Great Lakes play more than the 30 million people who depend on them for their drinking water, jobs, health and way of life,” Rep. Quigley said. “However, the continued dumping of billions of gallons of combined untreated sewage and storm water is threatening our way of life and will lead to permanent damage if we don’t put a stop to it soon. I’m proud to join Republicans and Democrats in introducing the Great Lakes Clean Water Bill, which will provide essential solutions to maintain our Great Lakes for generations to come.” “Thirty million Americans depend on the Great Lakes for drinking and swimming,” Senator Kirk said. “Our crown jewel of the Midwest is not a dumpster for sewage.” Money collected from fines would flow to a Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund to generate financial resources for the Great Lakes states to improve wastewater treatment systems. In addition, the legislation would make it easier to assess fines at existing levels beginning a year after the bill's passage. Cities around the Great Lakes Basin continue to dump directly into the Great Lakes and their tributaries. Reports estimate that 24 billion gallons of sewage are dumped into the Great Lakes each year, posing environmental, financial, and public health hazards. The bill is endorsed by the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the Healing Our Waters Coalition, and the Sierra Club.
06.19.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced a resolution in the House supporting the respectful and dignified disposal of worn and tattered American flags. “This past Sunday I flew the American flag on my house, as I hope many people did to honor our flag on Flag Day,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The American flag stands for freedom and democracy at home and abroad, providing a window into United States history and government, and accompanying our men and women in the armed forces who have made the ultimate sacrifice to their final resting place.” Lipinski’s resolution calls on members of Congress to promote public awareness of flag etiquette, including the correct disposal of worn American flags. The resolution urges House and Senate members to work with groups such as the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Boy Scouts of America to aid in the “respectful and dignified disposal of worn and tattered American flags in their districts and among their constituents.” According to the U.S. Code, “The flag, when it is in such a condition that is no longer a fitting emblem for display, should be retired in a dignified way, preferably by burning.” Congressman Lipinski’s offices in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, and Orland Park will accept worn American flags for proper disposal. “If you’re looking for a replacement, my office in Washington can help constituents obtain an American flag that's been flown over the U.S. Capitol,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Contact my office toll-free at 866-822-5701 to find out more information. I am happy to provide a flag free of charge if you are a veteran.”
06.18.2015	Today, the House of Representatives narrowly voted to give the president the authority to fast-track trade agreements through Congress. If the Senate approves the stand-alone Fast-Track bill, Congress will be limited to just an up-or-down vote on any administration-negotiated trade deals with no amendments allowed and only limited debate. Choosing to protect American workers, American manufacturers, and our environment, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted no again on Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), commonly referred to as the Fast-Track bill. “Today is a sad day for the American people, especially the quickly-eroding middle class,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The House – made up of men and women that have been elected by the American people to represent them – has voluntarily decided to give away their constitutional authority on trade, increasing the likelihood of yet another trade agreement like NAFTA and the Korea Free Trade Agreement that destroys American jobs, lowers wages, and puts the consumer and environmental protections we rely on in doubt. “The biggest problem with this bill is that it does not adequately deal with currency manipulation, which is the mechanism that many countries use to make American goods more expensive, thus killing even more American jobs. Right now, the President is negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) with 11 major countries that comprise 40% of the United States’ goods trade. In fact, we have been told that once TPA is law the TPP negotiations will be done in two weeks. What this really means is that TPP is complete, but it is being kept hidden from the American people. I have read the parts of the TPP they will let me see, and I know it’s a bad deal. If the Senate passes the stand-alone Fast-Track bill, I plan to use the only option I have left, my up-or-down vote, to stand with American workers and American manufacturing and oppose TPP.”
06.17.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today regarding the pending vote on TPA, known as Fast-Track: “It appears that another effort will be made as soon as tomorrow to pass the Fast-Track trade bill in the House. The bill is going to be brought up with little notice because the supporters know they have a better chance of passing it if the American people are kept in the dark. This is the same strategy that has been used all along. The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which will be facilitated by passing Fast-Track, is still being hidden from the American people. “I will continue to fight against the Fast-Track bill and urge my colleagues to do the same. Congress must not give up its power to stop another bad trade agreement like NAFTA or the recent Korea Free Trade Agreement from killing more high quality middle class American jobs and America’s manufacturing base. Fast-Track is the wrong track for America.”
06.16.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) delivered the following statement on the House floor today congratulating the 2015 Stanley Cup Champion Chicago Blackhawks: “Mr.Speaker, last night I wore my Tony Esposito number 35 Blackhawks jersey that is more than 40 years old and I watched what I could never have imagined in my childhood, the establishment a Chicago Blackhawks Stanley Cup dynasty. But thanks to the leadership of owner Rocky Wirtz and an amazing team put together by Stan Bowman and led by Coach Q, the Hawks won their third Stanley Cup in six years. The core of Toews, Keith, Kane, Hossa, Seabrook, Hjarmalsson, and Sharp have been there for all three. This year Duncan Keith brought home the Conn Smyth MVP trophy, but this was truly a team effort. Chicagoland thanks everyone in the organization for once again making us proud and bringing the Cup back to Chicago. I can't wait for the parade.” Rep. Lipinski’s statement can be viewed here.
06.12.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after the votes involving Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) – commonly known as Fast Track – took place today: “House Republican leadership pursued a two-step effort to pass fast track trade authority, and today that effort failed. While they were able to get part of the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) bill passed on a razor-thin vote, another portion failed miserably. Without another vote, the bill can’t go to the President and be signed into law. We will apparently be reconsidering the vote that failed early next week, with TPA supporters struggling to keep their bill alive. “I think today’s vote demonstrates that many of my colleagues share my sentiment that TPA is bad for the middle class and American manufacturing, and I’ll remain opposed to it when it comes back up for a vote next week.” Below is the speech Congressman Lipinski (IL-3) delivered on the House floor today in opposition to TPA: “I rise today in strong support of American workers, American manufacturing, and the environment, and in strong opposition to TPA. TPA is woefully inadequate when it comes to stopping currency manipulation, enforcing labor standards, and protecting American consumer and environmental protections. This is exactly the wrong time for Congress to be giving up its authority – which is our constituents’ ability to have a voice – on trade deals. “Don’t let anyone tell you that all business favors this. Lapham-Hickey Steel, Independence Tube, Taubensee Steel, and countless other manufacturers across my district oppose it. Ford Motor opposes it. They know past trade agreements sold as economic boons have hurt their businesses and they are gravely concerned about how the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), enabled by TPA, will hurt kill more American jobs. “We need fair trade, a level playing field, and American workers will win. But that is not what they’re being given. It is time for Congress to stand up for the middle class and American manufacturing and stop passing bad trade deals. Vote no on TPA.”
06.08.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined today with area first responders and rail industry leaders at a BNSF Railway facility in Chicago to demonstrate new electronic, smart-app safety technology – called AskRail –that will allow first responders who show up at the scene of a train accident to quickly find out what type of hazardous materials are being carried on each rail car. The critical need for this technology has been made more evident by recent rail accidents that have resulted in fires and the release of hazardous materials. “Northeastern Illinois is at the center of the nation’s freight transportation system and is the nation’s rail hub, so I am committed to making sure that America’s rails are as safe as possible,” said Rep. Lipinski. “But in the event of an accident, I want to make sure our first responders have the best possible capabilities to protect our communities. I have been pushing the federal government and the railroads to develop an electronic system so that no first responder ever again has to board a locomotive to find out what types of hazardous materials are being carried on a train that has been in an accident. I am happy the railroads have responded with the AskRail technology. This will greatly help our first responders and make our communities safer.” “AskRail gives first responders immediate and accurate information about railcars carrying hazardous materials and is an invaluable tool for helping prepare those on the front line should a rail incident occur,” said Association of American Railroads President and CEO, Edward R. Hamberger. “Coupled with emergency training and response planning, AskRail augments the flow of information and specifics between freight railroads and emergency first responders in communities along the nation’s 140,000-mile freight rail network.” Currently, paper manifests are the only form of documentation that must be carried by hazardous material transporters. The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) has been working to complete a pilot program – called the HM-ACCESS program – that will establish the viability of mandating electronic shipping papers in addition to the paper version. However, PHMSA’s pilot program has been continually delayed. Congressman Lipinski has a bill to create a national standard for electronic shipping papers and plans to continue to push PHMSA to complete the HM-ACCESS program, while also focusing on the expansion of the smart-app technology introduced today.
06.06.2015	Congressman Lipinski (IL-3) joined with area officials and residents today at Lake Katherine in Palos Heights for a special Ribbon Cutting Ceremony for the completed 11-mile west leg of the Cal-Sag Trail. This part of the trail runs along the Cal-Sag Channel from 131st and Cicero in Alsip to Archer and Route 83 in Lemont. In recognition of Lipinski’s support for the trail, he was given the honor – along with his wife Judy – of running the final leg of a relay carrying half of the trail sign to the trailhead at Lake Katherine. “In addition to being Illinois' most senior member on the U.S. House Transportation Committee, I am an avid cyclist and runner,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I'm very excited about the Cal-Sag Trail and all the transportation and recreation opportunities it creates. That is why I have always strongly supported the trail. The Cal-Sag Trail provides a critical missing link in our trail system that I look forward to enjoying. It's a great day for families all across south and southwest Cook County and all the way to Joliet.” The Cal-Sag Trail connects in Lemont to the Centennial Trail and I&M Canal Trail that runs from Willow Springs to Joliet and beyond. In Palos Heights, the Cal-Sag connects to the Tinley Creek Trail and then to the Orland Park Bikeway. The result is a trail connection covering most of the suburban Cook County and Will County portions of the Third Congressional District. “I can’t wait to bike all around my district on these trails,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I want to thank and congratulate all who were involved in getting this done, especially Steve Buchtel and Trails for Illinois.” When completed in 2017, the Cal-Sag Trail will be 26 miles long, connecting Burnham to Lemont.
06.01.2015	This afternoon, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) Secretary Randy Blankenhorn met with the Joliet Regional Port District Board and the Will County Governmental League (WCGL) to discuss support for improvements at Lewis University Airport in Romeoville as well as other transportation needs in the region. “Lewis University Airport plays an integral role in the region as an economic engine and also a great asset for the University’s top-rated aviation program,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I will continue to work with the Federal Aviation Administration and others to prioritize investment in its future. At the top of the list is a permanent control tower – perhaps a remote tower – which will significantly increase use of the airport and be an economic boon for the area. As the most senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a member of the Aviation Subcommittee, I was glad so many local leaders were able to get together to discuss both the airport and the need for comprehensive, long-term bills on a state and federal level to assist with transportation projects that are critical to the region. My thanks to the WCGL, the Joliet Regional Port District, Lewis University, and Romeoville Mayor Noak for their direction and insights leading up to and during today’s event. And special thanks to IDOT Secretary Blankenhorn for taking the time to listen and to work with us on these issues.” “The Lewis Airport is important to the overall economic health of the entire Will County area,” said John Noak, Mayor of Romeoville and a member of the WCGL and the Joliet Regional Port District Board. “We greatly appreciate Congressman Lipinski and Secretary Blankenhorn for their time and efforts focusing on the airport and other transportation-related projects that weigh heavily on the future of the region’s economy and the safety of its residents.” Earlier this spring, Congressman Lipinski announced that Lewis University Airport will be receiving a grant for $490,615 for a taxiway. This grant is part of a public-private collaboration that includes Lewis University, the airport, and the State of Illinois. This airport improvement is expected to promote job creation by attracting more businesses to the region and help the Lewis University Aviation program. Owned and operated by the Joliet Regional Port District, Lewis University Airport accommodates more than 100,000 arrivals and departures annually.
05.26.2015	Next Monday, June 1st, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Senior Fair from 10:00 a.m. – noon at Mt. Greenwood Park, located at 3724 W. 111th Street in Chicago. The fair will give seniors from the Third District an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. “I encourage residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Senior Fair,” said Rep. Lipinski. “If you are not able to make it to this event, you can always call or stop by any of my offices in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, or Orland Park.” For more information, check out lipinski.house.gov, or call 312-886-0481.
05.21.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (VA-10) will serve as co-chairs for the Public Transportation Caucus for the 114th Congress (2015-16). The Caucus will address issues facing the country’s public transportation systems, including rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, and traditional bus service. This bipartisan group will provide a forum for members of Congress to engage in constructive dialogue on the challenges and needs of mass transit agencies across the country as increasing demand and decreasing funding are putting unprecedented pressure on America’s public transportation systems. “Public transportation is vital to people from all walks of life in communities across northeastern Illinois and all across America,” said Rep. Lipinski, who sits on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “In the region, public transit provides nearly two million rides per day. Buses, trains, and light rail that run safely and reliably reduce congestion on our roads, improve travel times across all modes, cut down on air pollution, and make our communities more attractive places to live, work, and own businesses. Advancing transit is not just good for the region, it’s good for the whole country. Maintaining and improving our public transportation systems must be a part of the solution to creating jobs at home and ensuring our competitiveness in the global marketplace.” “We are all aware of the important role safe and efficient public transportation plays in the United States,” said Rep. Comstock. “Transportation is the lifeblood of our country’s economy and dollars spent on public transportation generate a significant economic return in the form of mobility, downstream investments, job creation, and increases in property value. Additionally, transit helps mitigate the high economic costs to people and industry associated with traffic congestion - a very big concern for my constituents in Virginia’s 10th Congressional District. This Caucus plans on implementing an inclusive, comprehensive approach because it is not just commuters and those in rural areas without cars who rely on transit, but also their employers who need a reliable and affordable transport option for their employees and yield maximum productivity for our country’s economy.” Public transportation faces many serious challenges. Significant funding is needed to maintain state-of-good repair, continue current service, and expand service options to meet growing demand. These needs will put significant pressure on these systems and must be thoughtfully addressed. The Caucus will explore and coordinate sound policy approaches to these challenges.
05.20.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and David Joyce (OH-14) are leading a bipartisan group of lawmakers in introducing legislation that will strengthen Buy America laws which impact federal purchases when it comes to transportation. As co-chairs of the Congressional Buy American Caucus, Lipinski and Joyce understand how critical it is that federal taxpayer dollars are spent at home employing Americans whenever possible. This particular legislation is especially important now with numerous pieces of transportation legislation expected to be passed this Congress. The Buy America Act, which sets domestic content standards for the indirect purchases by Department of Transportation grantees, ensures that tax dollars spent on aviation, highway, transit, and rail infrastructure will support U.S. manufacturing and mining jobs, instead of jobs overseas. Unfortunately, there are loopholes to get around current Buy America laws, meaning that funds can end up supporting foreign workers and not Americans. “We must strengthen Buy America laws and close the loopholes that allow our tax dollars to employ foreign workers rather than Americans,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Buying American is one of the fastest and most effective ways to create jobs and give the overall economy a boost. This legislation will help ensure that we are supporting American workers, especially the hard-working middle class.” “If we are going to spend the tax dollars of our hard-working constituents, we should at least do everything we can to spend them on American made products and projects whenever possible,” Rep. Joyce said. “Closing these loopholes means the competitive advantage goes to American companies and will create American jobs, not foreign ones.” The Buy America Update Act will close loopholes and modernize portions of the Buy America statutes that pertain to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Amtrak, and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Specifically, this bill will make the following modifications: · FHWA:The Buy America Update Act would close the CMAQ loophole to ensure that rolling stock and vehicles purchased by grantees are manufactured to meet a 60% domestic content requirement. Presently, 60% is mandated for rolling stock purchased with FTA dollars, but no corresponding requirement pertains to FHWA requirements due to the fact that the CMAQ program was created after the FHWA Buy America statute was enacted. Additionally, it would direct the FHWA to examine whether it should be reevaluate its decision to exclude manufactured products other than those made from steel and iron from domestic content process. · FTA:In order to ensure that American materials are used in bus and rail procurements funded by FTA grants, the Buy America Update Act would direct FTA to develop new auditing guidelines and conduct a rulemaking to develop its auditing procedures in order to verify that American components are in fact being used. · Amtrak:The Buy America Update Act would ensure that Amtrak examines every possible supplier before seeking a Buy America Act waiver by requiring it to enter into an agreement with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to conduct supplier scouting processes. Numerous other transportation agencies currently use NIST’s Manufacturing Extension Partnership for supplier scouting, so this requirement would establish parity and help grow a supplier base for rail components. · FAA: While the Passenger Facility Charge (PFC) and the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) are the major sources of funding for airport projects across the country, Buy America requirements only pertain to AIP funded projects. In order to correct these differences, the Buy America Update Act would establish corresponding requirements for PFC-funded projects to ensure parity across federally-administered infrastructure projects. Finally, the Buy America Update Act would require the FAA to consult with NIST before seeking a Buy America Act waiver.
05.19.2015	In a bipartisan vote today, the House of Representatives passed a bill that will continue for two months the authorization of federally supported road construction and transit funding. Without an extension, federal funds would have been cut off from these transportation projects. While Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) prefers a robust, long-term bill that provides the level of funding our region and our nation need for road construction and transit, he voted for the 60 day extension today because he doesn’t want Americans laid off and projects stopped due to unnecessary politics and posturing. “In the past 6 years, there have been 12 temporary extensions of the surface transportation bill,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Meanwhile, the backlog has gotten bigger, the funding gap has grown, and the entire transportation network just gets more expensive to fix. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass a long-term bill that is a real solution, not another band-aid.” Earlier this year, Lipinski joined with Rep. Reid Ribble (WI-8) to lead nearly 300 of their House colleagues in signing a letter urging House leadership to pass a long-term transportation bill funded by a sustainable revenue source.
05.19.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was recognized today for his bipartisan leadership in the U.S. House in a new ranking of lawmakers. Lipinski was ranked 16th out of 422 members in a Bipartisan Index released by The Lugar Center, a policy organization headed by former Indiana Senator Richard Lugar and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy. The index ranks all Senators and Congressmen based on their sponsorship and co-sponsorship of legislation during the 2013-14 session of Congress. Members were scored based on how often bills they introduced were co-sponsored by members of the other party, and how often they joined bills sponsored from across the aisle. Only 36 Senators and 144 House members received positive bipartisan scores in the index. “My background is in engineering, and engineers solve problems,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I have always made it a priority to work with all sides on legislation that helps create jobs, improves the lives of middle-class Americans, and makes America an even stronger nation. My job is not just to complain and blame, but to propose and work for solutions to problems that my constituents and our country face. At this critical time, it is more important than ever to reach across the aisle and build consensus. I will continue working with my colleagues across the political spectrum for the American people.” “Excessive partisanship has created gridlock and hurt Congress’ image and its ability to govern,” said former Sen. Lugar, who served 36 years in Congress and was known for his bipartisan approach to lawmaking. “In the 113th Congress, Congressman Lipinski demonstrated his ability to reach across the aisle and seek agreements with the other party for the good of the country.” The Bipartisan Index released today compares the performance of current members to baseline scores derived from 20 years of historical data. The index scores only bills that have the force of law, not commemorative bills or non-binding resolutions. Senator Lugar said he hopes the index will shine a light on an important but little-noticed part of lawmakers’ duties — bill sponsorship — and encourage them to reach across the aisle when legislation is being introduced. It is far easier at that point to reach responsible compromises, rather than at the end of the legislative process when positions have hardened.
05.07.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL-2) were joined this morning at a Chicago manufacturing plant by a spokesperson from the office of Congressman Danny Davis (IL-7) and representatives from organized labor, environmental groups, and industry to denounce legislation that would grant the president Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) to “fast-track” trade deals through Congress. The TPA bill has passed committees in the House and Senate and could be voted on at any time in both chambers. The bill would let the president sign and enter into a trade deal before Congress approves its contents and then force Congress to vote within 90 days on a done deal with all amendments prohibited. “Whenever the U.S. negotiates a new foreign trade agreement the American people are promised greater job creation and increased exports, but time after time the result has been fewer jobs, lower wages, and a bigger trade deficit,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Since NAFTA was signed, Illinois alone has lost close to 300,000 manufacturing jobs. These were quality jobs with high wages and good benefits that supported hard-working middle class families. “Unfortunately, history keeps repeating itself. The Administration promised that the Korea Free Trade Agreement would produce 70,000 new jobs and soaring exports, but since it was implemented in 2012 we’ve seen a loss of 60,000 American jobs and a 25% increase in the manufactured goods trade deficit,” continued Lipinski. “Despite the failure of the Korea agreement, the Administration is using it as a template for a much larger agreement that is currently being negotiated, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The TPP covers 11 U.S. trading partners that account for 40% of our trade. The TPP is the first trade deal that would get fast-tracked. We have to stop this endless cycle of failure. It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that trade agreements create American jobs, raise wages, and safeguard the consumer and environmental protections on which Americans rely.” “I'm not opposed to trade, and I want to work with the President,” said Rep. Kelly. “But there's no fast track to a more prosperous future for our nation. We must engage in a deeper, broader and more inclusive dialogue about trade. Our collective destiny cannot be negotiated behind our backs. We must be assured that trade deals are not being negotiated in a way that ships jobs overseas and allows trade cheats to undercut U.S. manufacturers through currency manipulation. Fast Track is simply not appropriate for 21st Century agreements. The U.S. cannot afford another trade agreement that repeats the mistakes of the past.” “The United States needs economic growth,” said Bill Hickey, president of Lapham-Hickey Steel in Bedford Park. “We have to have trade agreements that stop the erosion of our manufacturing base. As we enter into bad trade agreements we hurt the ability to create jobs and slow economic growth. This has to stop!” “Trade law enforcement, currency manipulation, adequate trade adjustment assistance and worker rights all have suffered when Congress has merely rubber stamped other free trade deals with a yes or no vote,” said United Steelworkers President Leo W. Gerard. “American workers and manufacturers have had to pay a steep price.” “The U.S. has some of the strongest environmental and public health safeguards in the world,” said Natural Resources Defense Council Midwest Advocacy Director Tiffany Ingram. “We can’t afford to put them at risk through a trade agreement. What we have seen so far gives us grave concern that our chemical, food, and climate protections could be put at risk in the pending trade agreements. We can’t afford to give a blank check to fast track these trade agreements into law.” Also joining in opposition this morning were members of the Chicago Federation of Labor, the Laborers' District Council of the Chicago Region, the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), and the Illinois Fair Trade Commission.
05.07.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that Brook Finger from Lemont High School is the Third Congressional District’s winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Finger’s painting honoring the sacrifices of area firefighters will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year alongside the winning pieces from congressional districts from across the country. She will also receive two roundtrip tickets for the exhibition opening this summer in Washington, D.C. Rep. Lipinski presented Finger with a certificate at a ceremony attended by her family and teachers at Lemont High School today. Lipinski also gave school administrators an American flag that had been flown over the capitol building. “I congratulate Ms. Finger for submitting a powerful piece that honors our heroic first responders who bravely put their lives on the line every day, often for people they don’t even know,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Our local firefighters play a critical role in keeping our communities safe, and it is an honor to have them represented in Washington through Brook’s hard work. I would like to thank all the young men and women throughout the district that participated in this year’s competition. The artwork displays a great amount of talent in different media. With so many great, diverse pieces to choose from, it was difficult to pick a winner.” In addition to Finger’s winning piece, the five runners-up are: Laura Monsreal, of Reavis High School, who will have her artwork displayed in the Congressman’s D.C. office; Emma Hirt, of Lyons Township High School, who will have her piece displayed in the Congressman’s district office in Chicago; Victoria Rose Annarino, of Lemont High School, who will have her picture displayed in the Lockport district office; Tess Bowens, of Mother McAuley Liberal Arts High School, who will have her artwork displayed in the Orland Park district office; and Kelly Bast, of Brookfield, who will have her piece displayed in the Oak Lawn district office. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents.
05.04.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded Midway Airport a $2.5 million grant to enhance the safety and efficiency of the airfield. The grant will be used to reconfigure a taxiway to provide clarity to pilots at the runway intersection. “Midway is one of America's busiest airports and a major economic engine in the Third Congressional District,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This grant will help ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible. I will continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Since coming into office, he has helped secure tens of millions of dollars for safety improvements at Midway Airport.
05.01.2015	As a representative of a district at the center of America’s rail network and a member of the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee of the House Transportation Committee, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) welcomed the announcement of new regulations for rail tank cars carrying crude oil and ethanol. The new rules were unveiled today in a joint announcement by U.S. and Canadian regulators. The new rules, which will align with Canada’s standards, require thicker steel shells, gauge jackets, thermal protection, improved pressure relief valves, and additional head shielding for rail tank cars transporting oil, ethanol, and other flammables liquids. Other changes include reduced operating speeds in high threat urban areas and improved rail routing to reduce risks. Existing cars will have to be retrofitted with the same items and the retrofit/replacement schedule is on a risk based basis, focusing on the tank cars carrying the most volatile materials first. “I will continue to fight to make our rail communities as safe as possible,” said Rep. Lipinski. “These new standards are definitely a step in the right direction. After seeing a number of terrible oil train incidents over the past few years, it is imperative that the Department of Transportation be more proactive when it comes to the safety of the American people and the future of this vital industry. It is my hope that in the coming months and years more action will be taken on this critical issue, including additional support for my ongoing efforts to improve first responder training and technology on these rail cars.” Last month, Lipinski introduced the Reassuring Adequate Investment in Lifesaving Systems (RAILS) Act, which would reauthorize the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to improve the safety of our nation’s railroads. The bill would authorize $1 billion over the next five years for positive train control technology, rail integrity inspections, and e-manifest systems for hazardous material shipments, among other rail safety investments. Congressman Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, serving on three subcommittees: Aviation; Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and Highways and Transit.
04.30.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Bob Dold (R-IL) are leading a bipartisan group of 262 members of Congress in an effort to stop unfair government subsidies to state-owned airlines in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). These actions artificially boost these carriers at the expense of American airlines, leading to significant job losses in the United States. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, the representatives are urging formal consultations with the governments of Qatar and the UAE regarding the use of subsidies and other unfair practices to distort the market in favor of their state-owned airlines, contrary to the Open Skies policy. “We have learned that over the past decade the governments of Qatar and the UAE have granted over $40 billion in concealed subsidies and other unfair benefits to their state-owned carriers,” said Rep. Lipinski and his colleagues in a letter. “The subsidies, as defined by the World Trade Organization and U.S. trade law, have taken a wide variety of forms, such as direct cash injections, interest-free loans with no repayment obligations, shareholder advances, significant related party transactions not at arms-length, and subsidized infrastructure, as well as other unfair business practices, such as bans on unions. The evidence is drawn almost entirely from financial statements, most of which have not been released in this country.” Congressman Lipinski and his colleagues that signed the letter are pushing the Secretary of State’s Office and the Transportation Department to request consultations with Qatar and the UAE, as provided for in the bilateral aviation agreements with those respective countries, to ensure that the agreements address the flow of subsidized capacity by these airlines to the United States. “Our domestic aviation industry runs a trade surplus and is an economic engine that supplies our economy with well-paying and high skilled jobs that support the middle class,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Confronting massive subsidies and other competition-distorting practices by state-owned enterprises in other sectors of the economy has been a priority of our government. Foreign governments and their state-owned carriers that engage in practices that violate liberalization and free competition should not be exempt from that policy.”
04.29.2015	The American Traffic Safety Services Association (ATSSA) has awarded Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) its prestigious Roadway Safety Champion Award. Lipinski, who has been a strong voice for transportation safety in Congress, has worked to ensure that the Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP) remains a key component of the next surface transportation authorization. He understands the impact that the roadway safety industry has on significantly reducing fatalities. By advocating for a strong, fully-funded HSIP, Lipinski has not only shown leadership, but also has directly saved American lives and reduced serious injuries. ATSSA President & CEO Roger A. Wentz noted, “It's an honor to call Rep. Lipinski a roadway safety advocate, a transportation leader, and a friend. His work in Congress has directly contributed to the reduction of roadway fatalities and injuries in Illinois and across the country. For these accomplishments, the roadway safety industry cannot thank him enough. ATSSA looks forward to working with both the Congressman and the entire U.S. Congress to enact a safety-focused, long-term highway bill in the weeks ahead.” “It is an honor to receive this award from ATSSA,” stated Rep. Lipinski as he received the award. “As a leader locally and nationally on transportation issues, I understand the need to continually work to make our transportation network safer. Over the years, I have brought people together to solve problems, an unfortunate rarity in Washington today. When the safety of the American people is at stake, we need problem solvers, not endless debate and gridlock. That's why I'm grateful to ATSSA for its unwavering dedication to finding real solutions to make our roads safer for everyone.” ATSSA members work to reduce the number of roadway fatalities and injuries through the development of innovative products and services. ATSSA is the nation's leader in roadway safety issues, with heavy emphasis on work zone safety, pavement markings, guardrails, signage, traffic control devices, and reflective apparel.
04.22.2015	Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Vicky Hartzler (MO-4), Matt Salmon (AZ-5), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Keith Rothfus (PA-12), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) introduced a bill to reverse the effects of the Federal Aviation Authority’s (FAA) interim hiring procedures which have passed over the most qualified air traffic controller candidates and raised serious concerns about transparency. Reps. Lipinski and Hultgren introduced similar legislation, the SAFE TOWERS Act, last Congress. For decades, the FAA has relied on colleges and universities to prepare air traffic controllers through the Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI), ensuring candidates are well-trained for the position. Recently, the FAA changed its hiring practices with few details given about how the changes would be implemented and with little advance warning. The new procedures have resulted in students who have spent large amounts of time and money training to be air traffic controllers unjustly disqualified by the opaque Biographical Questionnaire (Bio Q). In addition, many have “aged out” after turning 31 during the application process, thus becoming ineligible for the job for which they were specifically trained. “Lewis University in Romeoville has one of the premier CTI programs in the nation,” said Rep. Lipinski. “For years its graduates, along with our military controllers, have gone on to proudly work for the FAA. Now, with these hastily implemented hiring procedures, the FAA is turning its back on the students and brave veterans that should be the backbone of our air traffic control system, in favor of a process that lacks transparency.” Among other provisions, the bill would: · Restore preferred status for CTI graduates with school recommendations and qualified veterans back into the hiring process. A qualified individual maintaining practical air traffic control experience obtained at FAA air traffic control facilities and civilian installations of the Department of Defense would also receive preferential consideration. · Eliminate the use of a Biographical Assessment that unduly disqualifies applicants, and require public disclosure of the assessment’s validation and criteria used before implementation. · Allow candidates who will have aged out from the interim hiring process, or were deemed unqualified by the Bio Q, the chance to reapply.
04.21.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced the Truth, Transparency, Accountability, and Fairness in Trade Act to protect American workers being harmed by foreign trade agreements. Lipinski’s bill requires the Executive Branch to review and report on the operation of existing trade agreements to determine whether American jobs and exports are being negatively impacted. If negative impact is found, any Member of Congress would have the right to submit a “termination bill,” which would have expedited consideration and allow for the cancellation of some or all of the trade agreement causing damage. After passage of a termination bill, any renegotiated agreement would be barred from being considered under Trade Promotion Authority (the fast-track process) and the United States Trade Representative (USTR) would be required to negotiate severable trade agreements moving forward so as to allow for the cancellation of specific provisions without necessarily cancelling entire agreements. “Whenever the U.S. negotiates a new foreign trade agreement, the American people are promised greater job creation and increased exports, but the reality usually winds up being the opposite,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Since NAFTA was signed, Illinois alone has lost close to 300,000 manufacturing jobs. These were quality jobs with high wages and good benefits that supported middle class families. The Truth, Transparency, Accountability, and Fairness in Trade Act gives Congress a new way to protect American workers from the broken promises of bad trade deals. The bill requires the compilation of evidence demonstrating the real impact of trade agreements, and when the impact is bad, Congress will have an efficient way to cancel some or all of the deal that created the harm. Then the agreement can be renegotiated in a way that is fair to American workers. “President Obama is currently negotiating two large trade agreements, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which encompasses 12 countries that comprise 40% of America’s trade. He has requested that Congress grant him Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) – also known as fast-track authority – so that Congress would only have an up-or-down vote on any agreement with no amendments allowed. I oppose TPA because it would be harmful to the American people – especially the middle class – if Congress gave up its authority when it comes to new free trade agreements, considering how damaging many of these deals have been to American workers over the past two decades.” The Department of Commerce recently released its raw annual trade data, showing further economic damage from trade agreements negotiated with currency manipulators under fast-track procedures. The overall trade deficit increased 6% to $505 billion and the goods trade deficit increased 5% to $736 million. U.S. exports to South Korea are lower than they were before the implementation of the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement and the trade deficit has increased 20% to $25 billion. “The President’s goal of doubling exports by the end of 2014 has not succeeded and he is continuing down the same path by pushing to fast-track the Trans-Pacific Partnership with the same basic framework as Korea and other failed agreements,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Going forward, we need to focus on negotiating agreements that raise standards and create jobs. But we also need to look at past trade agreements and fix those that are hurting American workers. The Truth, Transparency, Accountability, and Fairness in Trade Act will do that and help level the playing field, restoring the high-standard manufacturing climate that American employers and their workers have proven time and time again for generations that they thrive in.”
04.20.2015	In the next week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting in Countryside and a Senior Fair in Lemont. At the Town Hall Meeting, Third District residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions about federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s office will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. The Senior Fair will give seniors from the Third District an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. “I encourage residents of the Third District to come to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting and Senior Fair,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you. In addition, these events will be great opportunities for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my office provides. It is my privilege to serve you. “And always remember that if you are not able to make it to these events you can always call or stop by any of my offices in Chicago, Lockport, Oak Lawn, or Orland Park.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming events are as follows: Town Hall Meeting Thursday, April 23 7:00 – 8:30 p.m. Holiday Inn William Tell Banquets 6201 Joliet Road Countryside, IL 60525 Congressional staff will be available starting at 6:00 p.m. for assistance with federal agencies Senior Fair Monday, April 27 10:00 a.m. – noon Lemont Park District 16028 W. 127th Street Lemont, IL 60439 For more information, check out lipinski.house.gov, or call 312-886-0481.
04.17.2015	Official statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “I am saddened to learn of the death today of Francis Cardinal George. Not just Chicago Catholics but the world has lost a man who was a great leader in the Catholic Church and a man who cared deeply about everyone no matter their faith. He overcame many personal challenges, from polio at age 13 to the cancer that took his life, but he always persevered and kept giving. From his days as a teacher to his time as Archbishop of Chicago, he gave his all to spread God’s word and God’s love. His outreach went beyond the Catholic community. He convened inter-religious discussions and showed tremendous respect for other faith communities. And he was always extremely committed to social justice that reaches to all corners of our society. “On a personal level, the more that I had the opportunity to get to know Cardinal George the more I admired him. He was an intellectual powerhouse who had a special ability to communicate great truths in a simple manner. Every time I heard him speak I learned something that enriched my mind and my faith. But his intellect was not a distant intellect of a philosopher in an abstract world, but it was well-grounded in an understanding of the everyday life of people. And although it was sometimes misunderstood and got him in some trouble, I always admired his straightforwardness. I will never forget the time he spent with my wife Judy and me two years ago in Rome on the eve of the installation of Pope Francis. He was truly a remarkable man and a great shepherd. One week ago I had the opportunity to once again thank him for all he had done. I will continue to pray for his soul, for his family, and for all who were close to him.”
04.16.2015	Following today’s release of a bill to grant the president “Trade Promotion Authority” (TPA) – also known as fast-track – Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced that he strongly opposes the legislation because it would give away Congress’ constitutional authority on trade, increasing the likelihood of another trade agreement that destroys American jobs. The TPA bill would let the president sign and enter into a trade deal before Congress approves its contents and then force Congress to vote within 90 days on a done deal with all amendments forbidden. Voting, including in the Senate, would be by a simple majority. “Right now, the President is negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) with 11 major countries that comprise 40% of the United States’ goods trade,” said Rep. Lipinski. “We cannot afford another bad trade agreement that only benefits large corporations while destroying American jobs. By negotiating in secret and limiting Congress to a simple yes-or-no vote on an agreement, it makes it more likely that the American people get a bad deal. The Administration says that the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement is the basis for the TPP, and instead of the ‘more exports, more jobs’ we were promised with that agreement, our trade deficit with Korea has ballooned more than 80 percent.” The bill introduced today is very similar to previous TPA bills that led to trade agreements resulting in job losses, stagnant wages, and decreasing exports matched by surging imports. Instead of focusing on leveraging Congressional authority to ensure that the Administration develops the best possible agreement for one of the largest free trade agreements in history, this bill suppresses the elected voices of the people, allowing no amendments to be offered. Furthermore, the “exit ramp” provisions in today’s bill imposes too high of a threshold for any meaningful Congressional intervention in turning off fast-track procedures. “The biggest problem with this fast-track bill is that it does not deal with currency manipulation, which is the mechanism that many countries – most notably China – use to make American goods more expensive, thus killing American jobs,” said Congressman Lipinski. Not only could this agreement cost the nation more high quality middle class jobs, but it could potentially put the safety of Americans at risk as well. Initial reports on the TPP suggest that it could allow unregulated food products into the country from places such as Malaysia, where contaminants and banned toxic chemicals have been found in seafood. “It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that trade agreements create American jobs, raise our wages, and safeguard the consumer and environmental protections on which Americans rely,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We cannot continue on the course we are on. Congress must have a robust role in trade negotiations from start to finish and the TPA bill announced today does not meet that test.”
04.16.2015	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Jim Renacci (OH-16), Bill Pascrell (NJ-9), and Reid Ribble (WI-08) today led a bipartisan group of lawmakers in introducing the Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act. This legislation provides a long-term solution to ensure the Highway Trust Fund, which will run out of money in less than 50 days, is sustainable. Maintenance of our national highway system falls jointly on the states and the federal government, with about 80 percent of highway funding coming from the federally administered Highway Trust Fund. Currently, the trust fund allocates about $50 billion annually to the states for upkeep of the system. This annual allotment has two major problems: we are spending about $16 billion more annually than the trust fund is bringing in, and we are not spending enough to keep our infrastructure from crumbling. The funding situation for the Highway Trust Fund became dire last year when Congress was forced to act to temporarily infuse the fund with money from sources that have nothing to do with roads and bridges. This temporary infusion simply kicks the can down the road, only sustaining the fund until the end of May, when Congress will again have to act to ensure it remains solvent. If left unaddressed, the Highway Trust Fund is expected to run out of funding this summer, right during the heart of construction season. This uncertainty makes it difficult to plan for future projects and a shortfall in the fund has the potential to disrupt current projects. Our economy depends on an adequate infrastructure system – it is that simple. The Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act allows all transportation funding proposals to be considered, while simultaneously ensuring the trust fund remains solvent for no less than 10 years. In order to sustain the trust fund in the near-term, the legislation indexes the gas and diesel user fees to inflation - raising roughly $27.5 billion and providing funding for our infrastructure needs for 1.7 years. In order to help reach a truly long-term funding solution, this legislation would create a bipartisan, bicameral Transportation Commission no later than September 1, 2015. This group would be charged with determining a path forward for sustainable funding, and would be advised to consider all options. Unfortunately, because Congress rarely acts without an “action forcing event,” Congress will be required to enact the recommendations of the commission, or any other funding mechanism that achieves at least three years of funding for the Highway Trust Fund, by December 31, 2016. If Congress fails to achieve at least three years of funding by this time, the gas and diesel user fees will increase to a level that would sustain the trust fund for a three-year period. Congress will again have the opportunity to get serious about funding our infrastructure during that time. If Congress fails again to implement long-term funding solutions, then the gas and diesel user fees would increase to meet the next five-year Highway Trust Fund shortfall, guaranteeing ten years of funding. Lipinski, Renacci, Pascrell, and Ribble stated: “We refuse to pass on the liability of our deteriorating roads and bridges to our children and grandchildren. The longer we wait to fix our crumbling infrastructure, the more it will cost in the long-run. We need to act now to fix the broken system. The users of our roads, workers, and state and local governments need the certainty that adequate and timely transportation program reauthorizations and funding provide. The Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act allows for the consideration of all viable options so that Congress can get serious about finding a long-term, sustainable solution for the Highway Trust Fund. It is our sincere hope that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle will support this important legislation so that the burden of our failing infrastructure isn’t passed on to the next generation.” Janet F. Kavinoky, vice president of the Americans for Transportation Mobility Coalition and executive director of Transportation & Infrastructure at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,stated, “It is exciting to see the bold leadership of Congressmen Lipinski, Renacci, Pascrell, and Ribble. Last year when Congress was considering yet another extension, they made clear that it was time to solve the problem of long-term funding for the Highway Trust Fund and stop the short-term patches that are so damaging to the economy, to business, and to the transportation system. The Chamber applauds this bipartisan group of lawmakers for stepping up and offering a solution. It is time for Congress to pass a fully-funded, long-term bill to make our roads and transit systems faster, better and safer, and this proposal is a way to get there.” Robert Darbelnet, CEO of AAA, stated, “Since 2008 Congress has failed to address the long-term health of our transportation system and has instead settled for short-term patches that avoid the underlying funding issue and leave our roads and bridges to crumble. This bill ensures Congress won't be able to let itself off the hook again, and will finally be required to address the issue of paying for infrastructure in a pragmatic, immediate and sustainable fashion." Dave Osiecki, executive vice president of the American Trucking Association,stated, "Congress should avoid passing short-term extensions that are, today, putting people out of work and forcing states to cancel or delay critical projects necessary to save lives and address system maintenance and congestion needs. We are grateful for the leadership of Reps. Lipinski, Renacci, Pascrell, and Ribble on this very serious issue and hope all Members of Congress will follow their example by supporting a long-term fix to the crisis facing the Highway Trust Fund." Shane Skelton, executive director of the Alliance for Innovation and Infrastructure, stated, “This Bill begins an important dialogue, and certainly provides the funding needed to maintain our highways and transit systems in the immediate term, and provides some funding certainty to states and builders into the future. It also creates the foundation, and an incentive structure, for Congress and the Administration to work together to a find more sustainable long-term solution. Developing a solution for the short-term, while also keeping long-term goals in sight, exemplifies the type of leadership and action needed to take on this issue.” Thomas J. Gibson, president and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute, stated,“The steel industry commends Congressman Renacci and the bipartisan group of cosponsors for their commitment to shore up the Highway Trust Fund. Their creative approach will help Congress take steps towards identifying a long-term funding solution that will provide critical increased investment in our nation’s infrastructure. Questions about how to finance the Highway Trust Fund have been the big obstacle to ensuring a sustainable surface transportation bill. This legislation will help Members of Congress confront the funding issue directly and put pressure on them to figure out a solution once and for all.” Robert D. Stevens, Ph.D., P.E., F.ASCE, president of the American Society of Civil Engineers, stated, “The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) supports the effort of Representatives Lipinski, Renacci, Pascrell, Ribble, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers to address the federal Highway Trust Fund’s fiscal shortfalls that loom as far as the eye can see. Two key elements of the proposal, indexing the current federal motor fuels tax rate to inflation and utilizing highway user-fees to continue to pay for surface transportation, are common sense funding solutions. ASCE’s 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, which gave America’s infrastructure an overall grade of D+, underscores the need to fix the Highway Trust Fund. As stewards of the nation’s infrastructure we are grateful to the Representatives for their commitment to improving America’s transportation system.” Stephen E. Sandherr, CEO of the Associated General Contractors of America,stated, “This legislation shows that some in Congress are willing to take on challenging issues that are vital to our continued economic growth. The measure represents an important first step to resolving the funding challenges that have repeatedly threatened highway construction projects across the country for years now.” Michael Melaniphy, president & CEO of the American Public Transportation Association, stated, “APTA urges Congress to enact a bill that increases dedicated revenues for the Highway Trust Fund, and the Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act is an effective way to increase dedicated revenues for the Highway Trust Fund by immediately indexing federal motor fuel taxes and mandating increases that would support current program levels if Congress could not find an alternative source of dedicated revenues going into the Highway Trust Fund. APTA strongly supports efforts to increase the dedicated revenues that finance necessary investment in our transportation infrastructure and we commend Reps. Lipinski, Renacci, Pascrell, and Ribble for their leadership on this issue.” David A. Raymond, President and CEO of the American Council of Engineering Companies, stated, “ACEC strongly supports the Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act. We commend the bipartisan group of lawmakers for their leadership in finding a long-term funding solution to provide certainty for federal transportation programs.” Roger Wentz, president and CEO of the American Traffic Safety Services Association, stated, “The future of American infrastructure investment is in jeopardy. Without a funding solution for the Highway Trust Fund, road projects nationwide will come to a halt, as we are seeing in some states already. Additionally, life-saving roadway safety infrastructure projects are being put at risk by this lack of funding – projects that have proven year after to year to dramatically reduce fatalities. ATSSA commends Reps. Dan Lipinski, Jim Renacci, Bill Pascrell, and Reid Ribble on their leadership and commitment to finding a solution to sustain the Highway Trust Fund through the introduction of the Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act. The more Congress delays on enacting a long-term highway bill with a sustainable Highway Trust Fund, the more men’s, women’s and children’s lives will be in danger on America’s roadways. Our members know how to bring them home safely, if Congress would only provide the funding to do so.” The following organizations support the Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act: Chamber of Commerce American Trucking Association (ATA) Alliance for Innovation and Infrastructure (Aii) American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) American Public Transportation Association (APTA) American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA) Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM) American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) Associated General Contractors (AGC) AAA Highway Users Alliance AFL-CIO American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) National Asphalt Pavement Association (NAPA) American Traffic Safety Services Association Associated Equipment Distributors (AED) National Sand, Stone, and Gravel Association (NSSGA) Portland Cement International Union of Operating Engineers Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority Mayor Jackson – Cleveland, OH Mayor Byrne – City of Parma Heights, OH Mayor Bobst – Rocky River, OH Mayor Stefanik – North Royalton, OH The following members are cosponsors of the Bridge to Sustainable Infrastructure Act: Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-NJ) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA) Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL) Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA) Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Don Young (R-AK) Rep. Michael Capuano (D-MA) Rep. John Larson (D-CT) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. John Lewis (D-GA)
04.10.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-5), and Illinois U.S. Senator Dick Durbin joined with officials from the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT), Metra, Amtrak, the Environment Protection Agency, and the City of Chicago this morning to announce a $3 million grant for IDOT to develop a comprehensive plan to ease congestion and improve the efficiency of passenger rail service on the southwest and south sides of the city and suburbs. It will reduce congestion and delays, boost economic growth, and improve the overall quality of life for residents. The plan will also complement ongoing rehabilitation efforts at Chicago Union Station for Amtrak and Metra riders. “As Illinois’ most senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and chief proponent of the CREATE program, which is working to alleviate rail congestion in northeastern Illinois, I fought in 2013 alongside Congressman Quigley to get unspent federal funds reprogrammed for rail safety and improvement projects,” said Rep. Lipinski. “So I’m proud to announce that some of those funds are coming to our region to develop a plan to ease congestion on our rail lines that lead from the southwest and south into Union Station, benefitting passengers riding these Metra and Amtrak lines, businesses and shippers using these lines, and everyone on the Southwest and South sides of the city and suburbs impacted by rail. This is great news for the area, especially passengers riding the BNSF, Heritage Corridor, Southwest Service, and Rock Island Metra lines in my district. “The comprehensive plan made possible by this grant will bring in all the stakeholders to build on the benefits we’ve put in place already with the CREATE program,” continued Lipinski. “It will help northeastern Illinois better plan its investments, increase the quality of life of residents, and move people and goods on time while increasing the attractiveness of Chicago Union Station as an economic hub in the region.” Recently, Congressman Lipinski introduced legislation that reauthorizes the Rail Safety Technology Grant program as another step towards improving the safety of our nation’s railroads. The bill provides $200 million for each of the next five years for positive train control (PTC) safety technologies, rail integrity inspection systems, a system for electronic communication regarding hazardous material rail shipments, and other new rail safety items. These investments will benefit the safety of millions of Americans and ensure that Chicago, the backbone of the American freight network, has the funding it needs to comply with the positive train control requirement. Rep. Lipinski also recently worked with colleagues to pass the first Amtrak reauthorization bill in over six years, which will help ensure the safe movement of passengers across the country. It contains provisions that he advocated for, including allowing commuter and freight railroads to use Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing loans to pay for PTC, and it contains funding for grade crossing safety.
04.09.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Under Secretary for Science and Energy Lynn Orr, Argonne National Laboratory Director Peter Littlewood, and other members of the Illinois congressional delegation today to announce that Argonne is receiving $200 million to increase its supercomputing capacity. This investment will help advance U.S. leadership in scientific research, maintain the nation’s position at the forefront of next-generation computing, and ensure America’s economic and national security. Rep. Lipinski helped write the 2010 America COMPETES Act that increased investments in computing and other innovation programs. “Supercomputers like MIRA at Argonne have traditionally been a strength of the U.S. investment in research, but today that lead is being challenged by other countries,” said Rep. Lipinski. “While the U.S. is home to 233 of the world’s 500 fastest computers as measured by the most recent Top 500 report, that’s down from 291 systems just five years ago. This reward for Argonne is critical to our nation’s ongoing efforts to maintain our lead in this sector. I thank the DOE and Argonne Director Littlewood for their leadership and vision in keeping the United States at the forefront of this highly competitive field. As a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research, and a member of the Subcommittee on Energy, fighting for increased investments for high performance computing and other critical areas of science is going to continue to be at the top of my priority list.” Argonne is part of a joint collaboration of several facilities that was established in early 2014 to leverage supercomputing investments, streamline procurement processes, and reduce costs to develop supercomputers that will be five to seven times more powerful than today’s fastest American system.
04.09.2015	At Union Station in Chicago today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined representatives from the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA), the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA), Metra, Pace, Amtrak, and other members of the Illinois congressional delegation to push Congress to pass a long-term bill to fund local and national transportation needs, especially public transportation. The event is one of many “Stand Up 4 Transportation” activities taking place across the country today. “Simply put, we cannot continue to kick the can down the road on a highway and transit funding bill,” stated Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3). “As the most senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, and representing a district that is crisscrossed by every mode of private and public transit, I understand the need to pass a comprehensive long-term bill instead of searching under the federal couch cushions for money every few months to avoid a funding crisis. In the last six years, there have been eleven short-term extensions. As founding co-chair of the Congressional Public Transit Caucus, I know what a disaster this has been, especially for transit. We need a fix, not a band-aid.” Transit is important to all Chicago area residents. In the region, public transit provides nearly two million rides per day. Recently, Congressman Lipinski worked with Congressman Reid Ribble from Wisconsin to get a bipartisan group of almost 300 members of Congress to come together to call for House Leadership to pass a responsibly paid-for, multi-year highway and transit bill. “Transit in Chicago is about getting people to and from school, work, the doctor, the store, sporting events, church, and countless other daily activities in an affordable, safe, and timely manner,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Advancing transit is not just good for the region, it’s good for the whole country. It's time for everyone to roll up their sleeves and get to work on a robust bill that provides the level of funding we know our area and our nation need.” Nearly $34 billion is needed to replace, rehabilitate, and maintain bus and train service in the Chicagoland region. But federal spending on transportation infrastructure has been stagnant and often unpredictable for the past decade. “The only way to fix our transportation system is by passing a long-term, robust funding bill,” said Congressman Lipinski. “This will give certainty to transportation planners, especially transit agencies, so that they can make the investments that are needed to move people safely and efficiently every day.”
03.31.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that Lewis University Airport in Romeoville will be receiving a grant for $490,615 for a taxiway to the aviation center. This grant is part of a public-private collaboration that includes Lewis University, the airport, and the State of Illinois. This airport improvement is expected to promote job creation by attracting more businesses to the region and help the Lewis University Aviation program. “This grant will help Lewis University Airport improve its infrastructure, boosting economic development and aiding the top-notch Lewis University Aviation program,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I’m happy to have worked with officials at the airport, the university, and the state, along with Mayor Noak, to help make this happen. As the most senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, I’m going to continue to work to build up Lewis University Airport and the region’s economy.” “This necessary project will improve the flow of traffic from the runways to the hangars, including the part of the airport that serves the Lewis University Aviation program,” said Romeoville Mayor John Noak. “While the improvements will be extremely helpful during events in the region, such as the races at Chicagoland Speedway, it will also benefit the entire local economy, making the airport’s facilities more appealing to corporate traffic and enhancing the prestigious aviation program at Lewis University. I thank Congressman Lipinski, the State of Illinois, Lewis University, and the airport for all of their hard work.” Owned and operated by the Joliet Regional Port District, Lewis University Airport accommodates more than 100,000 arrivals and departures annually. Its convenient location near three major interstate highways in a fast-growing area has attracted numerous Fortune 500 and other corporate aircraft.
03.20.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) held his annual “All-American Boy and Girl” Award Ceremony for 7th and 8th grade students on Thursday at Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills. 103 finalists were selected from over one thousand applicants to appear before a panel of judges for a formal interview. Following the interviews, 14 winners were selected, four girls (tie for third place) and three boys from each grade. “We had an incredible group of young people from across the district to choose from this year,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The finalists have stood out among their peers, doing well in school, participating in extra-curricular activities, and contributing to their communities. I enjoy doing this program every year because it makes me more optimistic about the future. I want to congratulate all of our winners and their families as well as everyone who has had a hand in shaping the lives of these exemplary middle-schoolers. I wish them the best and encourage them to continue working hard and staying active in making their communities and our nation better.” The top three in each grade are: • Seventh grade girls: Melissa Wojcik, St. Rene Goupil Elementary School (1); Alexa Catezone, Pleasantdale Middle School (2); Natalie Tejeda, St. Rene Goupil Elementary School (3); Maeve Kozicki, Bridgeport Catholic Academy (3) • Seventh grade boys: William Bozue, St. Alphonsus/ St. Patrick School (1); Ryan Boots, A. Vito Martinez Middle School (2); Logan Radgowski, Trinity Lutheran School (3) • Eighth grade girls: Natalia Mendez, St. Alphonsus/St. Patrick (1); Taylor Healy, John H. Kinzie Elementary School (2); Farah Elhoumaidi, Worth Junior High School (3); Grace Pukala, John H. Kinzie Elementary School (3) • Eighth grade boys: Andrew Yock, St. George School (1); Bryan Croce, John J. Lukancic Middle School (2); Austin Monaco-Genschaw, Santa Lucia School (3) Each finalist was awarded a certificate for their hard work and superior essay. The 14 winners were awarded a special plaque and other prizes.
03.19.2015	Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Mike Quigley (IL-5) have introduced the Reassuring Adequate Investment in Lifesaving Systems (RAILS) Act, which reauthorizes the Rail Safety Technology Grant program to improve the safety of our nation’s railroads. Joined in support by Representatives Bobby Rush (IL-1), Danny Davis (IL-7), Luis Gutierrez (IL-4), Tammy Duckworth (IL-8), and Robin Kelly (IL-2), the bill provides $200 million for each of the next five years for positive train control safety technologies, rail integrity inspection systems, a system for electronic communication regarding hazardous material rail shipments, and other new rail safety items. “Representing a district that includes four commuter rail lines, Amtrak, and six of the country's seven Class I freight railroads, I understand how important rail safety is,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This bill dedicates funding and resources to benefit the safety of millions of Americans as a key part of the Chicagoland economy moves to modernize its safety systems to comply with the positive train control requirement.” “As the nation’s rail hub, nowhere are investments in safety technology more crucial than in Chicago. Yet, commuter railroads like Metra lack the funding necessary to ensure new safety technologies, like positive train control, are implemented the right way,” said Rep. Quigley. “Reauthorizing the Rail Safety Technology Grant program will provide the critical funding and support needed for commuter railroads around the country to modernize their infrastructure and keep their passengers safe.” Congressman Lipinski helped create the grant program in the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 to help freight railroads and rail commuter agencies install positive train control through the end of 2015. He and Congressman Quigley helped provide $60 million in the final year of this program. This new bill reauthorizes the program to help various entities get much-needed money to continue this safety improvement and it authorizes additional uses, like spectrum acquisition, which is needed for the technology, and interoperability testing, which helps trains use tracks owned by other companies. Rep. Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, serving on three subcommittees: Aviation; Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and Highways and Transit. Rep. Quigley is the sole Illinois member on the Appropriations Committee, where he serves on the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development subcommittee.
03.19.2015	Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Joe Heck (NV-03) have re-launched the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus. The caucus will serve as a bipartisan forum to educate members of Congress on commercial applications of unmanned systems, current industry trends, and regulatory issues associated with air, land, and sea-based autonomous systems. “Transportation technology is moving at a rapid pace, quickly advancing the use of autonomous and remote-controlled vehicles, commonly called ‘unmanned’ systems,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The movement of people and goods is being transformed and new commercial opportunities are being developed every day. Our caucus will keep members of Congress informed so that we can make good decisions about the promotion, regulation, and oversight of these systems in order to uphold public safety and safeguard privacy while these new technologies improve our lives and boost economic growth.” “Unmanned systems have the potential to help grow our economy, strengthen public safety, and improve quality of life,” Rep. Heck said. “My goal as co-chair is to work in a bipartisan way with caucus members to educate our colleagues about the wide array of uses for unmanned systems and the benefits of integrating those systems for commercial applications, and also to ensure that regulations do not stifle innovation in this emerging industry.” “We welcome Congress’ support for this growing industry that has enormous potential to positively impact our lives and the U.S. economy, and we look forward to working with the Unmanned Systems Caucus,” said Brian Wynne, President and CEO of the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI), the leading advocacy group for unmanned systems. “The technology has a wide range of applications to help industries do their work faster, safer, and more effectively. Unmanned systems will be used for everything from helping farmers care for their crops, to inspecting bridges and oil pipelines, to even providing virtual real estate tours. It’s impossible to envision all of the new uses and benefits, but unmanned systems potential is unlimited, and the coming years will certainly be an exciting time.” An AUVSI report found that this industry is expected to create more than 100,000 jobs nationwide and generate more than $82 billion in economic impact in the first decade following integration.
03.16.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is accepting submissions from all high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive two round-trip tickets to travel to Washington, D.C., in June for the exhibition opening. Runners-up will have their artwork prominently displayed in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year. All submissions must include the Student Information and Release Form, which can be found online at lipinski.house.gov. Submission Guidelines: · All artwork must be two-dimensional · Each piece can be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4” including the frame · If the winning piece is not framed, the artist will be required to frame the artwork within the sizing guidelines · Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. · Each entry must be completely original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws · Winning artwork will be on display in Washington for one year and will not be available to be returned to the winner during that period · Accepted media for artwork are as follows: o Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. o Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, ink, markers o Collage o Prints: lithographs, silk screen, block prints o Mixed Media: use of more than two media such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. o Computer-Generated Art o Photography All entries must be received at the Congressman’s District offices in Chicago (6245 S. Archer Ave.), Lockport (222 East 9th Street), Oak Lawn (5309 W. 95 Street), or Orland Park (14700 S. Ravinia Ave.) by April 17, 2015. If you have any questions, please contact the Congressman’s Chicago office at (312) 886-0481, or go online to lipinski.house.gov. The winning artist will be notified in early May, and the exhibition opening will be in June in Washington, D.C.
03.04.2015	With widespread bipartisan support, the House of Representatives passed the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, the first Amtrak bill since October of 2008. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, supported the legislation, which includes his amendment that improves the boarding procedures for wheelchair users, bicyclists, and other non-motorized vehicle users. “My amendment clarifies the responsibilities of the Amtrak Inspector General as it looks at Amtrak boarding procedures and provides a report on improvements,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Specifically, it would require that when assessing boarding procedures the Amtrak IG also considers the needs of passengers using non-motorized transportation, including all forms of wheelchairs and bicycles.” An Amtrak Inspector General report issued last August found that less than 10% percent of Amtrak stations were ADA compliant, and recent research by mobility groups found that only 38% of Amtrak lines allow roll-on bikes with only 18% of stations on those lines even allowing for that service. “Given that Amtrak has had issues complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act in terms of station infrastructure, it’s just common sense that we clarify that it needs to take a hard look at its boarding procedures to ensure that all customers are well-served and to the fullest extent of the law,” said Rep. Lipinski. “And as a bicyclist, I know that Amtrak can do more to increase ridership and revenue by making it easier to take bikes on trains.” Congressman Lipinski’s amendment received the full support of The United Spinal Association, National Disabilities Right Network, AARP, The League of American Bicyclists, Rails to Trails Conservancy, Easter Seals, People for Bikes, and other organizations. The Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015 also includes much needed reforms to Amtrak’s business model and the Railroad Rehabilitation & Improvement Financing (RRIF) loan program, which will unlock a potential financing source for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency (CREATE) program and help commuter rail agencies with infrastructure improvements, including the installation of positive train control. The RRIF program would now allow commuter rail agencies to pledge a revenue stream as collateral, which improves the interest rate and explicitly allows positive train control as an eligible project. The bill also contains provisions extending Buy America requirements to RRIF projects, which Congressman Lipinski has been working on for more than five years. It ensures that the $35 billion loan program is investing dollars in American materials and American jobs. “Overall, this bill shows us what Congress can do when we work together to build consensus and compromise to get things done to advance our nation’s infrastructure system,” stated Rep. Lipinski.
02.26.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced a resolution in support of National Engineers Week, which is being celebrated the last week of February. As a former educator and one of just a dozen trained engineers in Congress, Lipinski introduces this resolution every year in order to highlight the critical role that engineers play in building our nation and the need to encourage more young people to pursue a career in engineering. “Engineering is problem solving, and we need more engineers to help solve many of the problems that face our nation and the world,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I am a strong believer that improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education at all levels is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world, and our children receive an education that will allow them to succeed in the jobs of today and tomorrow.” National Engineers Week focuses on celebrating how engineers make a difference in our world, increasing public dialogue about the need for more engineers, and bringing engineering to life for children, educators, and parents. This year's theme is “Engineering New Horizons." In the House, Congressman Lipinski serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy. Rep. Lipinski is a leader in Congress in promoting commercialization of federally funded scientific research; boosting American manufacturing; strengthening cybersecurity; developing safer and more efficient transportation technologies; advancing alternative energy development; improving STEM education at all levels; and ensuring that America leads the way in next-generation technologies. At the local level, Lipinski has worked to promote the importance of STEM education and to encourage students – through programs such as Project Infinite Green – to consider careers in STEM fields. He has done this through classroom visits, meeting with Third District students visiting Washington, D.C., and publicizing local programs that aim to increase student performance and interest in science, technology, engineering, and math. For more information on National Engineers Week, visit discovere.org.
02.18.2015	Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Tim Murphy (R-PA) have announced the organization of the Congressional Caucus on Poland for the 114th Congress (2015-16). The Poland Caucus, as it is also known, is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress dedicated to maintaining and strengthening the United States-Poland relationship and to educating others on the political, economic, and security issues facing this region of the world. The caucus is pleased to have Congressman Tim Murphy join as a co-chair for the 114th Congress. During the upcoming session, the Poland Caucus intends to focus on several issues, including Poland's perspective on Russian aggression in the region and the U.S. role in responding to this security situation; energy development and security issues of mutual interest to Poland and the U.S.; exploration of expanded trade and economic ties between Poland and the U.S.; science, technology, and innovation collaboration between the two countries; and the expansion of the Visa Waiver Program to include Poland. Efforts to engage the large Polish communities that reside in the United States will also be at the forefront of the caucus’ agenda. The caucus expects that the consideration of these issues will take various forms, including briefings, meetings, and events involving members of the caucus and representatives from the Embassy of Poland as well as from Warsaw. In addition, the caucus will conduct other policy-driven efforts and social events. “Poland stands an exemplar of the notion of ‘shared values,’ from human rights to our most profound global security concerns,” said Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ). “The Poland Caucus will be an important vehicle in Congress for increasing awareness of the issues of mutual concern with this close ally.” “As a proud Polish-American that represents a congressional district that is home to more than 100,000 Polish-Americans, this caucus provides a bipartisan platform to champion causes near and dear to Polish-Americans,” said Rep. Lipinski (D-IL). “Poland has been a true friend of the United States. Over the next two years, I look forward to continuing to grow our relationship with this key partner and valuable ally that has demonstrated countless times a capacity and willingness to act for the common good beyond its own borders.” “Growing up in a family with an enduring and rich Polish-American heritage, I have seen for myself the close kinship shared by the American and the Polish people,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). “We hold a mutual and fervent commitment to liberty and self-determination. The people of Poland helped imbue our own Republic from its founding with a passionate love of liberty for all, including key precepts of our respective Constitutions. To me, the moment in 1999 when Poland was brought under NATO's umbrella remains one of modern history's glorious moments. Our nations also share a close economic relationship that upholds human dignity and supports the growth of business, arts and culture. My own district is home to thousands of Polish-Americans, a thriving community that has played an important role in the history and culture of our region. In a world where tragic conflicts arise due to naked aggression and covetous nations, there could be no more important work than to strengthen America’s relationship with our partner and friend Poland.” “I couldn’t be prouder to represent thousands of Polish Americans who have made enormous contributions to the vitality and prosperity of Southwestern Pennsylvania, and with my own family’s Polish roots, I am honored to serve as co-chair of the Poland Caucus,” said Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA). “I look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen the friendship and alliance between our two countries.” In prior years, the Poland Caucus has held briefings and otherwise been engaged in topics including missile defense, commemorating the anniversary of democracy and freedom coming to Poland, engaging the Poland government on security matters, and cultural events.
02.11.2015	Following extensive lobbying by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Ernest Moniz announced today the launch of the Office of Technology Transitions (OTT) to help create new products, new companies, and new jobs out of the DOE’s research. The office will work closely with America’s national laboratories, such as Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont, and engage with industry to promote the commercialization of technology and strengthen the global competitiveness of U.S. industries based on scientific and technological innovations. “Since I have been in Congress, I have been a strong proponent of finding new ways to promote American innovation,” said Rep. Lipinski. “To this end, the creation of the Office of Technology Transitions has been a top priority. The OTT represents a low-cost way to take laboratory discoveries made possible by government-funded research at national labs – such as the new battery technologies being developed at Argonne – and turn them into profit-making companies and high quality jobs that boost economic growth and American competitiveness.” Congressman Lipinski was instrumental in working with the DOE to implement this program, speaking with Secretary Moniz personally about it early on in the Secretary’s tenure and highlighting the need for the program in hearings before the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. The new office will be responsible for delivering a Technology Transfer Execution Plan to Congress and reporting annually on the Department’s technology transfer and partnership activities. The Department of Energy spends more than $10 billion on research and development each year, conducted primarily at universities and federal laboratories. This investment supports research that is creating the foundation for discovery and innovation, enabling the transition to a low-carbon economy, and is maintaining American nuclear security.
02.11.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Lewis University in Romeoville a $613,428 grant for a project entitled “Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Connections.” The project at Lewis University, under the direction of Dr. Jason Keleher and Dr. Joseph Kozminski, will contribute well-prepared graduates to the STEM workforce with advanced training in chemistry, biochemistry, physics, and chemical physics. It is designed to enhance physical sciences education through an experiential learning model based on real-world experiences. The students will be provided with a solid foundation for employment and graduate school in a competitive landscape. Specific emphasis will be placed on skills relevant to pressing issues such as alternative energy, novel materials for information storage, next generation health care materials, and advanced optical technology. The NSF award starts April 15th of this year. “This award is terrific news for Lewis University, its students, and the region, and it is well-deserved,” Rep. Lipinski said. “In 2012, I attended the dedication of the impressive new Science Center at Lewis and discussed the university’s strong commitment to STEM education. This award will be a great help as Lewis advances its commitment to training students for careers in STEM fields. Not only will the students benefit, but our region will benefit as new and expanding companies are established by and around a skilled STEM workforce.” During the project, Lewis University will leverage its relationships with nanotechnology companies, Argonne and Fermi National Laboratories, and the community to provide students with additional learning opportunities. It will also expand its research collaborations with the labs and both domestic and international companies working in these advanced fields. In the House of Representatives, Congressman Lipinski serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy. He has long supported investing in innovation and scientific research at universities, national labs, and other entities that support long-term economic growth and allow the United States to compete in the global marketplace and grow American jobs. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee, Lipinski wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation (NSF). As a former teacher and one of only a dozen engineers in Congress, Rep. Lipinski has pushed for improvements in STEM education throughout his career. He is a strong believer that improving STEM education at all levels is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and our children receive an education that will allow them to succeed in the jobs of today and tomorrow. “Our world is much better today because of the investments the United States has made in basic science research,” Rep. Lipinski said. “These investments have resulted in historic breakthroughs in how we understand the world, and have led to advances in medicine and technology that have made possible new products that have created jobs and economic development. That’s why I am committed to keeping the country at the forefront of scientific research and leading the way in developing new technologies and creating new jobs.”
02.10.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has awarded Argonne National Laboratory a nearly $2.9 million grant to study mass transit emergency preparedness. “As we witnessed recently with the deadly accident in Washington, D.C., mass transit safety and emergency preparedness must be top priorities,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I’m pleased that these new resources will be made available to the bright science and engineering minds at Argonne Lab, and that they’ll be pursuing new research into how to keep riders safe and prepare for transit emergencies in the Chicago area and elsewhere. As the Representative of tens of thousands of constituents who take public transportation, co-chair of the Congressional Public Transit Caucus, and a public transit rider, I am very hopeful that this grant will increase safety.” Argonne, in partnership with Pace Suburban Bus Service and Metra Commuter Rail, will receive funding to research and develop a decision support tool for transit asset management that addresses all-hazards emergency response and recovery. The tool will help emergency responders to quickly assess a situation, develop an appropriate mitigation strategy, and restore transit services in the most effective manner, using available transit assets. This project was competitively selected for funding as part of the FTA’s solicitation for proposals under the Innovative Safety, Resiliency, and All-Hazards Emergency Response and Recovery Demonstration program. Congressman Lipinski is the most senior member from Illinois on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, serving on three subcommittees: Aviation; Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and Highways and Transit. He also serves on the Science, Space, and Technology committee. He is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Research and Technology, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Energy. Lipinski’s district includes Argonne National Laboratory, the first national laboratory in the United States and the largest facility of its kind in the Midwest.
02.09.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is being joined by Congressman Reid Ribble (WI-8) in leading a bipartisan group of almost 300 members of Congress, as well as interested stakeholders from across the nation, in calling for House Leadership to advance a responsibly paid-for, multi-year surface transportation reauthorization bill in the coming months. “Very simply, we support transportation and infrastructure investment because our economy needs a national system to safely move people and deliver goods from place to place,” said Rep. Lipinski and his colleagues in a letter to Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “The current extension of the Highway Trust Fund is slated to expire on May 31st of this year. This is not a long way off. We are united in our conviction that now is the time to end the cycle of short-term extensions that kick the can down the road by doing the work needed to pass a long-term surface transportation reauthorization bill.” Republicans and Democrats in the House of Representatives have consistently recognized the importance of a well-functioning and efficient surface transportation network in the United States. Our nation, including constituents in the manufacturing, construction, agriculture, and distribution sectors, needs robust transportation infrastructure to compete in the global economy. Without such a network, the United States will be less able to realize future economic growth. “We were pleased that Congress was able to enact the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act in 2012, but we are more troubled by the significant uncertainty that has plagued federal highway and transit policy in recent years,” Rep. Lipinski said. “In the last decade, there have been nine short-term extensions of highway and transit programs. This kind of uncertainty impedes economic growth and makes it difficult for our country to fulfill its competitive potential.” Congressman Lipinski and most of his peers on both sides of aisle support efforts to develop a long-term sustainable revenue source for our nation’s transportation network as soon as possible. Otherwise, our country will not be able to enact a transportation bill that truly meets our economic and infrastructure needs. Rep. Lipinski is Illinois’ most senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
02.04.2015	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Congressman Rodney Davis (R-IL) introduced H.R. 721, the Short Line Railroad Rehabilitation and Investment Act of 2015. This legislation would extend the Section 45G (26 USC 45G) short line track maintenance tax credit that expired at the end of 2014. “The Short Line Railroad Rehabilitation Tax Credit has been critical in boosting private investment in rail infrastructure,” said Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL). “In the Chicago area, the tax credit has been used to reduce congestion, increase safety, and improve local business competitiveness. Let's continue to put people to work and improve American transportation by enhancing and extending the Short Line tax credit.” “The Short Line Rail Road Tax Credit helps maximize private infrastructure investment and allows these railroads to provide their customers with more customized and competitively priced service,” said Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS). “This bipartisan proposal ensures the continuation of the vital link between our communities and the national freight railroad network.” “I am proud to support our nation’s short line railroads. These successful small companies supply an invaluable service to our nation’s rail backbone,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). “By leveraging this tax credit to redevelop track and track spurs critical to the first and last mile of connectivity to factories, grain elevators, power plants, refineries, mines, and other facilities, these companies provide the key transportation link for rail customers employing more than one million Americans. I look forward to working with my colleagues to extend this successful program.” “Promoting and investing in our infrastructure is a common-ground issue and I am proud to support this effort to strengthen our short line railroads,” said Congressman Rodney Davis (R-IL). “Freight railroad tracks keep our economy moving by connecting farmers and businesses in rural Illinois with the rest of world. By providing more certainty in the tax code we can boost capital investment on our short line railroad tracks.”
01.26.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), a proud graduate of Chicago’s St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep, introduced a resolution in the House this week honoring National Catholic Schools Week and highlighting the contributions to our country made by America's Catholic schools. National Catholic Schools Week is the annual celebration of Catholic education in the United States. It starts the last Sunday in January and runs all week, which this year is January 25 – 31. This year’s theme is “Catholic Schools: Communities of Faith, Knowledge, and Service.” Schools typically observe the annual celebration week with Masses, open houses, and other activities for students, families, parishioners, and community members. “I really appreciate what a blessing it was to be educated in Catholic schools,” said Rep. Lipinski. “By always emphasizing the necessity of a well-rounded educational experience and instilling the values of giving back to the community and helping others, America's Catholic schools produce graduates that have the skills and strength of character needed by our businesses, governments, and communities. My own desire to serve was fostered by dedicated teachers throughout my years at Catholic schools. In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we honor the teachers and administrators who sacrifice so much, in most cases working for less than they could earn elsewhere. Many of my favorite memories are of teachers, including many nuns, who taught me the values of faith and service, along with giving me a great education.” For nine consecutive years, Rep. Lipinski has introduced a resolution in Congress honoring National Catholic Schools Week and praising the outstanding work of Catholic Schools. Lipinski will celebrate National Catholic Schools Week by visiting several schools in the district, including St. Cletus in La Grange, St. John Fisher School in Chicago, and Our Lady of the Ridge in Chicago Ridge.
01.26.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he is nominating 22 students from the 3rd Congressional District for admission to the U.S. Service Academies for the entering classes of 2015. The nominees were recognized by Rep. Lipinski for their achievement at a ceremony on Saturday at the Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 in Oak Lawn. “One of the duties of this office that I cherish the most is the honor to nominate young men and women for our nation's prestigious service academies,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Every year, applications pour into my offices from the district’s best and brightest students. The selection of nominees is based upon a strict ‘whole person’ evaluation, so just to be nominated to one of our nation’s service academies is an incredible honor. I have no doubt that each of these nominees will make significant contributions wherever life takes them. Above all, I am impressed by their unwavering commitment to serving their community and country.” The nominees are: · U.S. Air Force Academy: Ryan Kairis, of Chicago, Marist High School; Andrew Lezon, of Western Springs, Lyons Township High School; Robert Schaefer, of La Grange, Fenwick High School; Charles Schramka, of La Grange, Lyons Township High School · U.S. Military Academy (West Point): Ethan Cook, of Orland Park, Carl Sandburg High School; Thomas Egan, of Chicago, Whitney Young Magnet High School; Ian Murdoch, of Western Springs, Culver Military Academy; Zachary Sowatzke, of Homer Glen, Shepherd High School · Merchant Marine Academy: Jonathan Cline, of Chicago, De La Salle Institute; Ryan Stowell, of La Grange, St. John’s Northwestern Military Academy · U.S. Naval Academy: Alexander Benoit, of Chicago, Marist High School; Mitchell Ciszewski, of La Grange, Lyons Township High School; Abagail Evans, of Tinley Park, Victor J. Andrew High School; Thomas Hampston, of Palos Park, Marist High School; Connor Koehler, of Lemont, Lemont High School; Peter Parrilli, of Chicago, Brother Rice High School; Jacob Rost, of Orland Park, Providence Catholic High School; Matthew Sebok, of Chicago, Brother Rice High School; Jakob Swenson, of Homer Glen, Providence Catholic High School; Amanda Walsh, of La Grange, IL Mathematics and Science Academy; Carl Weydeman, of Chicago, St. Rita High School; Kristen Young, of La Grange, Lyons Township High School The admissions departments of the service academies make the final decision on acceptance. Each of the nominees will be notified by the service academies if they have been accepted.
01.22.2015	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “In his State of the Union Address, President Obama requested that Congress grant him Trade Promotion Authority - also known as fast-track authority - so that Congress would only be allowed an up-or-down vote on any trade agreement with no amendments. Unfortunately, Republicans seem ready, if not eager, to give the President this authority. But Congress has already ceded too much power to the executive and judicial branches, and Americans deserve more transparency and an opportunity for input, not less. It would be especially problematic for the American people - especially the middle class - if Congress gave up its authority when it comes to trade agreements, considering how harmful many of these deals have been to American workers over the past 20 years. “Since NAFTA was signed, Illinois alone has lost 293,000 manufacturing jobs. These were quality jobs with high wages and good benefits that supported middle class families. Since that time, we’ve seen Democratic and Republican presidents continue to negotiate trade agreements with policies that have led to a soaring trade deficit, stagnant wages, and continued outsourcing. “President Obama lobbied Congress to pass the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement a few years ago. We were promised 70,000 new jobs and soaring exports, but the cold reality is a loss of 60,000 in jobs in the past two years and a 25% increase in the manufactured goods trade deficit with Korea. Right now, the President is negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership with 11 major Asian countries that comprise 40% of the United States’ goods trade. The United States already has a more than $40 billion manufacturing trade deficit with these countries and past experience with trade deals indicate this could get much worse, costing more American jobs. Making matters worse, U.S. manufacturers, such as automakers and the steel industry, have serious concerns about currency manipulation by Japan and others, which directly undercuts American jobs and export opportunities, and there’s no assurance that the President’s trade negotiators will fight to prevent this type of economic deceit in the trade pact. “I’ve always said that American manufacturers are the best and most innovative globally, but they can’t compete if we keep ramming through free trade agreements with countries that aren’t being held to a high standard and a level playing field. The passage of my bipartisan manufacturing strategy legislation last Congress was an important step forward for reinvigorating this sector, but even the passage of legislation like that doesn’t change the reality that America’s workers and businesses cannot prosper if our trade policies force them to compete with one hand tied behind their backs. “That’s why Congress needs to consider any trade agreement through regular order procedures that include real debate and the ability to offer amendments, not just one up or down vote on an agreement that was negotiated without transparency. Otherwise, we’re just passing an agreement that repeats the mistakes of the past, putting Americans out of work, threatening our environment, weakening food standards, and lowering workers’ rights globally.”
01.20.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was honored to receive the Bridgeview Lions Club’s Humanitarian Award on Sunday. The award was given out as part of the organization’s Appreciation Awards Ceremony at the Bridgeview Community Center. “This award is a high honor for me,” said Rep Lipinski. “Since its inception, the Bridgeview Lions Club has always been a shining example of the power of community service. Their dedication to the hard-working residents of Bridgeview, Justice, and the surrounding area is to be commended. America is the greatest nation in the world because Americans are willing to step forward and make their communities and their nation better. While I have an important role working in government to represent and help others, we need organizations like the Lions Club and all the individuals who make it work, like Lions Club Past District Governor Ray Jachim and Bridgeview Lions Club President Scott McCauley.” During the ceremony, awards were also given to the Educator, Veteran, and Business of the Year. The Bridgeview Lions Club was chartered in 1975, and will celebrate its 40th Anniversary on May 6th of this year.
01.13.2015	Last night Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped pass in the U.S. House of Representatives the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. Named in honor of Marine Corporal Clay Hunt, an Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran who was awarded the Purple Heart and tragically took his own life, the bill expands access to mental health services for our nation’s veterans and increases the capacity and efficiency of VA care to deal with the more than one million veterans returning from war. “The suicide rate among our brave veterans remains alarmingly high,” said Rep. Lipinski. “After their service and sacrifice for us, it is imperative that we do all we can as a nation to help them with both their physical and mental scars, no matter how long it takes. This bill is another step towards ensuring that no one gets left behind, abroad or at home.” The bill creates a peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning service members with accessing VA mental health care services. It also takes steps to address the shortage of mental health care professionals by authorizing the VA to conduct a student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists. In addition, the bill establishes an interactive website to serve as a centralized information source regarding all mental health services for veterans, and requires yearly evaluations conducted by a third party of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what is working and what’s not working, and to make recommendations to improve care. An estimated 22 veterans commit suicide each day – more than 8,000 each year. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 men and women, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD, or depression. This bill is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA). The bill now moves to the Senate.
01.09.2015	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) on the House of Representatives passing bipartisan legislation to authorize the Keystone XL pipeline: “I support the Keystone XL pipeline as a step toward reducing our dependence on oil imported from unstable and unfriendly countries. In the past, I opposed bills that suspended environmental rules to build Keystone XL, but with those provisions removed from today’s bill, I voted to move the project forward. The safety of our nation’s residents has been and always will be my top concern, and my record shows that I will not compromise or take shortcuts around that approach.”
01.08.2015	Today the House passed the Save American Workers Act of 2015, which Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) introduced along with Rep. Todd Young (IN-9). The bill, which passed with bipartisan support, adjusts the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) definition of full-time employment from 30 hours to the traditional 40-hour workweek, protecting part-time workers from losing wages and work schedule flexibility as employers adjust to the mandates laid out in the ACA. “I voted against the ACA in 2010, but, ever since it passed, I have been calling on Congress to put the people of this country ahead of partisan politics, put aside hopeless repeal efforts, and work together to fix this well-intentioned, but flawed law,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Most Americans will tell you that a full-time workweek is 40 hours, not 30 as defined in the ACA. An unintended consequence of the ACA in its current form is a potential reduction in take-home-pay for millions of hard-working Americans. Many families would suddenly be forced to live with less or find another part time job to try to make up the difference. Changing the law to keep middle class families from having to make this painful choice is just common sense, and hopefully the first of many steps towards making the ACA work better for all Americans.” Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), employers with more than 50 full-time equivalent workers must offer health insurance to their employees or face a penalty. The current law defines full-time status as 30 hours of work per week, significantly below the traditional definition of 40 hours that employers and workers have been accustomed to for decades. As a result of the ACA, hourly or part-time employees working between 30 and 40 hours per week could see their hours reduced. Representatives of the retail, restaurant, and education sectors, as well as local and state government workers from across the country, have testified that the 30-hour definition of full time in the ACA will result in as many as 2.6 million part-time workers having their hours cut, resulting in lost wages. “This Save American Workers Act of 2015 will encourage a business environment where employers in the restaurant and hospitality can focus on creating more jobs, expanding their businesses, and contributing to a robust economy,” said Illinois Restaurant Association President and CEO Sam Toia in a letter to Congressman Lipinski this week. “The implications of this issue cannot be overstated. The restaurant and hospitality industry is the largest private sector employer in the state of Illinois, employing over 517,000 people. Nationally, restaurants employ over 13.5 million people, and our industry is a major driver of the economic recovery. If Congress does not act to address this issue, jobs will be lost and businesses will suffer. The Save American Workers Act of 2015 is commonsense legislation that will protect jobs and strengthen the American economy.” In addition to lost wages, many workers could lose the scheduling flexibility currently available through part-time jobs. In some hourly positions, workers are able to swap shifts and change their hours from week to week in order to accommodate family needs or emergencies. But with a 30-hour definition of full-time work, employers may no longer permit this flexibility, as workers would cycle in and out of full-time status from week to week. “If left unchanged, the ACA 30-hour per week ‘full-time employee’ definition would be crippling to my family restaurant business, which has served customers in the La Grange, Illinois, area for over three decades,” said Steve Palmer, owner of Palmer Place Restaurant & Biergarten. “Many of my employees work part-time and enjoy the flexible schedules that restaurants can offer. Students can balance work with a busy course load. Single parents can take shifts that accommodate their childcare. Very few other industries can boast of such flexibility. Fortunately, Rep. Lipinski and his forward-thinking colleagues listened to my concerns and the concerns of many small business owners across the nation and took immediate action to bring back the traditional work week. I met personally with Rep. Lipinski to share our plight. He took up our cause and championed legislation to help small business owners, their employees, and the overall economy.” “We applaud the work of Rep. Lipinski for his efforts in the House of Representatives, particularly through his sponsorship of bills that restore the ACA’s 30-hour definition of a full-time employee to the more traditional 40-hour work week,” said International Franchise Association President & CEO Steve Caldeira after announcing Lipinski as one the IFA’s Legislators of the Year last year. “His efforts on ACA reform highlight a commitment to providing workers more hours and employers more growth opportunities.”
01.06.2015	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined members from both sides of the aisle today in passing the Hire More Heroes Act, which encourages small businesses to hire more veterans currently receiving health insurance from the United States Department of Defense or the United States Department of Veterans' Affairs. Under the bill authored by Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13) and cosponsored by Lipinski, veterans already receiving health insurance from the government would be excluded from the list of employees counted as part of the rigid guidelines of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), allowing the employer more hiring flexibility when it comes to the brave men and women that have honorably served our nation. “This bill is a victory for our heroic veterans who have sacrificed so much for our country and for small businesses who are the backbone of our economy and the key to future growth in the Third District and the nation,” said Rep. Lipinski. “With many veterans struggling to find work and many small employers wondering how they are going to continue to move forward under mandates laid out in the Affordable Care Act (ACA), this bill is hopefully the first of many steps this new Congress will take to make sure the needs of veterans of all ages are being met, while also continuing changes to the ACA.” During the last Congress, the bill overwhelmingly passed the House, only to stall in the Senate.
12.22.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bipartisan legislation to boost domestic manufacturing and American jobs by requiring a National Strategic Plan for Manufacturing has been signed into law. The bill requires that at least every four years the President work with public and private stakeholders to produce and publish a plan to promote American manufacturing. In addition, every year the President’s budget blueprint will have to contain an explanation of how it promotes the most recent manufacturing strategy. Lipinski’s bill, which passed the House three times over the past five years, was included in legislation that passed both houses and was signed into law by the President last week. Sen. Mark Kirk (IL) had introduced the bill in the Senate and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) was the lead Republican co-sponsor in the House. “From my days growing up near Midway Airport, I have understood how important manufacturing is to good middle-class jobs, strong communities, and America’s defense,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Since I have been in Congress, I have been relentlessly working to bring Washington around to understanding this also, and to producing policies that promote American manufacturing. This bipartisan bill guarantees that Washington has to pay attention to what can be done to help manufacturers and workers. This law can make a real difference by leading to economic growth, increased American security, and more middle class jobs that pay hard-working Americans a family wage. I want to thank Mark Kirk for his leadership on this bill in the Senate and Adam Kinzinger for his help in the House.” “The people of Illinois reflect the highest work ethic of the Midwest,” said Senator Kirk. “It’s those men and women who keep me optimistic about the future of Illinois and the future of manufacturing as a pillar of the Illinois economy.” Based on the Quadrennial Defense Review – the Pentagon's policy planning process – Lipinski’s plan requires that every four years the President consults with manufacturing experts from the private and the public sectors to assess the state of American manufacturing and make recommendations for policies that will help grow American manufacturing. The factors that impact manufacturing that will be explored include technology transfer and commercialization activities; the adequacy of the national security base; the capabilities of the domestic manufacturing workforce; export opportunities and trade policies; financing, investment, and taxation policies and practices; emerging technologies and markets; manufacturing research and development undertaken by competing nations; and the capabilities of the manufacturing workforce of competing nations. “This a big victory for a sector of our economy that over the years has provided so many high quality jobs in my district, in our region, and across the nation, but has taken many hits over the past couple of decades, especially during the recent recession,” said Rep Lipinski. “While manufacturing is by-and-large a private, market endeavor, few can disagree that government policy impacts manufacturing in countless ways. It is essential that the U.S. join many of our competitors in assessing these policies in a comprehensive, coordinated approach. Manufacturing is the linchpin of our economy and the foundation of our middle class, and I promise to continue working to see that manufacturing in this country is strengthened and provided with the tools necessary to thrive.”
12.15.2014	U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Peter Roskam (IL-6) have succeeded in blocking an attempt to add language to the annual federal spending bill – known this year as the “cromnibus” – that would have crippled the economically vital Illinois waterways system and put our environment at risk. Some members of the House had been working on including construction authorization for physical barriers that would restrict barge traffic at the Brandon Road Lock & Dam near Joliet and along the Chicago Area Waterways System. If approved, this would have had a disastrous impact on the current and future potential of the area waterways system, which currently moves 100 million tons of goods worth nearly $28 billion each year, and would have undermined the environmental reviews contained in the bipartisan Water Resources Reform and Development Act signed into law this year. But after Lipinski and Roskam led 15 of their colleagues in a bipartisan letter to Speaker Boehner, the final language of the report accompanying the bill specifically forbids the installation of infrastructure that would effectively close the waterway – a process formally known as hydrologic separation that involves constructing physical barriers. “There is no question that we must continue to fight the spread of Asian carp and other invasive species,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Unfortunately, some of our colleagues had proposed installing physical barriers that would have effectively closed the Illinois Waterways, and would have done so by circumventing congressional debate, proper project review, and the necessary environmental reviews for this project. Fortunately, House leadership responded to our concerns and included language that clearly states that the issue would need to be fully analyzed by the Corps of Engineers and that no funding has been provided in this bill for hydrologic separation. “Funding is only provided for the continued construction, operation, and maintenance of the electric barrier system, which is what I have continued to fight for,” continued Lipinski. “It is clear that a full and proper review process is mandated by law, something that wasn’t going to happen during this lame duck session of Congress. I will continue to work on protecting our region’s waters from invasive species, while also fighting to preserve our local economic and environmental interests. Congress has an obligation to the environment and economy of our nation, and this proposal would have upturned decades of environmental law in the effort to implement a problematic solution to an issue that is being carefully considered and studied by experts.” In addition to Illinois, the bill would have also hurt the economies of Louisiana, Kentucky, Indiana, Tennessee, Ohio, Minnesota, Missouri, Michigan, and West Virginia by delaying shipments of coal, chemicals, and agricultural products from and to these states.
12.15.2014	Critical bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressmen Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Michael McCaul (TX-10) that will increase the security of federal networks and information systems, improve the transfer of cybersecurity technologies to the marketplace, train a cybersecurity workforce, and coordinate and prioritize federal cybersecurity research and development efforts has passed through the Congress, and now awaits the President’s signature. “Since I first introduced this bill in 2010, cyber threats have gotten much worse,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Every day, we wake up to reports of more cyber attacks in this country and around the world. In the United States, these attacks have the potential to destroy our military and economic security. American workers have lost jobs and businesses have been damaged because of cyber espionage, and that’s why it has been a priority of mine for years to get this bill onto the President’s desk to help America thwart cyber attacks.” This legislation will: • Improve coordination in government, providing for a strategic plan to assess cybersecurity risk and guide the overall direction of federal cyber research and development. • Update the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) responsibilities to develop security standards to harden our federal networks and processes for agencies to follow. • Recruit the next generation of cybersecurity professionals to work for federal, state, and local governments through a scholarships-for-service program. • Continue much-needed cybersecurity research and development programs at the National Science Foundation and NIST. “The first step in securing our cyber future is education, and by that, I mean everything from educating individuals, to companies, to the next generation of IT professionals,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This bill works toward these goals by building on existing partnerships, such as the NSF-sponsored Center for System Security and Information Assurance at Moraine Valley Community College in Palos Hills, Illinois. This college in my district has trained hundreds of teachers and college faculty in cyber security related areas since 2003, individuals who are now teaching at community colleges and technical training programs nationwide.”
12.10.2014	Official statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) on the death this morning of Illinois Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka, the first woman in Illinois to serve in two state constitutional offices: “I am deeply saddened by the sudden loss of Judy Baar Topinka. She was a great public servant with unlimited fight in her, not only for issues, but for people she believed in. Judy knew how to get things done and was willing to do what it takes to get them done. She was one-of-a-kind and will be dearly missed. My thoughts and prayers go out to her family and friends, of whom she had many.”
12.08.2014	The Senate has passed Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bill renaming Chicago’s Mount Greenwood Post Office as the Captain Herbert Johnson Memorial Post Office Building. Captain Herbert “Herbie” Johnson died on November 2, 2012, at the age of 54, while battling flames in the attic of a two-story home on Chicago’s South Side. The bill passed the House earlier this year and now awaits the President’s signature. This morning, Rep. Lipinski was joined by members of Herbie Johnson’s family, local firefighters, and Ald. Matt O’Shea at the Mount Greenwood Post Office, located at 3349 West 111th Street, to celebrate passage of the bill. “Captain Johnson heroically served area residents for over 32 years, paying the ultimate price while protecting his city’s residents,” Rep. Lipinski said. “While his duties took him to almost every part of Chicago, his heart belonged to the Southwest Side, especially to the close-knit community of Mount Greenwood. Herbie’s wife of 28 years, Susan, his two sons, Thomas and Michael, and his daughter, Laurie, as well as all of Herbie’s family, continue to be in my prayers and the prayers of so many other people in the surrounding area who knew him well, not only as a courageous and dedicated public servant, but also as an outgoing and caring neighbor and friend.” Captain Johnson learned public service from his family. Three of his brothers are Chicago police officers, a sister is a retired Chicago police officer, and another brother is a Chicago firefighter. Over the years, Johnson taught over one thousand recruits as an instructor at the Robert J. Quinn Fire Academy, and is fondly remembered by those he taught. After the terrorist attacks on 9-11, he volunteered with the rescue efforts in New York City. In 2007, he received the state’s highest award for firefighters, the Illinois Medal of Honor, for rescuing several children from a burning apartment. “Naming a postal facility honoring Captain Johnson is not just a tribute to him and his family, but all first responders who bravely put their lives on the line every day, often for people they don’t even know,” said Congressman Lipinski. “This post office naming will ensure that Captain Herbie Johnson, his family, and the sacrifices of all heroic first responders will always be remembered and appreciated.”
11.26.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is calling on Congress to restore the tax benefit that helps commuters who use transit to get to work. This benefit helps more people use public transportation and eases congestion on the roads. In a letter to Ways and Means Committee Leadership that was joined by three other Chicagoland House members, he asks them to continue the inclusion of the increased transit tax benefit in the tax extender package the House is expected to consider before the end of the year. In the past, commuters riding trains, buses, subways, and other forms of public transit were entitled to $245 in monthly tax-free benefits to defray the costs of their commute, an amount equal to the parking benefit offered to commuters who chose to drive to work. However, Congressional inaction on the transit benefit led to it being reduced by nearly half, to $130 in January of this year. As a result, many commuters who previously utilized this benefit have been forced to either switch back to driving, pay for fares that exceed the monthly benefit out of their pocket, or pay taxes on the fares that were previously excluded from taxable income. “With 2.7 million commuters using the transit benefit to get from home to work, Congress should take action to ensure that riders of public transportation are provided with the same benefits as other commuters,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Moreover, Congress should ensure that the benefit is restored in order to continue efforts to encourage public transportation ridership, which helps get cars off the road, reduce emissions, and eliminate lost time and delays. As Congress seeks to improve our economy and create jobs, helping people get to work must be a priority.”
11.26.2014	U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Peter Roskam (IL-6) are leading a bipartisan effort to stop legislation that threatens to have a devastating impact on a vital economic engine in the Midwest, the Illinois waterways system, which currently moves 100 million tons of goods worth nearly $28 billion each year within the state and region. In a letter to Speaker John Boehner and Leader Nancy Pelosi, Lipinski and Roskam, along with 15 other members, seek to halt the last-minute secret passage of infrastructure projects that have received no debate or consideration, will ignore numerous environmental laws, and will have a negative impact on the local and regional economy by providing for the installation of physical barriers that would restrict barge traffic on the Chicago Area Waterways System. “I have learned that some of my colleagues may be seeking to include construction authorization for infrastructure projects at the Brandon Road Lock & Dam near Joliet and along the Chicago Area WaterwaysSystem in ‘must-pass’ legislation during the upcoming lame duck session,” said Rep. Lipinski in the letter. “Given that this legislation has the effect of potentially restricting commercial barge traffic while upending the environmental and project review processes mandated by law, it is only appropriate that it receive full and proper review. I am asking that any proposal or authorization of such a project be excluded from any ‘must-pass’ legislation.” If approved, the bill would damage the economic competitiveness of the state of Illinois, while also harming the economies of Louisiana, Kentucky, Indiana, Tennessee, Ohio, Minnesota, Missouri, Michigan, and West Virginia by delaying shipments of coal, chemicals, and agricultural products from and to these states. Such an outcome would upend a key part of the nation’s freight network and have far reaching effects in the region, resulting in unnecessary job losses, shipping delays, and increased congestion. In addition to upending environmental reviews, skirting Congressional review, and impacting the economy of the region, the draft legislation would also modify agency jurisdictions by delegating projects on the Chicago Area Waterways System to other entities instead of directly to the Corps of Engineers. Such an action would transfer authority from an expert agency to an agency whose technical capacity to carry out a construction project of this scope is unclear, raising concern as to the quality of the completed project. “It raises serious questions as to which agencies and stakeholders will be responsible for operations and maintenance costs after the project is completed,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “In light of the recent process reforms codified by the overwhelmingly bipartisan Water Resources Reform and Development Act with the intent of streamlining and improving Corps of Engineers project processes, a proposal such as this would unnecessarily interfere with and undermine these new processes designed to move economically and environmentally beneficial projects forward on an expedited basis by switching agency jurisdictions and ignoring the proper course of project approvals.”
11.18.2014	Below you will find Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) speech on the House floor today, welcoming Blase Joseph Cupich as the new Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago, and thanking Francis Cardinal George for his many years of service. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome Blase Joseph Cupich as the new Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago, and to thank Francis Cardinal George for all his years of service to the Archdiocese. Archbishop Cupich is being installed today at a Mass at Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. “After many years of study in the U.S. and in Rome, including a doctorate from Catholic University in August of 1975, Blase Cupich was ordained to the priesthood. In his first assignment, he served as associate pastor at St. Margaret Mary Church and as an instructor at Paul VI High School in Omaha. From 1981 to 1987, he served as Secretary of the Apostolic Nunciatureof the Holy See to the United States here in Washington, DC. “Cupich was appointed Bishop of Rapid City, South Dakota by Saint Pope John Paul II on July 6, 1998. Pope Benedict XVI appointed Cupich Bishop of Spokane on June 30, 2010, and he was installed as the sixth bishop on September 3, 2010. “Cupich has served as Chair of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops’ Committee on the Protection for Children and Young People since 2008. He has remained a strong advocate for children, saying that the Catholic Church needs to put children first and foremost. In March 2013, he began a three-year term as chairman of the National Catholic Education Association. “In addition to his dedication to Catholic education, Archbishop Cupich is committed to Catholic social teaching of reaching out to help the poor and others at the margins of society. Yesterday at the Rite of Reception he spoke of the challenges that he will face including immigration reform, violence in the streets, drug problems, and staying connected to “real lives of people.” I look forward to working together with our new Archbishop on these and other issues. “Archbishop Cupich is succeeding Cardinal Francis George, who has been Archbishop of Chicago for 17 years. Cardinal George was ordained to the Priesthood in 1963 at his home parish of St. Pascal Church in Chicago, Illinois. His older sister, Margaret, remembers a young Cardinal George holding pretend Masses in his bedroom as a child. “After earning several degrees including his Master of Theology from the University of Ottawa in 1971, George embarked on a journey across the globe as a student and missionary. From 1974 to 1986, he served as Vicar General of the Oblates in Rome. With this position, he led numerous priests and brothers as they journeyed across the world. George then went on to earn two doctorates. In 1997, he was appointed by Saint Pope John Paul II as Archbishop of Chicago and in 1998 he was elevated to Cardinal. “Despite being diagnosed with polio at age 13 and battling cancer currently, Cardinal George has never slowed down. “Even illness can be a gift in some way,” Cardinal George has said. His spirited demeanor is well known to Catholics. Bishop Francis Kane has said, “He’s involved on so many levels. He’s involved nationally, he’s involved in our whole archdiocese, and then he loves to go out to individual parishes.” “But Cardinal George’s outreach goes beyond the Catholic community. He is known to convene inter-religious discussions and shows deep respect for other faith communities. And he is deeply committed to social justice that reaches to all corners of our society. “On a personal level, the more that I have had the opportunity to get to know Cardinal George, the more I admire him. He is an intellectual powerhouse who has a special ability to communicate great truths in a simple manner. Every time I hear him speak I learn something that enriches my mind and my faith. But his intellect is not a distant intellect of a philosopher in an abstract world, but it is well-grounded in an understanding of the everyday life of his people. And as someone who appreciates directness, I have always liked his straightforwardness. Maybe that is because Cardinal George and I are both Chicagoans. I will never forget the time he took with my wife Judy and me two years ago in Rome on the eve of the installation of Pope Francis. He truly is a remarkable man and a great shepherd. “Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me today in welcoming Archbishop Cupich and honoring Francis Cardinal George. I offer both men my prayers as they enter into a new phase of their calling by God and the Catholic Church to the service of others.” # # Lipinski Welcomes Archbishop Cupich, Thanks Cardinal George in House Floor Speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fnJz-yRlZkY&feature=youtu.be
11.18.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “My heart goes out to the loved ones of the pilot that lost his life this morning when a small twin-engine cargo plane crashed shortly after taking off from Midway Airport into a home in the 6500 block of South Knox Avenue in Chicago. My prayers are also with the couple whose home was damaged and their neighbors. It is truly a miracle that more people were not injured in this accident. I would like to thank the first responders and surrounding neighbors for their quick response to a situation made even more difficult by the weather. Their immediate reaction says a lot about the community we live in. “I have been in touch with Chicago and federal aviation officials about the crash and in the coming days I look forward to receiving additional updates about the ongoing investigation into this incident. It is of the utmost importance that we do all we can to ensure the safety of ‎all those flying into and out of Midway Airport, as well as the safety of those living in the surrounding communities.”
11.14.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, Department of Energy officials, and other members of Congress this morning to announce new High Performance Computing awards that will put the nation on a fast-track to next generation computing, which will help to advance U.S. leadership in scientific research and promote America’s economic and national security. Lipinski helped write the 2010 America COMPETES Act that increased investments in computing and other innovation programs. Secretary Moniz announced $325 million to build two state-of-the-art supercomputers at the Department of Energy’s Oak Ridge and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories. Argonne National Laboratory will announce its award at a later time. “We’re fortunate in Illinois to have two of the fastest supercomputers in the world in MIRA at Argonne and Blue Waters at the University of Illinois,” said Rep. Lipinski. “These projects are critical to American competitiveness because by building faster supercomputers we extend the frontier on what is possible in computing technology. That drives efforts to make processors smaller and faster and to make better use of new architectures. The benefits can be seen in the smartphones we hold in our hands today that have more computational power than the fastest supercomputers did 30 years ago. What we call Silicon Valley came about because of the large US investment in defense and scientific research, with a little help from scientists and engineers at Bell Labs. Today, computing infrastructure is just as vital to keeping our economic engines going in the tech industry. And high performance computers also have dozens of important applications across the research, industrial, and defense sectors.” The joint Collaboration of Oak Ridge, Argonne, and Lawrence Livermore (CORAL) was established in early 2014 to leverage supercomputing investments, streamline procurement processes, and reduce costs to develop supercomputers that will be five to seven times more powerful than today’s U.S. fastest systems when fully deployed. “Supercomputers like MIRA have traditionally been a strength of the U.S. investment in research, but today that lead is being challenged by other countries,” Congressman Lipinski said. “While the U.S. is home to 233 of the world’s 500 fastest computers as measured by the most recent Top 500 report in June, that’s down from 291 systems just five years ago. Announcements like today’s are a big part of maintaining our lead in this field and I applaud Secretary Moniz and Director Peter Littlewood from Argonne for their leadership and vision in keeping the US at the forefront.” Moving forward, Congressman Lipinski urged Congress to do its part in providing funding for high performance computing projects. He said the Senate needs to follow the House’s lead and pass the American Super Computing Leadership Act, which would encourage more projects like the ones that were announced today. He said fighting for increased investments for high performance computing and other critical areas of science is going to be one of his top priorities on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee in the next Congress.
11.10.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski is currently accepting nomination request letters from young men and women in the Third Congressional District who want to enter one of the U.S. Service Academies in 2015. “One of my congressional duties that I cherish the most is helping young men and women pursue their goal of serving our nation by entering one of our military service academies,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is an honor and privilege to be able to nominate outstanding young leaders who want to serve others. I encourage those who are interested to begin a process that could truly change their lives and the future of our nation.” The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1st of the year they would enter the academy, be a United States citizen, have graduated from high school, be unmarried, have taken the ACT and/or SAT, and have met the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January of 2015, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is December 1, 2014. Please be advised that a congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance into the academy. Nomination requests should be submitted to Rep. Lipinski’s office at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL, 60638. The phone number is (312) 886-0481.
11.03.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has been chosen by the over 400,000 members of the RetireSafe organization to receive their “Standing Up for America’s Seniors” Leadership Award. The award is presented to a small group of elected officials each year who have distinguished themselves through various actions that benefit seniors throughout the nation, now and in the future. RetireSafe is a nonpartisan organization. “I take great pride in looking out for the interests of the Third District's senior citizens while on Capitol Hill, and stand ready to help them cut through bureaucratic red tape at home to get the services they need when they need them,” said Rep. Lipinski. “My office has helped countless seniors get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans' benefits, the Postal Service, and many other federal issues. I also host Senior Fairs throughout the year to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from my staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses.” Rep. Lipinski is receiving the award for his proactive efforts to finally establish an accurate consumer price index (CPI) upon which fair and equitable cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) may be calculated for Social Security beneficiaries and military retirees. The RetireSafe organization is also appreciative of his co-sponsorship of H.R. 523, the “Protect Medical Innovation Act,” a critical measure for Medicare beneficiaries and patients of all ages, and his sponsorship of H.R. 2853, the “Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act,” an important bill for hospital patients.
10.31.2014	Argonne National Laboratory Will Play an Important Role Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is starting a new program designed to accelerate the movement of innovative clean energy technologies from the DOE’s National Laboratories into the commercial marketplace. This is part of Lipinski’s efforts to grow American jobs by taking advantage of the innovations created with the help of federally-funded research. In doing so, not only are more jobs created, but Americans get a better return on the investment of their tax dollars. Built on the National Science Foundation’s Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program long-championed by Rep. Lipinski, Lab-Corps aims to better train and empower national lab researchers to successfully transition their discoveries into high-impact, real world technologies in the private sector. The I-Corps program was initially developed from a course conceived by Silicon Valley serial entrepreneur Steve Blank, and has led to the creation of many new companies in its short existence. As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Lipinski used his leadership position to advocate for the development of this program, which will involve Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont. “The total cost of this program is relatively modest compared to its potential value,” said Congressman Lipinski. “Just like I-Corps, Lab-Corps represents a low-cost way to take laboratory discoveries and turn them into profit-making companies and high quality jobs that boost economic growth and American competitiveness.” Argonne is one of just five national labs that will recruit and support the Lab-Corps teams, helping new innovations reach their commercial potential. Rep. Lipinski wrote to then-Energy Secretary Steven Chu in April of last year urging him to allow scientists at Argonne to participate, and raised the issue again with current Secretary Ernest Moniz in hearings before the Science Committee.
10.29.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the U.S. Department of Energy is now soliciting entries for the $1 million H2 Refuel H-Prize. The H-Prize was created by Rep. Lipinski’s H-Prize Act, which was passed into law in 2007. The purpose is to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and protect the environment by inspiring researchers to capitalize on hydrogen's tremendous promise as a clean fuel source. “I introduced the H-Prize Act and fought to get it enacted into law because I believe America must lead in the development of alternative energy and work towards energy independence,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Although gas prices have fallen some recently, middle class families are still struggling to afford to fill up their gas tanks, and we know about the national security threats posed by our continued reliance on foreign oil. We have a responsibility to find new and creative ways such as this to encourage researchers, business leaders, and our young people to utilize new energy sources. Producing power with hydrogen has the potential to revolutionize the energy and transportation sectors by replacing polluting, gas-guzzling engines with an efficient source of clean power.” This two-year competition challenges America's engineers and entrepreneurs to develop affordable systems that can be installed in homes to produce hydrogen which can be used to power fuel cell vehicles. The competition plans to offer a $1 million cash prize to the team that demonstrates the best system. “The H-Prize is a win for taxpayers, national security, the economy, and the environment,” said Congressman Lipinski. “It provides funding that is relatively modest in the context of the federal budget, but still constitutes a substantial incentive for individuals and organizations to undertake cutting-edge research. And it sets specific technical benchmarks that submissions must meet before they can receive an award, ensuring the prize money will be well spent.” In the first year of the competition, teams are tasked to find partners, design a system, find a site to install the system, and register for the competition before submitting data and designs to a team of independent judges. The judges will select the top teams as finalists to advance to the testing phase. During the second year, finalist teams have seven months to build, install, and prepare their systems for testing. The winner will demonstrate that they can meet both the technical and cost criteria as outlined in the final guidelines. The H2 Refuel H-Prize will be administered by the Hydrogen Education Foundation for the Energy Department. For more information, visit hydrogenprize.org.
10.23.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined federal, state and local officials this morning in celebrating the opening of the long-awaited $142 million Englewood Flyover. The flyover is a bridge that carries Metra’s Rock Island line over the Norfolk Southern/Amtrak tracks near 63rd Street and State Street in Chicago. Rock Island line passengers - including those boarding Metra trains in Tinley Park, Beverly, and Morgan Park - will see fewer delays as a result of this project. “The completion of the Englewood Flyover means improvement in the quality of life for area residents,” said Rep. Lipinski (IL-3). “The benefits include fewer delays for Metra and Amtrak users, fewer delays for area drivers, better air quality, a reduction in noise from idling trains, and an overall improvement in safety.” The flyover is an integral part of the CREATE rail modernization project, a partnership between the federal government, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the Chicago Department of Transportation, Metra, and the Association of American Railroads to reduce congestion with track, switch, and signal upgrades, as well as new overpasses and underpasses. Congressman Lipinski obtained the initial $100 million for CREATE back in 2005, and helped to secure and preserve the funding for the flyover. “Completing the flyover is another step towards untangling the region’s congested freight and commuter rail system,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am committed to seeing the rest of the much-needed CREATE projects through to completion.” The Englewood Flyover transports 78 weekday Rock Island Line trains over the tracks used by about 60 freight trains and 14 Amtrak trains a day.
10.20.2014	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced the winners of the 2014 Senior Citizen of the Year Award during a luncheon in Countryside. The winners were chosen based on their dedication to volunteerism and involvement in their communities in the Third Congressional District. “These humble individuals from all walks of life demonstrate daily the outstanding spirit and commitment that exists in all or our communities,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I am honored to recognize these seniors who have selflessly donated their time and energy to causes and pursuits that teach us all the value of service.” The 2014 Senior Citizen of the Year Award winners are: Thomas Baliga, Chicago; George Bartik, Willow Springs; Phillip Chiapetto, Palos Heights; Walter Gusich, Chicago; Joe and Theresa Hiller, Stickney; Stacy Korress, Palos Hills; Mary Kos, Oak Lawn; Sam Marcolini, Cicero; Joseph Rice, Chicago; Mary Ellen Sheehan, Chicago; and Frank Wozniak of Lemont. The winners were nominated by their neighbors and others in their communities who were familiar with their remarkable contributions. Out of the hundreds of nominations that were received, only a select few are chosen to receive this special honor. All of the winners were recognized at an award ceremony today at the Capri of Countryside Banquet Hall, located at 6200 Joliet Road, in Countryside.
10.09.2014	No Labels, a national organization dedicated to a new politics of problem solving, has awarded its “Problem Solver Seal of Approval” to Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) for his support of the group’s year-long effort to create a National Strategic Agenda, a roadmap for the country based on goals shared by both parties. No Labels is calling for America's leaders to support a new governing process to build a National Strategic Agenda centered on four goals. These goals – chosen with input from a nationwide survey that No Labels conducted last fall – are: · Create 25 million new jobs over the next 10 years; · Balance the federal budget by 2030; · Secure Medicare and Social Security for another 75 years; and · Make America energy secure by 2024. “Disagreements over specific policies or politics aren't the only causes of perpetual gridlock in D.C.,” said No Labels co-founder Mark McKinnon. “Our leaders haven’t defined a shared vision about what our country’s goals are. The National Strategic Agenda will enable our leaders to decide together where we as a nation should be going and how we will get there. We commend Rep. Lipinski for his support of this new governing process and his willingness to challenge the status quo on Capitol Hill.” The National Strategic Agenda, with specific policy proposals to address each of the four goals, will be developed over the course of the next year through working groups and meetings all over the country with elected officials and policy experts, business and community leaders, and citizens. No Labels will be developing the agenda in partnership with Deloitte Consulting LLP, a worldwide leader in strategy consulting. Rep. Lipinski will be among those participating in the process. The comprehensive agenda will be unveiled in New Hampshire in October 2015. More than 80 members of Congress have already endorsed the campaign for a National Strategic Agenda.
10.08.2014	This morning, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with La Grange Village President Tom Livingston, Metra CEO Don Orseno, state and city officials, and other interested business leaders and community members to cut the ribbon on the village’s newly renovated Metra station at Stone and Burlington Avenues. Village President Livingston thanked Lipinski for his commitment to improving the quality of life for residents in the district. He said this much needed update would not have been possible without Lipinski securing a $700,000 earmark for the $1.15 million project back in 2009. “This is a great day for the Village of La Grange as it continues to prosper while maintaining strong ties to its historic past,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Seeing this beautiful, historic local landmark finally restored, I am very happy to have been able to bring the money home to make it possible. As a strong supporter of public transportation, it is great to see this restoration combined with the addition of several user-friendly modern enhancements that will benefit the over one thousand daily commuters that make this one of the busiest stations on the Burlington Northern line.” “Stone Avenue Station is very important to La Grange and surrounding communities,” said La Grange Village President Tom Livingston. “Thanks to Congressman Lipinski, the village can continue to build on its image as a transit oriented community. We’re looking forward to making additional upgrades to the area around the station in the coming months and years.” Designed by local architect John Tilton, built in 1901, and designated a local landmark by the La Grange Area Historical Society in 1971, the station slowly deteriorated over time, making a comprehensive renovation necessary. The Village of La Grange, Metra, and BNSF Railway collaborated on the project. After years of delays, construction officially began last fall. The new facility includes a careful and historically respectful rehabilitation of the structure, accessibility upgrades, the addition of a "kiss and ride" area, and improved bicycle facilities. Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
10.07.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “The United States has been engaging ISIL in Iraq for nearly nine weeks and has been conducting airstrikes against the terror group in Syria and Iraq for two weeks. I agree that ISIL presents a serious threat to the U.S. and its allies in the region, and that we must continue to confront them and work to end their inhuman conduct. “I voted to authorize the Administration to start training and equipping Syrians to fight ISIL once they have been vetted and cleared of terror connections; this initial authorization expires December 11th. However, Congress has not voted on a measure to authorize the ongoing airstrikes or other U.S. military involvement in Syria or Iraq. Rather, the President is relying on two congressional resolutions, one passed in 2001 in response to the attacks of 9-11 and the other passed in 2002 authoring the Iraq War. Since it is debatable whether these two resolutions are applicable to the current situation, it would be best for Congress to reconvene as soon as possible to consider a use of force resolution specific to this conflict. This would give Congress more time to seek answers concerning the Administration’s strategy in this conflict and how much progress – if any – has been made so far, and to have a full debate about what our nation's role should be not just in the short term but in the longer term in the region. “Right now, Congress appears to be more concerned about being home to campaign than looking after the security of the American people. We should not duck our responsibility in dealing with this situation as well as other ongoing threats.”
10.03.2014	Today, on the third annual National Manufacturing Day, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is thanking our nation’s manufacturers and their hard-working employees for the critical role they play in our national economy and in keeping good-paying jobs in our local communities. “Today is an opportunity to salute a sector of our economy that over the years has provided so many high quality jobs in my district and across the United States,” stated Rep Lipinski. “Manufacturing is the linchpin of our economy and the foundation of our middle class, and I promise to continue working to see that manufacturing in this country is strengthened and provided with the tools necessary to thrive.” To create a focused strategy for growing domestic manufacturing and reverse the offshoring of jobs, Congressman Lipinski has developed the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 2477. This bill is a powerful tool for producing concrete action to help American manufacturers create jobs. It requires the President to bring together private-sector leaders and government officials to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the manufacturing sector and develop a strategy that includes specific recommendations for promoting American manufacturing. To make sure we stay the course, this strategy would be updated every four years and its implementation would be reviewed annually. Lipinski’s bill passed the House in September as part of H.R.2996, the bipartisan Revitalize American Manufacturing and Innovation (RAMI) Act. To ensure that the $530 billion the federal government spends annually on goods and services buys products made by American workers, Lipinski has introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 3346. Under this bill, products would have to be 75 percent made in America to be considered American-made, rather than only 50 percent. In addition, before waiving Buy American requirements, federal agencies would be required to consider the impact on domestic employment and to undertake a more thorough search to make sure that no U.S.-made product is viable. Finally, agencies would be prohibited from segmenting projects to slip under the minimum purchase threshold level that triggers the Buy American rules. National Manufacturing Day is organized by several national manufacturing associations, as well manufacturers themselves, to draw attention to the industry through hundreds of events nationwide. Students, teachers, parents, job seekers, and other local community members are invited to open houses designed to showcase modern manufacturing technology and careers. For more information on National Manufacturing Day, visit www.mfgday.com.
09.29.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that Cook County School District 104 in Summit and Bedford Park is being awarded a nearly $350,000 grant for this school year by the U.S. Department of Education. This grant is part of the Professional Development for Arts Educators Program (PDAE). “This grant will allow educators in Summit and Bedford Park to provide enhanced learning opportunities and to help develop a deep appreciation for the arts among our young students,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The district will be able to build upon its already impressive record of service while improving the overall experience of its students. I look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of dedicated educators in the Third District.” The PDAE program supports the implementation of high-quality model professional development programs in elementary and secondary education for music, dance, drama, media arts, or visual arts, including folk arts, for educators and other arts instructional staff of kindergarten through grade 12 students.
09.29.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has helped secure $200,000 for Cook County through the Economic Development Administration. This investment supports the start-up efforts of the Chicago Metro Metal Consortium Manufacturing Community. Focused on accelerating the development of the metals manufacturing cluster in the Chicago region, this investment will help develop long-term growth strategies for community investment and workforce development that will ultimately lead to higher-skill, higher wage jobs. “I’m always interested in helping local organizations and businesses talk directly with federal agencies and tap into the assistance that is available to them,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The last few years have been extremely difficult for the manufacturing industry in both the region and the country, which is why I will continue to do everything I can to help businesses create quality, long term jobs for the middle class.” In May of this year the Chicago Metro Metal Consortium Manufacturing Community was announced as a designated Manufacturing Community, part of the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership initiative. The U.S. Commerce Department-led program is designed to accelerate the resurgence of manufacturing in communities nationwide by supporting the development of long-term economic development strategies that help communities attract and expand private investment in the manufacturing sector and increase international trade and exports.
09.19.2014	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has joined with Rep. Randy Hultgren (IL-14) to introduce the Standards Addressing Federal Transparency and Oversight With Evolving Recruitment Specifications (SAFE TOWERS) Act. The bill reverses the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) convoluted and confusing new hiring process, which has passed over the most qualified air traffic controller candidates and raised concerns about safety and transparency. For decades, the FAA has relied on colleges and universities to prepare air traffic controllers through the Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI), ensuring candidates are well-trained for the position. This year, the FAA changed its hiring practices with few details given about how the changes would be implemented and with little advance warning. The new procedures have resulted in students who have spent large amounts of time and money training to be air traffic controllers unjustly disqualified by the opaque Biographical Questionnaire (Bio Q). In addition, many have “aged out” after turning 31 during the application process, thus becoming ineligible for the job for which they were specifically trained. “When it comes to hiring air traffic controllers, we must make sure we are doing everything we can to ensure the safety of the flying public,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The hiring process seems to have been working well in regard to safety, so it is unclear why these changes were made. “Lewis University in Romeoville has one of the premier CTI programs in the nation,” continued Lipinski. “For years its graduates, along with our military controllers, have gone on to proudly work for the FAA. Now, with these hastily implemented hiring procedures, the FAA is turning its back on the students and brave veterans that should be the backbone of our air traffic control system, in favor of a process that lacks transparency.” “The SAFE TOWERS Act is targeted at making sure we have the best and brightest in our control towers. When you climb into an airliner, you trust the pilot, the crew, and air traffic controllers will keep you safe,” said Rep. Hultgren. “The new hiring standards jeopardize air travel safety because they divert the hiring process around highly-qualified, CTI-certified trainees, in favor of ‘off-the-street’ candidates. I have met with air traffic controllers in my district, collegiate training initiative (CTI) students, teachers, and administrators who were blindsided by the FAA’s decision after spending tens of thousands of dollars and hours in specialized training courses. The FAA has been non-responsive to inquiries about how hiring ‘off-the-street’ candidates make our skies safer. We still have more questions than answers.” Previously, Reps. Lipinski and Hultgren led a bipartisan group of the Illinois delegation in pressing U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx for answers regarding the FAA’s new hiring procedures. Among other provisions, the SAFE TOWERS Act would: · Restore preferred status for CTI graduates with school recommendations and qualified veterans back into the hiring process. · Eliminate the use of a Biographical Assessment that unduly disqualifies applicants. · Allow candidates who will have aged out from the interim hiring process, or were deemed unqualified by the Bio Q, the chance to reapply. · Establish an ATC Advisory Committee, composed of relevant educational institutions and organizations, to provide advice and recommendations to the Administrator of the FAA in regards to needs, objectives, plans, and content of air traffic control training programs. o Requires an annual report from the Advisory Committee to Congress citing recommendations. The FAA must respond within 60 days explaining why they did or did not comply. o Requires the FAA to notify Advisory Committee and CTI schools prior to any future changes in the hiring process and allow the schools an opportunity to comment. o Requires the FAA take into consideration locally developed training initiatives at CTI schools when establishing best practices nationwide.
09.19.2014	U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) have introduced bipartisan legislation, the Leveraging and Energizing America’s Apprenticeship Programs (LEAP) Act, to reinvigorate America’s apprenticeship programs in skilled industries. “Millions of hard working Americans continue to struggle to find work, while millions of jobs are left unfilled because companies are unable to find qualified workers,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This problem is not going to go away on its own. In an effort to better prepare our nation’s workforce for today and tomorrow, and to ensure that Americans fill these positions, it’s imperative that Congress approve the LEAP Act. It’s a win-win for both employers and employees, and the bill would be fully paid for through an offset.” The need for qualified candidates for essential jobs in industries such as construction, electric, welding, and pipe fitting is significant and growing. By 2018, a recent Georgetown study projects there will be shortages of between three and five million skilled workers. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will take an essential step towards combating these significant problems by providing an incentive driven approach to get more companies to promote and offer apprenticeship programs, and get more Americans trained and into the workforce,” said Rep. Davis. Key components of the LEAP Act include: · Offering a federal tax credit for hiring new apprentices that are registered with the U.S. Department of Labor or a state apprenticeship agency. · Addressing the fact that the average age of apprentices is currently as high as 29 by offering a tax credit of $1,500 for apprentices under 25. The tax credit for apprentices over 25 is $1,000. · Being fully paid for through an offset: cutting printing waste by barring the federal government from producing publications that are available online with an exception for seniors, Medicare recipients, and in communities with limited internet access. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Sens. Tim Scott (R-SC) and Cory Booker (D-NJ).
09.17.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined a bipartisan group of members today in helping pass an amendment to give the Defense Department authority to train and equip Syrians fighting the terrorist group ISIL. The amendment was added to a bill that will fund operations of the government until December 11th. That legislation was passed by the House and final approval is expected in the Senate as early as tomorrow. Statement from Rep. Lipinski: “The terrorist group ISIL is a threat, not only to people in Iraq, Syria, and the rest of the Middle East, but to the rest of the world, including all of us here at home. We have seen their inhuman brutality not just in the beheadings of two Americans, but in the slaughter of tens of thousands of innocent people. Women are especially subject to horrible acts by ISIL. “Unfortunately, the Administration failed miserably in leadership when it came to addressing this threat over the past couple of years. Without leadership from the U.S., no one else has and no one else will step forward, and ISIL will continue to grow. We should not allow this threat to our security to continue to grow. “I share the concerns that many Americans have after the debacle following the Iraq invasion. The lost lives and wasted resources are heartbreaking. We cannot repeat those mistakes. But that is not a reason to do nothing. “I support the Administration’s decision to begin air strikes against ISIL, although I believe that congressional approval should be sought if this campaign is to continue. We have seen these air strikes save many people from a humanitarian crisis and we have seen ISIL’s advance thwarted. “But in addition to air strikes, in order to push ISIL back, there is a need for troops on the ground. It makes sense that these troops are the people from the region who have the most on the line right now. In Iraq, the Peshmerga and Iraqi security forces are on the ground. In Syria, the plan is to train and equip appropriately vetted Syrians to do the fighting on the ground. “While I have some concerns about this plan, the amendment we voted on today makes sure that Congress receives details about how the Defense Department will screen, train, and equip the Free Syrian Army and/or other non-terror aligned groups prior to that taking place, and about the mission’s strategy, timeline, and level of involvement of U.S. forces, and following that, progress reports every 90 days about changes or updates to the plan, statistics on attacks and American assistance, and the effects of our assistance. The Administration must follow through on these requirements and Congress must seriously conduct oversight and decide whether to continue or to cut off the authorization and funding. “American forces should not be the frontline of this fight. The Administration must use the means of persuasion at its disposal to build a broad regional and international coalition. But it is imperative for American security that ISIL be dismantled and we must keep up the fight.”
09.17.2014	The International Franchise Association has named Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Todd Young (R-IN) as its 2014 Legislator of the Year award recipients during IFA’s 15th Annual Public Affairs Conference. The Legislator of the Year Award is given to lawmakers that support a pro-franchising, pro-business agenda. “We applaud the work of Reps. Young and Lipinski for their efforts in the House of Representatives, particularly through their sponsorship of bills that restore the Affordable Care Act’s 30-hour definition of a full-time employee to the more traditional 40-hour work week,” said IFA President & CEO Steve Caldeira, CFE. “Their efforts on ACA reform highlight a commitment to providing workers more hours and employers more growth opportunities.” Illinois congressman Dan Lipinski has dedicated his career to promoting innovative job growth, developing strategic American manufacturing and streamlining transportation infrastructure in Chicago. Known as a champion for the middle class, Lipinski is an integral member of the push to facilitate economic growth, foster community enrichment and further meaningful job creation. Rep. Lipinski has been a strong advocate for repealing the Affordable Care Act’s 30-hour definition of a full-time employee, by sponsoring bills such as H.R. 2988/S. 1188, the Forty Hours is Full Time Act. Redefining a full-time employee as one who works 30 hours per week could ultimately hurt employees by forcing employers to limit their workers’ hours to avoid penalties or significant cost increases. In March of this year, Rep. Young, a Marine Corps veteran, introduced H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act. H.R. 2575 aims to redefine the Affordable Care Act's 30-hour definition of full-time employee, particularly in relation to the Act’s provision of health care requirement. The provision will require small businesses to offer health care benefits to 30-hour, full-time employees or they will incur significant fines. This will harm small businesses’ growth opportunities, by reducing their ability to hire new employees and ultimately their financial capital. “We commend both Rep. Young and Rep. Lipinski’s for their efforts to protect small business owners by making the employer mandate in the ACA easier to implement,” said Calderia. IFA's annual Public Affairs Conference gathers more than 300 franchise business leaders in Washington to educate Congress about public policy issues that specifically impact the economic health of franchise small businesses. Members of the franchise business community will meet with more than 200 lawmakers to stress the economic impact of franchising and its potential to create job growth. The Public Affairs Conference is part of IFA’s Franchise Action Network (FAN), a strategic initiative that seeks to mobilize the franchise industry at the grassroots level. It will present a united front against anti-franchising forces as well as educate policymakers on the franchise business model and its positive impact on communities across the country.
09.16.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is reacting to the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) new report on abortion coverage in the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The report shows that taxpayer dollars are currently going to pay for over one thousand health insurance plans that include abortion. Official statement from Rep. Lipinski: “Under the Hyde Amendment, which has been included in every government funding bill for more than two decades, no federal taxpayer dollars are to be spent for abortions or health care plans that cover abortion, except in cases of rape, incest, or threat to the mother’s life. Despite my fight to include similar language in the ACA, an accounting gimmick was inserted into the bill instead to try to alleviate the concerns of the large majority of Americans who oppose their tax dollars paying for abortion. This gimmick required health insurers to create a separate fund to pay for abortions and no taxpayer dollars were to go into that fund. Instead, every enrollee in a plan was to pay their own money into that fund. “Today, we learned that the GAO has identified 1,036 plans that pay for abortions and do not have a separate fund free of taxpayer dollars, making it absolutely clear that taxpayer funds are being used to pay for abortions under the ACA. This suggests the Administration is allowing health insurance companies to even ignore the accounting gimmick that they put into the law in order to gain support. “In addition, the GAO has found that in five states there was not one health care plan offered on the state insurance exchange that did not cover abortion. The ACA required that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) ensure there was at least one insurance plan in each state that did not cover abortion except in the restricted circumstances. Without the GAO study, we may never have known this because it was almost impossible for an individual shopping on the exchanges to find out whether or not abortion – or almost anything else – was covered under each plan. This despite the promise of the exchanges providing clear explanations of what was covered under every plan. Again, the Administration apparently has ignored provisions it had touted when the bill was being considered. “I voted against the ACA in part because of the inclusion of taxpayer funding for abortion. Now we see that provisions that were included in the law in regard to taxpayer funding of abortion and the promise of every American having the ability to purchase a plan on the exchange that didn’t cover abortion have not been implemented. All of this is completely unacceptable. “I will continue to fight to stop taxpayer dollars from being used to pay for abortions, as supported by a large majority of Americans. But until we can get that accomplished, the least that we can do is to make sure that the law is followed. That is something every American should agree with.” Lipinski is the cosponsor of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (HR 5939), the Patients First Act (H.R. 877), and the Protect Life Act (HR 5111). The information in this report only applies to 2014 plans. It does not answer questions for the consumers that will shop in the 2015 Open Season. For 2015, Lipinski is calling for plans to clearly and prominently disclose abortion coverage.
09.16.2014	In a bipartisan vote Monday night, the House of Representatives approved the Revitalize American Manufacturing and Innovation Act (RAMI), H.R. 2996. The bill, cosponsored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), would boost American manufacturing by establishing a network of manufacturing innovation and enabling public-private partnerships through centers for manufacturing innovation. “Manufacturing is a linchpin of our nation's economy,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “It provides the American middle class with a source of quality jobs making everything from the goods we rely on for everyday needs, to the equipment that we need for national security. In the first decade of this century, the middle class took a hard hit, when almost one-third of manufacturing jobs disappeared. I have seen the devastation in my district and across northeastern Illinois, and I get frustrated, just like you do, when I go to the store and I cannot find the words ‘Made in the U.S.A.’ on any product.” The RAMI Actincludes the text of a bill Congressman Lipinski introduced, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, HR 2447. This legislation would establish a public-private process for assessing the current competitive state of manufacturing in the United States, compare this against the policies and status of manufacturing in competing nations, and propose measures for the government and stakeholders to take in order to promote manufacturing in the U.S. Based on the Quadrennial Defense Review, the Pentagon's policy planning process, the bill proposes that a group of manufacturing experts from the private and the public sectors would be convened every four years to reassess the progress of American manufacturing and make new recommendations. “While I agree that manufacturing is by-and-large a private, market endeavor, few can disagree that manufacturing intersects with government policy in countless ways,” said Lipinski. “From tax and trade, to regulation, to research, education, and workforce development, government policies have a significant effect on our manufacturers. It is essential that the U.S. join many of its competing nations in assessing these policies in a comprehensive, coordinated approach. That’s what this bill does.” Rep. Lipinski believes that the deployment of centers of manufacturing innovation, as spelled out the RAMI Act, will help improve the competitiveness of manufacturing across the nation. Using these high-tech facilities will help attract more students to manufacturing and STEM careers, enabling a greater range of research and development on manufacturing processes and products, and improving commercialization opportunities for firms small and large. Earlier this year, Lipinski joined in the announcement of the Digital Manufacturing and Design Innovation Institute in Chicago. This public-private initiative, hosted by the University of Illinois offshoot UI Labs, has leveraged a $70 million federal investment to achieve a commitment of $250 million from industry, academia, government and community partners that will harness expertise and facilities to improve manufacturing processes and innovation and design capabilities to a wide range of stakeholders. “Other competing nations are making their own serious investments in next-generation institutions and facilities in support of their domestic industries, and it makes competitive sense for the U.S. to leverage our capabilities, in concert with private and other public entities, to make similar investments,” Lipinski said. The RAMI Act now moves to Senate for consideration.
09.15.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded a $10 million grant for noise mitigation measures around Midway Airport. In all, the federal government will provide sound insulation for 364 homes, improving the quality of life for almost one thousand people. “Midway Airport is a well-run, economic engine in the region, serving millions of passengers a year and nearby communities,” said Rep Lipinski. “While the airport is a boon for area residents, having grown up less than a mile from Midway I know that issues such as airplane noise are a downside. That is why I am happy to help bring more federal funding for soundproofing area homes.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. “Whether it’s finding dollars to rebuild and add safety devices to runways, helping to bring additional service to places such as our nation’s capital, fighting to prevent overnight tower closures, or working for more soundproofing in the surrounding neighborhoods, I will continue to strive to make Midway better for everyone,” stated Lipinski.
08.18.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration has awarded Midway Airport a $3,116,597 grant for pavement, drainage repair, and electrical components to rehabilitate 6,522 feet of runway. “The number of passengers using Midway Airport is at a record high and the airport continues to add service to more destinations,” said Rep. Lipinski. “That is why I am proud to announce this federal grant which will help maintain the infrastructure of one of the main runways at Midway. Proper maintenance is necessary to continue the safe and efficient use of the airport and to keep it a major economic engine for the neighborhood and for the region.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. Earlier this month, Southwest Airlines began nonstop service between Midway International Airport and Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C. Lipinski played an integral role in securing this new service, which began with six daily roundtrips last week and adds three more next month.
08.11.2014	Today, Southwest Airlines began nonstop service between Midway International Airport and Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined with Alderman Mike Zalewski, Alderman Ed Burke, Chicago Aviation Commissioner Rosemarie Andolino, and Southwest employees and customers to celebrate the inaugural flight. The new service starts with six daily roundtrips, with three more scheduled to be added in September. “For many years people have been asking me about service between Midway Airport and Reagan National Airport,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “After all the hard work, it’s great to see the first flight taking off. This service will provide a new option for families, school groups, church groups, business travelers, and anyone else looking for a convenient way to get to our nation’s capital. It will also help to keep Midway Airport a vital economic engine on the Southwest Side of Chicago.” Traffic in and out of Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C., is limited by the number of “slots” available. Congressman Lipinski lobbied the federal government to grant slots to Southwest when American Airlines and US Airways were merging and had to relinquish slots at Reagan National. Southwest had stated that if they were granted slots they would establish service to and from Midway Airport. “I remember when this airport was a ghost town and I would ride my bike around the perimeter of an almost-empty field,” said Lipinski. “Now Midway Airport is booming, and for the first time in the history of the airport there were more than one million passengers boarding planes in one month. This new Southwest Airlines service will only add to the continued success of this airport, this neighborhood, and the region.” Rep. Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee.
08.01.2014	On Friday night, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement after voting against a bill that fails to fairly address the crisis of unaccompanied children coming to our southern border: “We have a crisis at our southern border. Tens of thousands of children from Central America have arrived at the border and are now in a process that could keep them in the United States for years before it is determined who may qualify for asylum. This is not good for the children. The slow process of adjudication encourages more children to make the dangerous journey across Mexico as they are exploited by predators, coyotes, and traffickers. The stories about what is happening to these children during this journey are heartbreaking. “My vote tonight does not mean that I think that our borders should be open to anyone and everyone who wants entry. Nor does it mean that I think the Obama administration should be given a blank check to spend freely on this issue without solving the underlying problems. Instead, it means that I believe we should address the humanitarian crisis at the border the right way: by instituting a speedy but fair process to help those children who are being abused by human traffickers or who face persecution at home, and by making sure those that do not qualify for asylum return quickly to their homes. “My heart goes out to children around the world who face terrible poverty. But the United States cannot give asylum to every child in that situation. It would not be sustainable. But we should care for those who are truly in danger. Unfortunately, instead of working together to find a solution to this problem, Washington has turned this crisis into another partisan battle. And House Republicans produced a bill that goes too far. “This bill will permanently remove basic protections that are in place to help children who are being persecuted for their religion, race, or gender and are truly in need of our help. Under this bill, children will receive less careful screening to find out if they have been abused or are being trafficked, and it also removes the discretion of Border Patrol agents to decide whether a child is simply too young to make the profound decision of being deported or choosing to return home. Moreover, while the crisis involves Central American children covered by the 2008 William Wilberforce law, changes are also made in the law that applies to Mexican children. This means that children unrelated to this crisis will be put at risk by these short-sighted changes in future years. “I do believe we need to change the 2008 law. That is why I support H.R. 5114, the HUMANE Act. The HUMANE Act tackles this issue the way it needs to be addressed. It would have fixed the broken process in place and provided for screenings at multiple levels to make sure that abused and trafficked children would not be lost amidst the thousands of children at the border that need to be returned home. It also addressed the issue of returning home those children who have already been released and placed with sponsors pending an immigration proceeding. It’s a comprehensive solution like this that will help fix this crisis; but unfortunately, the House took a partisan path that will lead to nowhere. "Following approval of the House Republicans’ border bill tonight, they approved a related piece of legislation, H.R. 5272, designed to keep the President from taking executive action on deportations. While I do not support further unilateral action by the President on immigration, this bill was too vague to support. So to signal my position on this issue, I voted present. Ultimately, immigration reform should be done by Congress in way that first strengthens border security, enforces immigration laws on employers, and closes loopholes in immigration law."
07.31.2014	Due to a last minute change in plans by leadership in the House of Representatives, Congressman Dan Lipinski’s town hall meeting scheduled for tonight at Oak Lawn Community High School has been rescheduled. The event has been moved to Wednesday, August 6, at 7:30 p.m., at the same location. Congressional staff will be available starting at 6:30 p.m. The Congressman apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause you and looks forward to hearing your questions and concerns next week. If you are unable to attend the August 6 town hall meeting, his constituent offices are open year round to meet your needs. His expert staff will still be available tonight from 6-7:00 p.m. at Oak Lawn Community High School to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters.
07.30.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “As I taught my students in American Government 101, Article One of the Constitution established Congress as the legislative branch and Article Two established the president as chief executive. I have always believed that Congress is the subject of Article One because the founders intended the legislature, the branch closest to the people, to be the first branch within a system of checks and balances. “But over the history of our nation, presidents have assumed more power at the expense of Congress. Recently, Democrats criticized the plethora of “signing statements” that President Bush attached to legislation that he signed into law; these statements said he would not execute parts of the law. President Bush also engaged in other questionable actions in regard to executing laws. President Obama has continued to do some of this in his administration, particularly with respect to enforcing provisions of the Affordable Care Act. Neither party is exempt. But the bottom line is that this is not good for Congress and, more importantly, is not good for our country. “Today the House passed a resolution to allow Speaker Boehner to initiate lawsuits against President Obama and others in his Administration. While the resolution is broadly written, the main thrust is to challenge the President on his authority to delay the deadline for the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act. I did not vote in favor of the ACA but I have not supported Republican efforts to repeal this law, understanding that these were motivated mostly by politics since it was clear that a repeal bill was not going to become law. But I have been one of the most active members of Congress in working to make changes to the ACA, having authored, cosponsored, and/or voted for more than two dozen bills or amendments that would fix flaws in the law. “I believe the intent of the House Republicans’ lawsuit resolution is similar to the repeal effort on the ACA – it is political, and isn’t likely to have any substantive effect. Therefore I did not support the resolution. It isn’t because I fundamentally disagree with the general concern regarding presidential power. But most scholars agree that the lawsuit won’t be effective, and it will more likely be a political podium rather than a lever for change. The judicial branch makes great effort to stay out of disputes between the legislative and executive branches. Based on case law, the courts are likely to say that the House does not have standing to sue the President or members of his Administration because the House has not suffered from “vote nullification” through these actions of the Executive Branch. Courts will suggest Congress could pass laws in response to these actions, and thus has a means of self-resolution. And with these steep odds against the lawsuit, why spend a few million taxpayer dollars on lawyers? “Congress needs to act to reclaim its rightful authority and to rebalance the powers between the branches of government. Part of the solution is Congress being more active in conducting real oversight, and pursuing and enacting bipartisan approaches to many of the looming challenges we face today. We, the Congress, have the power of the purse, and can affect change in the government by stipulating what taxpayer dollars can and cannot be spent on. But with the highly partisan and marginally effective role Congress has taken of late, we effectively cede to the president control of much of the government. Instead, Congress must once again become protective of itself as an institution vis-à-vis the president, rather than just serving partisan interests when reacting to the actions of the president. This will require members of Congress to prioritize loyalty to the American people and the institution of Congress. This would be the best way to maintain the checks and balances that our nation’s founders so wisely wrote into our Constitution.”
07.30.2014	The House of Representatives has passed a major Veterans Affairs Reform Bill with overwhelming bipartisan support. Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “Today, both parties put their partisan bickering aside to support our veterans who have given so much to our nation. Having spent the last few months hearing and reading vets’ personal stories of the shameful lack of care they have received from the VA, I’m happy to support this bill that provides much-needed reform. “The bill improves access and quality of care for veterans by requiring the VA to offer an authorization to receive non-VA care to any veteran who is enrolled in VA health care and is unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days or resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility. It also requires an independent assessment of VA medical care and establishes a Congressional Commission on Care to evaluate access to care throughout the VA health care system. It provides funding to hire more physicians and other medical staff, modernize existing infrastructure, and build new facilities. Additionally, the bill authorizes the VA to fire or demote senior managers and other employees for poor performance or misconduct, and it improves education benefits for veterans and dependents. “In the coming months and years I will continue to hold the VA accountable and work to build on the positive steps laid out in this bill. And, as always, my door is always open to any veteran who has an issue with the care they receive from the VA or has any other questions or issues.”
07.25.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) on the 70th Anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising, a heroic event during World War II where citizens of Poland fought against Nazi occupation: “Today, I introduced a resolution in honor of the 70th Anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising in Poland. On August 1, 1944, the Polish Home Army, armed mostly with homemade weapons, began to stage one of the bravest and most inspiring resistance movements of World War II against impossible odds. “During the 63 day resistance, approximately 250,000 Poles were killed, wounded, or went missing. In response to the uprising, Hitler sought to make an example out of Warsaw, and ordered a bombing campaign that led to the destruction of 85 percent of this historic city as punishment. “Warsaw is now a beautiful and vibrant city, and Poland is a free and democratic society that still respects and reflects upon the efforts of the freedom fighters of the Warsaw Uprising. This resolution honors the sacrifices of those men and women who refused to capitulate to the Nazi regime, and who deserve our admiration and commemoration as well. The contribution these brave folks made to the Allied War effort will never be forgotten.”
07.25.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Homer Township Fire Protection District has been awarded $262,619 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to purchase 43 protective breathing apparatuses. "All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job," said Rep. Lipinski. "They put their lives on the line for us each and every day, so I want to do all that I can to fully support their important mission and safety. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do their best possible job.” In addition to the Homer Township Fire Protection District, Congressman Lipinski has assisted the Burbank, Chicago, La Grange, Oak Lawn, and Western Springs Fire Departments in receiving grants for equipment and services during this Congressional term. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities.
07.24.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-8) have put out a joint statement on the ongoing nuclear talks with Iran: "Today we introduced a bipartisan resolution (H CON RES 109) reaffirming a steadfast commitment to preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons capability. "Iran has until the interim agreement extended deadline of November 24th, 2014, to finally show its willingness to make full concessions regarding its nuclear program or Congress will enact new sanctions and consider all options in our legislative arsenal. "The United States must send a strong, clear message — both to Iran and to our allies — that we stand ready, willing, and able to prevent Iran’s acquisition of the world's deadliest weapons. We are also prepared to address Iran's long record of human rights abuses and the Iranian Government's longstanding status as the largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world."
07.24.2014	On Monday, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced a plan designed to improve the safety of oil trains as they travel through communities across the country. The proposed rules include steps to remove older rail cars, adjustments to speed limits, and additional precautions for transporting substances that are especially volatile. “As a representative of a district at the center of America’s rail network and a member of the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee of the House Transportation Committee, I have been a strong advocate of keeping our rail communities as safe as possible,” said Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3). “This plan is definitely a step in the right direction. In a year that is on pace to see a record number of oil train incidents, it is imperative for the safety of the American people and the future of this essential industry that the Department of Transportation expedites the implementation of these safety proposals. It is my hope than in the coming months and years more proactive steps will be taken on this critical issue, including more support for my efforts to improve first responder training on these rail cars.” Rep. Lipinski has mailed a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and the Chief Administrator for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), asking them to move forward with the PHMSA’s on-going electronic manifests pilot program, so that first responders will have quick access to accurate information about the hazardous contents of rail cars when an accident occurs. “Given the safety issues surrounding the transportation of crude oil by rail, it is important that the PHMSA work on an accelerated schedule to make sure all options and technologies are deployable for use by first responders,” stated Lipinski. “One issue of concern is providing first responders with access to cargo manifests so that they can determine the proper response strategy. Presently, paper manifests are the only form of documentation that must be carried by hazardous material transporters. While we emphasize the point that paper manifests are a critical item for first responders in dead zones and that under no uncertain terms should they be phased out or eliminated, we believe that electronic manifests should be implemented as a supplemental information resource for first responders. This technology can allow them to determine the contents of a tank car quickly and without having to board a locomotive to search for a paper manifest that may have been compromised.” Congressman Lipinski is the senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
07.21.2014	In the coming weeks, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting a Town Hall Meeting in Oak Lawn, Senior Fairs in Chicago and Lockport, and a Veterans Fair in Bridgeview. At the Town Hall Meeting, Third District residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and voice their opinions on federal issues. Staff from the Congressman’s office will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. The Senior Fairs will give area residents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from the Congressman’s expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. During the Veterans Fair, Rep. Lipinski’s staff will be joined by other organizations to assist veterans with questions regarding military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, and other VA related issues. "I want to personally extend an invitation to the residents of the Third Congressional District to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting, Senior Fairs and Veterans Fair,” said Rep. Lipinski. “As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you. In addition, these events will be great opportunities for you to get assistance with federal issues and learn about the wide array of constituent services my office provides. I especially look forward to meeting with the area men and woman that have bravely served our nation. It is my privilege to serve you.” The dates, times, and locations for the upcoming events are as follows: Town Hall Meeting Thursday, July 31 7:00 – 9:00 p.m. Oak Lawn Community High School Gymnasium 9400 Southwest Hwy Oak Lawn, IL 60453 Congressional staff will be available starting at 6:00 p.m. for assistance with federal agencies. Senior Fairs Monday, July 28 10:00 a.m. – noon Nativity of Our Lord Catholic Church 653 West 37th Street Chicago, IL 60609 Monday, August 4 10:00 a.m. – noon John Olson American Legion Post #18 15052 Archer Avenue Lockport, IL 60441 Veterans Fair Friday, August 1 10:00 a.m. – noon John C. Oremus Community Center 7902 South Oketo Avenue Bridgeview, IL 60455 For more information, call 312-886-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
07.16.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) International Science and Technology Cooperation Act of 2014 – H.R. 5029 – was passed by the House of Representatives this week 346-41. The bill would improve U.S. diplomatic efforts in cooperating on scientific research, which would help address key challenges facing our nation, including energy production, public health, national security, and job creation. The legislation specifically directs the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) at the White House to maintain a body that would identify and coordinate the U.S. interagency strategy for international science and technology cooperation. In addition, it requires the NSTC to report back to Congress on their activities to ensure appropriate oversight by the legislative branch. “By collaborating with international partners on scientific issues, we strengthen the U.S. scientific enterprise and additionally promote the free exchange of ideas in other nations,” Rep. Lipinski said. “While many federal agencies are engaged with international partners on science and technology projects, there is a need to coordinate these projects across the federal government and to identify opportunities for additional beneficial collaborations. Coordination on international scientific research ensures that tax dollars are being used efficiently and that U.S. priorities are being consistently addressed when working with our international partners on science and technology issues.” Rep. Lipinski is the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. The bill now moves on to the Senate.
07.15.2014	Today, the House of Representatives has passed H.R. 5021, a bill to move about $10 billion into the Highway Trust Fund to prevent a cutback in road construction and transit funding. If additional money is not transferred to the fund, federal spending on road construction will start being slashed on August 1. The bill passed today will extend federal highway and transit funding to the spring. Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “I’m pleased that we seem to be resolving the funding shortfall without unnecessary politics and posturing. We should not be cutting construction jobs and stopping projects we know are needed to fix our roads and transit. That being said, I’m disappointed that we have kicked the can down the road into next year on a more permanent solution to this critical issue. We should roll up our sleeves and get to work on a long-term bill that provides the level of funding we know our area and our nation need for road construction and transit, and we should be doing this before the end of the year. We need to get serious about long-term funding solutions instead of searching the couches for change every few months or years.”
07.15.2014	Congressman Lipinski (IL-3) presents Oak Lawn officials with a check to purchase ambulance equipment Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is announcing that the Oak Lawn Fire Department has been awarded $206,428 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The grant will be used to purchase four CPR Compression Machines and four Power Assist Stretchers for their ambulances. "Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's first responders," said Rep. Lipinski. "This grant will allow the Oak Lawn Fire Department to purchase much needed new equipment. In doing so, they will be able to continue to build upon their already impressive record of service while improving the safety and quality of life of area residents." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. During this Congressional term, Lipinski has assisted the Burbank, Chicago, La Grange, and Western Springs Fire Departments in receiving grants for equipment and services.
07.14.2014	Today the House of Representatives passed Congressman Dan Lipinski’s (IL-3) bill, H.R. 3085, renaming Chicago’s Mount Greenwood post office as the Captain Herbert Johnson Memorial Post Office Building. Captain Herbert “Herbie” Johnson died on November 2, 2012, at the age of 54, while battling flames in the attic of a two-story home in Chicago’s Englewood neighborhood. “Capt. Johnson heroically served in the Chicago Fire Department for over 32 years,” Rep. Lipinski said. “He learned public service from his family. Three of his brothers are Chicago police officers, a sister is a retired Chicago police officer, and another brother is a Chicago firefighter, so his family knows the dangers of being a first responder. Capt. Johnson served in almost every Chicago neighborhood as a firefighter, but his heart belonged to the Southwest Side.” Over the years, Capt. Johnson taught over one thousand recruits as an instructor at the Robert J. Quinn Fire Academy. He is fondly remembered by those he taught. After the horrible terrorist attacks on 9-11, Herbie Johnson went to New York City to volunteer with the rescue efforts. In 2007, he was awarded the state’s highest honor for firefighters, the Illinois Medal of Honor, for rescuing several children from a burning apartment building. He is survived by his wife of 28 years, Susan, two sons, Thomas and Michael, and daughter, Laurie. He also left behind so many others in Mount Greenwood and the surrounding area who knew him not only as a courageous and dedicated public servant, but also as an outgoing and caring neighbor and friend. During a speech on the House floor, Congressman Lipinski said that the outpouring of grief after Herbie’s death demonstrated the impact he had on so many people. “Naming a postal facility honoring Fire Capt. Johnson is just a small tribute of our appreciation not only for him, but all first responders who bravely put their lives on the line every day for people they don’t even know,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “This post office naming will ensure that Capt. Herbie Johnson, his family, and the sacrifices of all first responders will always be remembered and appreciated, and will hopefully serve as a powerful source of inspiration in the community.” The post office building is located at 3349 West 111th Street in Chicago. H.R. 3085 now moves on to the Senate.
06.30.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “I am pleased that in the Hobby Lobby case the Supreme Court has protected religious liberty. The bipartisan Religious Freedom Restoration Act - signed into law by President Bill Clinton twenty years ago - reaffirmed one of the core principles on which our nation was founded by prohibiting the government from burdening the free exercise of religion without a compelling state interest. The court ruled that in this case the HHS mandate violates this law. “Protecting religious liberty should not be viewed as a partisan issue. It is a fundamental right spelled out in the First Amendment of the Constitution. As I taught my American government students, the ‘free exercise clause’ is not just freedom to worship, but freedom to exercise religious beliefs. Today’s ruling upholds one of the core principles that makes the United States of America a model for freedom for the world.”
06.25.2014	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski welcomed to Washington the Third Congressional District’s winner of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. Recent Oak Lawn Community High School graduate Brian Pfister had his artwork unveiled at the U.S. Capitol, where it will be on display for the next year alongside the winning pieces from the other congressional districts in the country. The winning artwork is a digital photograph entitled “Salute,” which was taken by Brian at an Air Force ceremony involving his brother. “Brian’s artwork is a striking black and white photo with precise lines demonstrating military order,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Every time I walk by this image I am reminded of the reason we are here; the service and sacrifice of our brave men and women in the military. Beyond Brian’s work, I was genuinely impressed with all the artwork that was entered into this year’s competition, and I look forward to seeing what our district’s young artists will come up with for next year.” Congressman Lipinski has also announced the runners-up in the Congressional Art Competition. They are: Megan Pripusich, of Oak Lawn Community High School, who will have her artwork displayed for one year in the congressman’s D.C. office; Melissa Rangel, of Lane Tech, who will have her art displayed in the congressman’s Chicago district office; Kailyn Slater, of Carl Sandburg High School, who will have her piece displayed in the Orland Park district office; Emma Hirt of Lyons Township High School, who will have her art displayed in the Oak Lawn district office; and Larissa Barnat, of Reavis High School, who will have her artwork displayed in the Lockport district office. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents.
06.20.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has helped bring two million dollars to Argonne National Laboratory to develop hybrid fuel cell technology that will both generate electricity and produce liquid fuel. This technology can produce electricity with zero emissions and help America reach energy independence. “Argonne National Lab continues to be a world leader in the growing field of alternative energy research and development,” said Rep. Lipinski, a former educator with a bachelor’s and master’s degree in engineering, and a leading member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “This cutting edge work is another step towards American energy independence and a catalyst for economic growth and job creation. I continue to push for more investment in Argonne’s research and development, which will not only lead to new technologies for our nation but also lead to new companies and new jobs in the area around the lab.” The project is being funded through the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy’s (ARPA-E) newest program, “Reliable Electricity Based on Electrochemical Systems” (REBELS). REBELS is focused on improving grid stability, balancing intermittent renewable technologies, and reducing CO2 emissions using electrochemical distributed power generation systems. The dual mode capability of Argonne National Laboratory’s hybrid fuel cell project is enabled by a device that removes protons from the reaction site, which allows the cell to operate at lower temperatures. In addition to conventional fuel cell capabilities, Argonne’s cell could use natural gas to produce ethylene for conversion into liquid fuel or high-value chemicals. Congressman Lipinski has long been a supporter of fuel cell technologies having been responsible for creating the H-Prize which is a U.S. Department of Energy prize competition for hydrogen fuel cell technologies. In addition, Rep. Lipinski has consistently supported funding to help develop fuel cell technologies. ARPA-E is an Agency within the U.S. Department of Energy that advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private-sector investment. ARPA-E awardees are unique because they are developing entirely new ways to generate, store, and use energy. Since fighting for its inclusion in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, Congressman Lipinski has never stopped championing the importance of this organization. Earlier this year, he was honored to speak at an ARPA-E Innovation Summit about ways that the government can be more helpful to entrepreneurs as they develop and perfect the job-creating innovations of tomorrow.
06.19.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is praising a new collaboration between the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) that will use the best entrepreneurial minds from Silicon Valley and venture capitalists to teach entrepreneurship to NIH researchers. This will help turn lab research into medical innovations that save lives and save money while leading to economic growth, job creation, and a greater return on taxpayers’ investment in scientific research. As the top Democrat on the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Rep. Lipinski has played an important role in bringing these organizations together and using his leadership position to encourage program participation. Congressman Lipinski was an early supporter of the I-Corps program and was responsible for including language in two NSF authorization bills before the House Science Committee that specifically authorized the activities of I-Corps. In addition, Rep. Lipinski wrote a letter last April to NIH Director Francis Collins asking him to direct NIH to participate in the I-Corps program. “Working with the I-Corps program just makes sense,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The expense is modest, especially compared to its potential to save lives and money while putting people to work. With the struggle for federal research dollars getting more competitive with each passing year, I-Corps increases the likelihood that tax dollars invested in research lead to medical advances.” I-Corps teaches the “Lean LaunchPad” method for starting a business. This method focuses on talking to as many potential customers as possible, pivoting quickly in response to the resulting insights, building low-cost prototypes to get customer feedback, and constantly adapting. Four NIH institutes will participate in the initial phase of this collaborative effort: the National Cancer Institute (NCI), the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, and the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences.
06.16.2014	On Flag Day, June 14, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined 11th Ward Alderman Jim Balcer, other veterans, and representatives from the Chicago Fire Department and the Chicago Police Department for the largest flag ceremony in the nation. During the program in the Union Stockyards, 7,000 tattered and worn American flags were properly disposed of. “This enduring symbol of freedom is so much more than a piece of cloth,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Although burning a flag is most commonly thought of as a form of protest, it is the only way to properly retire a worn flag. I thank Alderman Balcer and veterans groups across the district for providing area government organizations, businesses, and residents with a way to keep this symbol that many men and women have paid the ultimate price for from ending up in a landfill.” Congressman Lipinski’s offices in Orland Park, Oak Lawn, Chicago, and Lockport will accept worn American flags for proper disposal. For more information, call 312-886-0481. If you’re looking for a replacement, his Washington, D.C. office can help constituents obtain an American flag that's been flown over the U.S. Capitol. Contact the office toll-free at 866-822-5701 to find out more. If possible, his office can accommodate requests for flags that are flown at a specific date or time. If you’re a veteran, he will provide you with a flag for free.
06.01.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and U.S. Senator Mark Kirk came together Sunday afternoon to give veterans with experience in the VA healthcare system an opportunity to share their concerns. For over two hours at VFW Post 2378 in Berwyn, the legislators listened as heroic veterans of all ages, current and former VA employees, and others shared their personal stories of frustration with government bureaucracy and the general level of care they have received from the VA. Since the troubling reports started surfacing about secret waiting lists several weeks ago, both Lipinski and Kirk have led the charge on this issue. “The mistreatment of veterans at the VA has been shameful,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Last week I regretfully called for the resignation of Secretary Shinseki. He is an American hero, but considering what had occurred under his watch, a change in leadership was necessary. But General Shinseki’s resignation is not the end; it is only the first step in cleaning up the VA and holding individuals accountable. A comprehensive review and reform of the entire VA operation must begin immediately and not end until the system is fixed. This listening session with Sen. Kirk is part of our efforts to review problems occurring locally so we can help make the needed changes. The feedback of veterans is essential, and I encourage them to continue to step forward with their stories and recommendations. We owe it to all of our veterans to fix the VA so that they get the care they deserve for protecting our freedoms.” Since many area residents were unable to attend Sunday's program, Lipinski encourages them to reach out to his office to share their experiences working with the VA. He has a staff member dedicated to answering the questions of veterans in the district.
05.30.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “It is in our national interest for Congress to act on immigration reform in a comprehensive manner. If Congress fails to act, President Obama is nearly certain to take further executive action on the suspension of deportations. What this means is that we will not have a comprehensive solution that includes a guarantee of border security and internal enforcement – two necessary pieces of comprehensive reform. Taking executive action on deportations will not solve the problem of illegal immigration and will allow the continued illegal flow of immigrants into the U.S. In 1986, Congress passed and President Reagan signed a law which granted amnesty to millions with the promise of border security and internal enforcement; a promise that was never fulfilled, leading to the situation we now face. We cannot go down that failed path again of a non-comprehensive solution. “In order to push the House to address immigration reform in a comprehensive manner, today I signed the discharge petition for H.R. 15, the House version of the immigration bill the Senate passed last year. While I have strong reservations about this bill, Speaker Boehner has already stated that the House will not vote on H.R. 15, so the threat of a successful discharge petition could force House leaders to bring alternative immigration reform legislation to the floor. “Comprehensive immigration reform must implement secure borders, a tracking system for visa holders (who account for approximately 40% of unlawful residents), and an enforcement of immigration law on employers. For too long America has not been serious about these issues. This is evident in the fact that an estimated 10 to 12 million people are unlawfully residing in the United States. Congress must act to change this status quo. “In doing this reform we have to set up the system by which - after the security facets have been implemented - we will address those living in this country unlawfully. Clearly there is a big difference between unlawful immigrants who have committed serious crimes (who must serve their punishments and then be deported) and those who are serving bravely in our armed forces. I believe most people who immigrate to America do it so that they have an opportunity to work hard and make a better life for themselves and for their family. They are not freeloaders looking for a handout, they want to live the American Dream. But this does not mean that everyone who is able to enter our borders should be able to stay. After all, that would suggest that our borders should be open to anyone and everyone in the world who declares a good intention when crossing our borders. But we must also accept that once we implement the necessary security measures, it is not possible to remove all unlawful immigrants from our country and it is not in the best interest of our nation to try to do so. “America is a nation of immigrants. Congress should debate and develop comprehensive immigration reform legislation that continues to allow immigrants to contribute to and become a part of our nation, while also stopping illegal immigration, protecting American workers, growing the economy, and not driving up the national debt, not just in the near term but in the long term.”
05.30.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “Following the release of the interim report from the Inspector General’s independent review of the growing VA scandal, it is becoming painfully clear that the problems extend well beyond the confines of one facility in Phoenix, Arizona. VA Secretary Shinseki is a hero, who has served our country honorably for decades, but considering what has occurred under his watch, we owe it to the American people, especially our brave veterans, to begin a comprehensive review and reform of the entire VA operation with a change in leadership. "While I do not believe that Shinseki was directly involved in the creation of any of the waiting lists or the subsequent obstruction of information, this problem is the result of a failure in the VA to match up their directives with available resources. If the agency is going to establish a 14 day maximum wait for veterans to see a doctor, then they must assure that there are the doctors, nurses, medical rooms, etc. necessary to see that volume of patients. That is the responsibility of the highest levels of management, and in this case, that is Secretary Shinseki. His dismissal would not be the solution to this widespread systematic failure, but I believe it is a necessary step towards restoring the American people’s faith in the VA. "The President should immediately nominate a capable individual to take the Secretary’s position, in order to assure strong top-level leadership at the VA, and the Administration and Congress need to do a thorough review not only of the management and care failures, but to ensure that we are effectively funding and resourcing the VA to handle the increased medical care demand they face. "Locally, I will continue to direct my attention to the service our family, friends, and neighbors receive at the Hines VA facility. And I call on all veterans to not be silent regarding problems they have encountered receiving care at Hines or any other VA health care center.”
05.27.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is making it a top priority to secure funding for a railroad grade separation at 65th Street and Harlem Avenue. The project – either an underpass or overpass that would eliminate train blockage of 65th Street – would have a significant positive impact on the surrounding area, specifically the southwest side of Chicago, Bedford Park, and Summit. With the possibility this year of a new federal road construction bill and a state capital construction bill, there are new opportunities to move the project forward. “Back in 2003, the CREATE program was announced with great fanfare at a press conference at 63rd and Harlem,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This program will invest billions to increase the efficiency of our region's passenger and freight rail, and enhance the quality of life for residents. A significant part of this quality of life enhancement is the construction of two dozen grade separations. These are underpasses or overpasses that move roads over or under rail lines. One of these has been slated for 63rd and Harlem. But while CREATE has moved forward over the years, starting with $100 million that I was able to secure for it, progress on the grade separations has lagged, largely because of the cost.” While 63rd Street was the location originally chosen for the grade separation, Congressman Lipinski now believes if the engineering is feasible, 65th Street would be a better choice. 65th is a four lane road on a largely commercial street and 63rd is a two lane road on a largely residential street. Hundreds of trucks every day travel to and from businesses in the Clearing Industrial District and a grade separation on 63rd would bring many of those trucks up residential side streets to 63rd. Over the years, Lipinski has spoken with many local residents, elected officials, businesses, and employees about this project and what it would mean for the area. The benefits would include fewer delays getting to work, school, church, or shopping. Also, less gas wasted waiting for a train to pass, increased safety, economic development, and the potential for more jobs in the area. “There is new hope for getting this project going this year,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “Both the federal government and the state of Illinois may be passing new bills that will help ease the congestion on our roads. The most recent federal bill to fund highway and transit projects expires at the end of September. I am Illinois' most senior member on the House Transportation Committee and we will soon be working on a new bill. I’ll be pushing to pass a robust, long-term bill that will provide federal support for projects that would alleviate problems like the one many of us face every day at Harlem Avenue.” In addition, Lipinski is hopeful that Illinois will pass a new capital bill that would provide funding for all types of construction projects including road construction. The last capital bill passed in Springfield is winding down and a new one may be done this year. He has met with Governor Quinn to tell him about the need for the Clearing grade separation, and he has worked with all the local state legislators to build support for this project. The estimated cost of the entire grade separation project is about $95 million dollars.
05.22.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has approved the Herbie Johnson Post Office bill, HR 3085. The bill would rename the post office in Chicago’s Mount Greenwood community after longtime Chicago Fire Captain Herbert “Herbie” Johnson. The 54-year-old died two years ago while fighting a house fire on the city’s South Side. “Captain Johnson heroically served area residents for over 32 years, paying the ultimate price protecting the neighborhoods he loved,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This bill not only honors him, but all first responders who bravely put their lives on the line every day for people they don’t even know. This bill insures that Johnson, his family and the sacrifices of all first responders will not be forgotten by future generations.” Over the years, Johnson taught over one thousand recruits as an instructor at the Robert J. Quinn Fire Academy. After the terrorist attacks on 9-11, he volunteered with the rescue efforts in New York City. In 2007, he received the state’s highest award for firefighters, the Illinois Medal of Honor, for rescuing several children from a burning apartment. Congressman Lipinski’s bill would designate the Mount Greenwood Post Office, at 3349 West 111th Street in Chicago, the “Captain Herbert Johnson Memorial Post Office Building.”
05.21.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “Veterans deserve better than the health care and treatment mismanagement that has recently been reported. I expect the VA and the President to quickly get to the bottom of this, resolve the problems impeding veterans from quality and responsive health care, and to make sure those that failed these brave men and women are held accountable. This must include reviews at facilities like Hines, as well as a national assessment of our entire VA health care system. Letting one VA executive resign who was already slated to retire only serves to reduce the trust Americans have in the accountability of their government. Much more must be done."
05.20.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is applauding a rare bipartisan victory in Washington as the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), which funds maintenance and modernization of our nation’s inland waterways and ports, was passed today in the House of Representatives. A long time in the making, the bill addresses many issues that Lipinski has been working on, including language he added barring the Army Corps from dumping dredged materials from the Cal-Sag Channel at the Lucas-Berg Confined Placement Facility in Worth. “Since I was first elected to Congress, one of my top local priorities has been to remove Lucas-Berg as the Army Corps’ designated site for dumping dredged materials from the Cal-Sag,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am very happy that I was able to work with my colleagues to get this language into the WRRDA that will soon become law. This is very good news for the Village of Worth and local residents. I know what a great gem the Lucas Berg Nature Preserve is to so many people. I will continue to work with the Army Corps to find a place for the dredged materials that is not so close to homes, businesses, and parks.” Although not as obvious as roads and rails, America’s inland waterways are essential to moving freight and commodities, and therefore are critical to growing our economy. Locally, the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal and the Cal-Sag Channel are important economic engines in southwest Cook and Will Counties. This bill will help make much-needed improvements on these waterways. Recently Congressman Lipinski announced that the Army Corps is going to spend nearly $12 million on the Lockport Lock in order to protect the community from possible flooding and to keep the lock functioning for commerce. This bill will facilitate more projects such as this. The WRRDA bill also includes language that requires the use of American-made iron and steel when work is being done on locks, dams, and ports. The strengthening of Buy-American laws continues to be a top priority for Lipinski. In addition, the bill addresses the Asian carp situation by improving the multi-agency collaboration necessary for controlling the spread of the invasive species that threatens our Great Lakes. “This bill invests in one of our greatest resources, our vast waterways transportation network,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It brings critical parts of this network into the 21st century, which will lead to economic growth and middle class jobs for the Third Congressional District and the nation.” The bill also approves several flood-prevention projects that benefit the entire nation, and authorizes the deepening of U.S. ports, opening up more transportation and commerce opportunities for larger ships.
05.16.2014	Statement from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3): “I am outraged by reports of secret waiting lists at Hines VA. Information about these kinds of lists being used at Hines came out of an ongoing investigation of a VA facility in Phoenix, AZ. The director of that facility, a former Hines executive, has since been placed on leave. It is my hope that this week’s visit to Hines by federal auditors is the beginning of a thorough investigation of an operation that so many residents in my district rely on. No one should ever be treated this way, especially our brave veterans that have sacrificed so much for our nation. Trust must be restored.”
05.16.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that Brian Pfister, a senior at Oak Lawn Community High School, is the Third Congressional District’s winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Pfister’s digital photograph, entitled “Salute,” shows an image from an Air Force Ceremony involving his brother. The photograph will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year alongside the winning pieces from congressional districts across the country. He will also receive two roundtrip tickets for the exhibition opening this summer in Washington, D.C. “We are fortunate to have so many talented artists in the district with such diverse skill sets,” said Rep. Lipinski. “While I was impressed by all the artwork that my office received, Brian’s moving photograph really brings out that patriotic feeling that many of us share when we think about the brave men and women putting their lives on hold, and often in harm’s way, in order to serve this great nation. I congratulate Brian on this honor and thank all the young men and women who participated in this year’s competition for the thought and care they put into their art. I would also like to thank the family members, friends, teachers and others that continue to encourage our young people in a subject area that is unfortunately receiving less support and attention in many of our country’s schools. I urge every student that is going to be in high school next year to sharpen their pencils, get their brushes out, and make sure their camera batteries are charged for next year’s competition.” Rep. Lipinski presented Pfister with a certificate at a special ceremony attended by his family, teachers, school officials, and friends at Oak Lawn Community High School. The Congressman also gave him an American flag that had been flown over the U.S. Capitol in Washington. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents.
05.13.2014	Congressman Lipinski (IL-3) is introducing legislation to rename the U.S. Department of Transportation headquarters after former Minnesota Congressman Jim Oberstar. A former chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Oberstar served for 36 years as a member of the committee and for 12 years as a staff member. Oberstar passed away on May 3rd at the age of 79. “The man I called ‘Mr. Transportation’ served the people of Minnesota for over 36 years, becoming the state's longest-serving member of Congress,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Jim’s thoughtful and thorough approach to crafting legislation had a tremendous impact on transportation across the country. I witnessed firsthand how his knowledge and passion helped people understand how important transportation is to our economy and our future. He was a mentor not just for me but for many, many members over his long career in the House.” Rep. Oberstar was elected to Congress in 1974. Rep. Lipinski first introduced legislation to rename USDOT headquarters after Oberstar was narrowly defeated in the 2010 midterm elections. “His accomplishments were many,” stated Lipinski. “He ensured the passage of important airline, highway, and rail safety legislation. He was also vital to the adoption of intermodalism, the seamless integration of air, sea, rail, and road transportation that many Americans take for granted. But Jim may have been most proud of the Safe Routes to Schools program. It would only be right that the man synonymous with transportation have his name forever attached to this building.” Congressman Lipinski says Oberstar dedicated his life to the advancement of transportation in America and he excelled at his craft, possessing leadership, experience, and knowledge that was second to none.
04.25.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting Senior Fairs throughout the month of May to give area residents an opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from his expert staff, as well as local organizations, agencies and businesses that provide services to seniors. "Every day my team works to help district residents, including seniors, cut through bureaucratic red tape to get the services they need," said Rep. Lipinski. "During my time in office, we have helped countless retirees get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, veterans' benefits, the Postal Service, and other federal issues. Seniors have worked hard and sacrificed much for our nation, so it is my hope that the upcoming fairs will make life a little easier for them. I will continue to work to make sure my constituents don’t lose access to their doctor through further cuts to Medicare, and I’ll fight to protect Social Security for today’s seniors and strengthen it for future retirees. I am committed to being a leader who brings people together to address important issues in a bipartisan manner.” The dates, times and locations for the Senior Fairs are as follows: Tuesday, May 6 10 a.m. - noon European Chalet Banquets 5445 S. Harlem Ave Chicago, IL 60638 Monday, May 12 10 a.m. - noon Giovan’s Restaurant 1804 N. Larkin Ave Crest Hill, IL 60403 Monday, May 19 10 a.m. - noon Moraine Valley Community College 9000 W. College Pkwy Palos Hills, IL 60465 For more information, call 312-886-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
04.21.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will soon be moving forward with a major rehabilitation project at the Lockport Lock and Dam. Nearly 12 million dollars will be used to construct a replacement forebay wall that holds water used in the functioning of the lock. The procedure will reinforce and modernize existing infrastructure, helping to prevent a catastrophic failure of the wall and thus better protect the local community from flooding. “This project is an important step in rebuilding our aging water transportation system,” said Rep. Lipinski. “It will not only protect the local Lockport community, but also ensure the continued positive economic impact of a properly functioning waterway system. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, roughly $81 billion in goods are shipped through Illinois waterways and ports, helping to support 48,195 jobs.” The project manager has confirmed that navigation through the area will not be impacted with this upcoming construction. The cost to complete this critical project is due to the scope of work and the risks associated with this particular type of work. Congressman Lipinski is the state’s most senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Lockport Lock and Dam is 110 feet wide by 600 feet long. It is 291 miles above the confluence of the Illinois River with the Mississippi river at Grafton, Illinois. The complex is two miles southwest of the city of Lockport, Illinois. The lock opened in 1933. It was one of five designed and partially constructed by the state of Illinois over a period from 1923 to 1930. The complex was about 97 percent complete when construction was turned over to the federal government due to state financial difficulties.
04.21.2014	Recently, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) reviewed operations at the Hanson Quarry in McCook. The quarry resumed normal operations, including blasting activities, last month. It voluntarily suspended blasting activities following a seismic event that occurred after a routine quarry blast on November 4th of last year. “After the incident - which I felt at my home - I was involved in bringing Northwestern University and the US Geological Survey out to the quarry to investigate what had happened and what is happening at and around the operation,” said Rep. Lipinski. “My top concern has been and always will be the safety of the residents of the district, and I will continue to monitor the situation.” Lipinski stated that while he will make sure that federal authorities keep watch over this quarry and others in regard to following federal laws, the State of Illinois Department of Natural Resources holds the authority to determine whether the quarry has a permit to continue operating.
04.10.2014	A great opportunity is available for high school students looking to showcase their artistic talents for a national audience. Right now, Congressman Dan Lipinski is accepting submissions from all high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois for the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive two roundtrip tickets to travel to our nation’s capitol in June for the exhibition opening. Runners-up will have their artwork prominently displayed in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year. All submissions must include the Student Information and Release Form, which can be found here. Submission Guidelines: · All artwork must be two-dimensional · Each piece can be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4” including the frame · If the winning piece is not framed, the artist will be required to frame the artwork within the sizing guidelines · Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. · Each entry must be completely original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws · Winning artwork will be on display in Washington for one year and will not be available to be returned to the winner during that period · Accepted media for artwork are as follows: o Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. o Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, ink, markers o Collage o Prints: lithographs, silk screen, block prints o Mixed Media: use of more than two media such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. o Computer-Generated Art o Photography More information about the submission guidelines can be found here. All entries must be received at the Congressman’s District offices in Chicago (6245 S. Archer Ave.), Oak Lawn (5309 W. 95 Street), Lockport (222 East 9th Street), or Orland Park (14700 S. Ravinia Ave.) by April 23, 2014. If you have any questions, please contact the Congressman’s Chicago office at (312) 886-0481. The winning artist will be notified in early May and the exhibition opening will be in June in Washington, D.C.
04.03.2014	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted in favor of H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act. This bipartisan legislation adjusts the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) definition of full-time employment from 30 hours to the traditional 40-hour work week, protecting part-time workers from losing wages and work schedule flexibility as employers adjust to the ACA. “Ask most Americans and they will tell you that a full-time workweek is 40 hours, not 30 as defined in the ACA,” said Rep. Lipinski. “If left unchanged, an unintended consequence of the ACA would be a reduction in take-home-pay for millions of hard-working Americans. Many families would suddenly be forced to make financial decisions they shouldn’t ever have to make, or find another part time job to try and make up the difference.” Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), employers with more than 50 full-time equivalent workers must offer health insurance to their employees or face a penalty. The current law defines full-time status as 30 hours of work per week, significantly below the traditional definition of 40 hours that employers and workers have been accustomed to for decades. As a result of the ACA, hourly or part-time employees working between 30 and 40 hours per week could see – and some already have seen – their hours reduced as companies face either unaffordable new costs or substantial ACA-related penalties. The Administration has already acknowledged problems in implementing the employer mandate rules and has instituted multiple delays and substantial administrative changes to the law. In July 2013, the rules were first delayed for a year for all employers. In February of this year the rules were delayed again for employers with 50-99 workers and significantly loosened for employers with 100 or more workers. Representatives of the retail, restaurant, and education sectors from across the country have testified that the 30 hour definition of full time in the ACA will result in as many as 2.6 million part-time workers having their hours cut resulting in lost wages. In addition to lost wages, many workers could lose the scheduling flexibility currently available through many part-time jobs. In some hourly positions, workers are currently able to swap shifts and change their hours from week to week in order to accommodate family needs or emergencies. But with a 30-hour definition of full-time work, employers may no longer permit this flexibility, as workers would cycle in and out of full-time status from week to week. A recent report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office confirms that the shift from a 30-hour to a standard 40-hour week in the ACA could lead to some people seeing an increase in their take-home-pay. Last year, Lipinski introduced the Forty Hours is Full Time Act to change the ACA's definition of full time work. Earlier this year, he and Rep. Todd Young of Indiana consolidated their efforts, with Lipinski joining Young’s legislation, the Save American Workers Act, as a co-sponsor.
03.25.2014	In a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) honored the more than three million Americans who served in the Vietnam War. This weekend, Lipinski will join over 50 veterans at Lemont VFW Post 5819 to observe Vietnam Veterans Day, and pay tribute to these brave Americans who were called to serve during one of our nation’s longest and most difficult conflicts. “Lasting more than a decade, Vietnam defined a generation,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Over 58,000 Americans were killed, and those who did return home were not treated as the American heroes they are. In recent years, I’m grateful that most Americans have been able to put aside their opinions about specific military missions and have an unwavering commitment to our courageous men and women operating in dangerous places around the world.” Lipinski stated that Vietnam Veterans Day is meant to reaffirm our respect and gratitude for those that served our nation in that war and show a generation of soldiers our immense gratitude. He asked colleagues to join him in participating in events not just this weekend, but every day, because that is what our Vietnam veterans, and all our veterans, deserve. “Even 40 years later, it is important to veterans, especially Vietnam veterans, to know that there are people in Washington such as Congressman Lipinski that still care about them and are looking out for their best interests,” said Lemont VFW Post 5819 Commander Bill Ward . “During his years in office, he has shown a true commitment to veterans’ rights, from MIA/POW issues, to the VA backlog, to having a staff member dedicated to specific veterans-related questions and concerns.” Lipinski will be the keynote speaker at this Saturday’s Vietnam Veterans Day Ceremony. The event begins at 1PM at Lemont VFW Post 5819, located at 15780 New Avenue. All Vietnam Veterans are welcome to attend and you do not need to be a VFW Member.
03.24.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that local residents will soon be able to fly non-stop between Chicago Midway Airport and Washington Reagan National Airport. After having lobbied for this service and helping Southwest gain new slots at Reagan, Lipinski says that for the first time ever the airline will begin flying six daily roundtrips on August 10, 2014. Three more daily roundtrips will be added on September 30, 2014. Lipinski led the effort to grant Southwest Airlines additional slots at Reagan National Airport after the American Airlines and U.S. Airways merger and the Department of Justice announced the awarding of these slots to Southwest in January. “For a number of years I have worked to give local residents the convenient option of flying from Midway to Reagan National Airport, so I am very pleased that Southwest has made this announcement,” said Lipinski. “Families, school groups, business travelers, and anyone else looking for a convenient way to get to our nation’s capital should be very pleased. And the addition of these flights will help to keep Midway Airport a vital economic engine on the Southwest Side of Chicago.” Rep. Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee.
03.20.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) honored U.S. Olympian Kendall Coyne this afternoon at a special ceremony in her hometown of Palos Heights. A forward for the U.S. Women’s Hockey Team, Coyne won a silver medal at the Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. “I am pleased that an individual such as Kendall was able to represent the Third Congressional District, the state of Illinois, and the nation during the most recent Olympic Games,” stated Rep. Lipinski. “She showed young girls and boys across the world what it means to work hard as a leader and a member of a team. I know her future will continue to be full of success, both on and off the ice.” During the Olympics, Kendall was the leading scorer for Team USA, with 6 points on 2 goals and 4 assists. At the ceremony, Lipinski presented Coyne with a copy of the statement he made honoring her in the United States House of Representatives.
03.20.2014	This morning, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined ten student volunteers from schools in Lemont and Joliet at the Academy for Global Citizenship in Chicago as they helped teach 25 6th graders about science. Lipinski, a senior member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and co-chair of the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Education Caucus, had the pleasure of seeing firsthand some of the best and brightest 8th -10th grade students who are participating in the Project Infinite Green program lead grade school children through the hands-on learning experience of building a personal solar powered charging station. “I have supported Project Infinite Green from its first days and am always impressed with the hard work of these students who are guided by numerous mentors volunteering their time to teach,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is great to see these students who have been helped through mentorship play a similar role for younger students, passing on their knowledge and love for science. About 35 years ago as an 8th grader I did the same thing, teaching 3rd graders about science. This helped drive my interest in science and my desire to be a teacher. As a former educator with an engineering degree, the eagerness of these older students to spark a passion for scientific exploration in others is to be commended, and will hopefully pay dividends for both them and their younger students.” Rep. Lipinski was joined at the event by Congressman Bill Foster, the Ambassador and Consulate General to Morocco, and leaders from the InSPIRE organization, Dr. Siva Sivananthan and Raja Krishnamoorthi. Project Infinite Green is an after school program that encourages STEM education by taking local children on a detailed study of US energy sources. Students learn from mentors from the Department of Energy, Argonne National Laboratories, Exelon, Exxon/Mobil, and many others. Students dedicate at least three hours weekly to their coursework. They learn about both traditional and renewable energy sources, energy policy, climate change, environmental enforcement, and business plan development. At the end of the program, students are charged with creating a business plan that draws upon all that they have learned. Some of the students have decided that peer-to-peer energy teaching, such as the program that occurred today, will be part of their 2013-14 business plans.
03.10.2014	Last week, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) held his annual All-American Boy and Girl Award Ceremony for 7th and 8th grade students at the Sabre Room in Hickory Hills. One hundred finalists were selected from over one thousand applicants to appear before a panel of judges for a formal interview. Following the interviews, 12 winners were selected, three boys and three girls from each grade. “There’s a lot of attention these days on a few young people that make bad decisions,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I look forward to this long standing program every year because it gives me the opportunity to highlight a group of well-rounded young men and women that the entire district can be proud of. Looking at these individuals – and the strong network of family, friends, and teachers that surrounds them – I know they will make great contributions to their communities and our country.” Lipinski congratulated all the finalists and urged them to continue working hard and focus on ways they can be of service to others The winners are: • Seventh grade boys: Austin Monaco, Santa Lucia; Christopher Neary, St. Cajetan; Sabastian Alander Sawicki, Simmons Middle School • Seventh grade girls: Ariana Ascencio, St. Rene; Sadie Reese, St. Cajetan; Kayla Grover, Liberty Junior High • Eighth grade boys: Nikolas Anaya, Bridgeport Catholic Academy; Frank Gomilka, SS. Cyril & Methodius; Jeffrey Vitek, McClure Junior High • Eighth grade girls: Hannah Heppner, St. Christina; Elizabeth Stehlik, St. Daniel The Prophet; Patricia Ann Tichy, Clissold Elementary Each finalist was awarded a certificate for their hard work and superior essay. The 12 winners were awarded a special plaque and other prizes.
03.05.2014	On Thursday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted to eliminate the fine for violating the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate in 2014. This is Congressman Lipinski’s statement: “Earlier this year the Obama Administration announced that some people could be granted a ‘financial hardship exemption’ from the individual mandate if they had their health care plan cancelled because of new rules instituted by the Affordable Care Act. This has created much confusion about the mandate and who it applies to. In addition, last month the Congressional Budget Office estimated that one million people will be deterred from signing up for health insurance this year because of all the problems that the Department of Health and Human Services had implementing the healthcare.gov website. Combine these with the two delays of the employer mandate and other changes to the implementation of the ACA and it only makes sense that the individual mandate penalty for this year should be eliminated for all Americans. While I didn't vote for the ACA, I encourage people who do not have health insurance to sign up. I have sponsored, co-sponsored, or voted for more than two dozen bills to make needed changes to the ACA. I will continue to work with members of both parties on ways to fix this law so that our health care system works better for all Americans.”
02.28.2014	This week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) spoke about the ways that the government can be helpful to entrepreneurs as they develop and perfect the job-creating innovations of tomorrow. He made his comments during the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) Innovation Summit. “Entrepreneurship is key to innovation and is critical to America’s future economic success, especially when it comes to new energy technologies,” said Lipinski. The most recent Global Entrepreneurship Monitor report found that a greater percentage of Americans were involved in a startup or new business in 2012 than at any time since the study began in 1999. “There is definitely more the federal government can do,” stated Lipinski. “We need to give scientists and engineers who are budding entrepreneurs some of the tools they'll need to be able to commercialize their ideas. The federal government can help with what is called proof-of-concept funding at universities and national labs to allow researchers to test their ideas out before making the leap to entrepreneurship. In this Congress, I helped introduce a bill called the TRANSFER Act that would set aside funds for proof-of-concept programs at universities. I am very hopeful we will be able to get this enacted this Congress, and the Science Committee may very possibly move on it soon.” Another area to focus on is teaching researchers how to be entrepreneurial. “Many brilliant researchers don't have the first idea about how to start a company,” stated Lipinski. “Given that three-fourths of all startups fail, we need to teach how to fail, how to adapt, and how to eventually succeed. I've long been a supporter of the National Science Foundation's Innovation Corps program, which does exactly that. One of the most critical components of the program is getting the research teams out of the lab to talk to potential customers, thus getting feedback on their product ideas before a prototype is made.” But Rep. Lipinski says all of the education and training in the world won't do enough if there isn't the money available to develop new ideas. In the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Congress set up a Technology Commercialization Fund that took a small percentage of the applied energy budget and dedicated it to accelerating the commercialization of research at national labs. “At the time, this fund provided technology maturation funds for the national labs, which most people I’ve spoken with have found extremely helpful,” said Lipinski. “I think we need to provide that kind of support to our national labs again, and I’ll be looking for ways to work with Congress and the Department of Energy to make that happen.” One other way the federal government can incentivize the creation of new technologies is by instituting innovation prizes for breakthroughs in solving vexing problems. In 2007, Congressman Lipinski authored legislation setting up the H-Prize for making advances in the use of hydrogen for transportation and in the last NSF authorization bill he included language to promote the use of prizes by the NSF. ARPA-E was created in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. It advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private-sector investment. Their funded projects include batteries and energy storage, biofuels, building energy efficiency, solar cells, and smart grid technologies. Lipinski – a former educator with a bachelor’s and master’s degree in engineering – is a leading member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
02.27.2014	Today, Palos Hills Mayor Jerry Bennett testified at a hearing of the U.S. House Transportation Committee Subcommittee of Highways and Transit about the need for greater federal investment in local transportation infrastructure. He talked about the importance of CREATE – the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency program – and focused specifically on the need for more funding for road underpasses at rail crossings; these projects, critical to easing road congestion, are lagging behind other CREATE projects. Bennett, who is also Chairman of the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning, was invited to testify by Congressman (IL-3) Dan Lipinski. “We support a more robust federal role in freight policy,” said Mayor Bennett. “It is time for the federal government to provide the leadership and resources to support a resilient national freight network.” “CREATE is critical to easing congestion on the roads and rails in northeastern Illinois,” said Rep. Lipinski. “In 2005, I was able to secure $100 million to get CREATE started and since then another $1.1 billion has been invested in this public-private partnership. CREATE is reducing costly congestion, saving lives, and leading to more jobs for the struggling middle class. But not enough progress has been made on funding the 25 underpasses that are part of CREATE. This must be the focus as we move forward.” As of November of last year, 20 of the 70 projects that make up the CREATE program had been completed and 9 more are under construction. “While much has been accomplished, relatively few projects have moved forward to mitigate freight's negative impacts on local communities,” stated Bennett. “Only 3 of CREATE's 25 highway-rail grade separation projects have been completed, and only 3 are under construction. In fact, due to a lack of funding, 13 grade separations have not started at all and not one of the program's 7 passenger corridor projects was completed in the past ten years. This is also highly problematic because, in a truly intermodal economy, grade separations facilitate the movement of truck traffic through the region. We need more federal investments to help complete these projects.” Bennett says the region is an unparalleled hub, not only for domestic but also for international freight. Over a billion tons of freight worth more than $3 trillion moves through the Chicago region each year. A quarter of all U.S. freight and nearly half of all U.S. intermodal freight originates, terminates, or passes through metropolitan Chicago, and nearly half of freight in the region is "through traffic," an indication of our central role in the national freight system. Rep. Lipinski thanked Bennett for his hard work and testimony, and pledged to continue to work with members of Congress in Illinois and across the country to make the freight network, especially the remaining CREATE projects, an integral part of the reauthorization of our nation’s highway and infrastructure programs. Lipinski is the senior member from the state on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. In serving as Mayor of the City of Palos Hills for over three decades, Jerry Bennett has been an outspoken advocate for uniting cities and villages. He founded and continues to serve as the President of the Southwest Conference of Mayors and is past President of the Illinois Municipal League. He has also served as Chair of the Metropolitan Mayors Caucus and is currently a member of the Mayors Caucus Executive Committee. As the representative from Southwest Cook County, Bennett holds the position of Chair of the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning and its Executive Committee.
02.25.2014	Through the hard work of Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the Illinois congressional delegation, state and local leaders, universities, and private industry, Chicago-based UI LABS is being awarded a $70 million grant from the U.S. Department of Defense to help form the Digital Manufacturing and Design Innovation Institute. The lab – headquartered on the northern end of Goose Island in Chicago – will look to turn high tech research into new products and good middle class manufacturing jobs. “One of my top priorities in Congress has been promoting American manufacturing to help create good middle class jobs in northeastern Illinois and across our nation, and one important way to do this is through public-private cooperation,” said Lipinski. “That is why I worked with my colleagues to fight for this federal grant for UI Labs.” “This Institute has the potential to re-invigorate American manufacturing and put the Chicago area on the cutting edge of manufacturing innovation, creating jobs that so many families desperately need,” stated Lipinski. The Institute will be a public-private partnership with industry having already promised to contribute more than $250 million. Leading partners on this project include General Electric, Rolls-Royce, Procter & Gamble, Dow, Lockheed Martin, and Siemens. Congressman Lipinski is a co-sponsor of H.R. 2996, the Revitalize American Manufacturing and Innovation Act of 2013, which would authorize the creation of similar institutes across the country that would each be focused on a unique technology, material, or process relevant to advanced manufacturing. Digital manufacturing is the use of an integrated, computer-based system comprised of simulation, three-dimensional (3D) visualization, analytics and various collaboration tools to create product and manufacturing process definitions simultaneously.
02.20.2014	A great opportunity is available for high school students looking to showcase their artistic talents for a national audience. Right now, Congressman Dan Lipinski is accepting submissions from all high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois for the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the winner will receive two roundtrip tickets to travel to our nation’s capitol in June for the exhibition opening. Runners-up will have their artwork prominently displayed in Congressman Lipinski's offices for one year. All submissions must include the Student Information and Release Form, which can be found here. Submission Guidelines: · All artwork must be two-dimensional · Each piece can be no larger than 28” x 28” x 4” including the frame · If the winning piece is not framed, the artist will be required to frame the artwork within the sizing guidelines · Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. · Each entry must be completely original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws · Winning artwork will be on display in Washington for one year and will not be available to be returned to the winner during that period · Accepted media for artwork are as follows: o Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. o Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, charcoal, ink, markers o Collage o Prints: lithographs, silk screen, block prints o Mixed Media: use of more than two media such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. o Computer-Generated Art o Photography More information about the submission guidelines can be found here. All entries must be received at the Congressman’s District offices in Chicago (6245 S. Archer Ave.), Oak Lawn (5309 W. 95 Street), Lockport (222 East 9th Street), or Orland Park (14700 S. Ravinia Ave.) by April 23, 2014. If you have any questions, please contact the Congressman’s Chicago office at (312) 886-0481. The winning artist will be notified in early May and the exhibition opening will be in June in Washington, D.C.
02.18.2014	World War II Veteran Bruno Perino is joined by family, members of American Legion Orland Memorial Post #111 and Congressman Dan Lipinski after receiving the Knight of the Legion of Honor Medal. Monday evening, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped honor brave World War II Veteran Bruno Perino, who was awarded the Knight of the Legion of Honor Medal, the highest honor that France can bestow upon those who have achieved remarkable deeds for France. Mr. Perino earned this honor for his bravery in helping to liberate France as a rifleman in the 45th Division of the U.S. Army. Lipinski joined Mr. Perino’s family, members of the American Legion Orland Memorial Post #111 and staff from the George Brown Veterans Center in Orland Park for the ceremony. “Bruno Perino is an exceptional individual and we can’t thank him enough for his service to our great nation and the world,” said Lipinski. “I extend my heartfelt gratitude to Bruno and his family, and congratulate him on receiving this rare honor.” As a teenager, Perino saw his first action on the beaches of Marseilles just six days after D-Day. During his time overseas, he faced countless attacks by Germans; even singlehandedly capturing a German officer and his soldiers in Alsace-Lorraine. Hefought his way through France, Yugoslavia and Belgium, before finally arriving in Germany. There, he helped liberate the Dachau Concentration Camp. Constantly immersed in death, destruction and despair, he relied heavily on faith and the power of prayer to get him through the day. After the war was over, Bruno returned to Chicago and was honorably discharged with a variety of military decorations, including three Bronze Stars. Perino went on to build a life in Chicago, getting married and raising three children. He has since been blessed with grandchildren and great-grandchildren. “In today’s world, we are quick to heap praise on certain individuals and label them a ‘hero’,” said Rep. Lipinski. “When talking about Bruce Perino, ‘hero’ seems like an understatement. This humble man from Chicago accomplished more during a few years in his youth than most people accomplish in an entire lifetime. He and his peers were thrust into terrifying situations, seeing things no person should ever see, and they saved not just our country, but the entire world. I am honored to give a hero like Bruce Perino my heartfelt thank you, both here and in the U.S. Congress.” Lipinski presented a copy of the statement he made honoring Mr Perino in the United States House of Representatives. A letter from the French Consulate in Chicago reads: “Through this award, the French government pays tribute to the soldiers who did so much for France and Western Europe. More than 65 years ago, you gave your youth to France and the French people. Many of your fellow soldiers did not return, but they remain in our hearts. Thanks to your courage, and to our American friends and allies, France has been living in peace for the past six decades. You saved us and we will never forget. Gratitude and remembrance are forever in our souls.”
02.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced a resolution in honor of National Engineers Week, which is being celebrated February 16-22. As one of only 13 members of Congress with a degree in engineering – a Bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Master's degree in Engineering-Economic Systems, Lipinski understands the importance of supporting the engineers of today and offering encouragement and guidance to the engineers of tomorrow. On Friday, Rep. Lipinski will be addressing the Chicagoland Engineering Awards Banquet in Chicago. "Throughout the history of our nation, engineers have always played a pivotal role," said Lipinski. "Engineering is problem solving, so every day engineers are working hard to make our lives better. National Engineers Week builds on these successes, bringing engineers into K-12 classrooms across the country to celebrate how engineers make a difference in our world." DiscoverE sponsors National Engineers Week – celebrated the week of George Washington’s birthday – which focuses on sustaining and growing a dynamic engineering profession through outreach, education, and volunteerism to keep the United States a global leader in engineering and engineering education. This year's theme is "Let's Make a Difference." "This week is about building a foundation for the students," stated Lipinski. "They meet an engineer – maybe for the first time – and learn about the profession through hands-on activities and demonstrations, hopefully opening their minds to eventually considering engineering as a possible career choice." Recent studies have shown that while only 4 percent of the nation's workforce is composed of scientists and engineers, this group disproportionately creates jobs for the other 96 percent. As a member of the Research and Technology Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, and as the co-chair of the House STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) Education caucus, Rep. Lipinski has pushed for improvements in STEM education throughout his career. He is a believer that improving STEM education at all levels is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and creates jobs that meet our needs for future generations. For more information on National Engineers Week, visit http://www.discovere.org.
02.17.2014	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) — Illinois's most senior member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus — has sent a congratulations letter to new Metra Executive Director/CEO Don Orseno and asked him to address problems with delays on the BNSF line and the need for increased service on the Heritage Corridor. "Without question, the impact of the system-wide delays this winter cannot be overstated, especially on the BNSF line. Unfortunately, Metra's service on the BNSF lagged throughout parts of last year as well,” Lipinski stated. “Many of my constituents believe Metra's service along the line is slipping. One of my highest priorities is to ensure reliable, high quality public transportation in northeastern Illinois. For this reason, I urge you to take measurable steps to improve the reliability of this service." Metra's BNSF route accommodates 47 round-trip trains per day from Aurora to downtown Chicago through Lipinski's congressional district. The line is by far the most utilized route in Metra's system, with a monthly ridership of approximately 1.3 million. Since 1999, Metra has operated three round-trip trains per day on the Heritage Corridor. During this period of time, the population served by the line has significantly increased. In Will County between 2000 and 2010, the populations of Romeoville, Joliet, and Lockport grew by 88%, 39%, and 12%, respectively. Southwest Cook County has also grown over the past 10 years with the populations of Lemont, Willow Springs, and Summit increasing by 22%, 10%, and 4%, respectively. As a result, ridership on the Heritage Corridor has expanded by approximately 25% over the past ten years with the potential for much greater ridership if additional service is added. "For these reasons, I urge you to provide additional service on the [Heritage Corridor] line and work with me on behalf of the residents of northeast Will County and southwest Cook County to make it a reality," said Lipinski. "Given your career railroad experience, I am hopeful that you will move Metra forward in a positive direction and that we can work together to ensure reliable and adequate Metra service for all the residents of the region." Lipinski appreciates the feedback he has gotten from his constituents and encourages them to continue to speak out regarding these issues.
02.11.2014	On Tuesday, Former Chicago Ald. Martin J. Oberman became Metra's new chairman after a unanimous vote by the agency's board of directors. His term will expire in November of 2016. "I congratulate Mr. Oberman on his selection as the new chairman of Metra," said Congressman Lipinski. "I have known Marty personally since the 1970s and I agree with the board's opinion that his many years of public service with a focus on reform will be pivotal as the nation's second busiest commuter rail system moves forward. I am confident that, under Chairman Oberman's leadership, Metra will continue to push the changes already underway to make the system first class and cost-efficient for passengers and all taxpayers." Lipinski is the most senior Chicago-area member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee.
02.10.2014	“It is good news that the Obama Administration has decided to further delay the employer healthcare mandate because they see that it cannot be implemented without harming employers and job creation,” said Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3). “I have had and continue to have many concerns about the impact of the Affordable Care Act; that is why I voted against it and I have sponsored, cosponsored, or voted for two dozen changes to the law. Legislation I support, like the bipartisan Save American Workers Act - a bill that changes the ACA's definition of full time work from 30 to 40 hours - needs to become law to help preserve the take-home-pay of millions of Americans. It is about time that the President, along with both parties, put the rhetoric aside and work to identify the significant problems that still exist with the law and fix them - this is what the American people expect of us. I will continue to reach out to my constituents for their input on this well-intentioned, but deeply flawed law.”
02.10.2014	On Monday afternoon, Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL3) and Todd Young (R-IN9) announced they would be consolidating their efforts to redefine full-time employment as the traditional 40-hour work week under the Affordable Care Act. Lipinski—who authored H.R. 2988, the Forty Hours is Full Time Act—has joined Young’s H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers Act, as a co-sponsor. “Last summer I introduced the Forty Hours is Full Time Act to change the ACA's definition of full time work from 30 to 40 hours,” said Lipinski. “Today I am happy to join with Rep. Young on his Save American Workers Act to make a bipartisan push to a floor vote on this commonsense issue. This needed change to the ACA will protect part-time workers from losing work schedule flexibility and potentially losing 10 hours of wages a week.” “As we prepare for possible floor action to restore the traditional understanding of full-time employment, I’m grateful to Congressman Lipinski for his support of this effort,” said Young. “By helping to restore the hours of hardworking Americans across the country, we’re protecting their paychecks. That should be a principle we can all get behind, regardless of our party affiliation.” The Ways and Means Committee held a hearing on the impact of the 30-hours-is-full-time provision of the Affordable Care Act on January 28. Testimony from representatives of the retail, restaurant and education sectors focused on hourly workers seeing their hours cut to 29 hours or less, resulting in effective pay cuts for as many as 2.6 million employees nationwide. On February 4, the Ways and Means Committee held a markup of Young’s bill, and referred it to the full House of Representatives. In addition to Lipinski, three other Democrats signed on as co-sponsors to H.R. 2575. A similar bill has been introduced on a bipartisan basis in the Senate.
01.23.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski has once again introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives praising the outstanding work of Catholic schools and honoring National Catholic Schools Week. The theme for this year’s Catholic Schools Week — which runs from Jan. 26 to Feb. 1 — is “Catholic Schools: Communities of Faith, Knowledge and Service.” “As a proud graduate of Catholic grammar school and high school, every year I look forward to highlighting the achievements of America’s Catholic schools during Catholic Schools Week,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Chicago Archdiocese and the Joliet Diocese run two of the very best school systems in the country, regularly producing graduates who are successful in their chosen fields and go on to become leaders in their communities. Visiting the students, teachers, and administrators at our Catholic schools throughout this special week is always inspiring. It is one of the highlights of my year.” During Catholic Schools Week, Rep. Lipinski visits and speaks at Catholic schools throughout his district. Among the schools he is scheduled to visit this year are St. Francis Xavier School in LaGrange, SS. Cyril & Methodius School in Lemont and St. Catherine of Alexandria School in Oak Lawn. Rep. Lipinski’s resolution, H.Res. 461, praises Catholic schools for instilling a “broad, values-added education emphasizing the lifelong development of moral, intellectual, physical, and social values in young people in the United States.” It also notes that in the 2012-13 school year, the total Catholic school student enrollment was more than 2 million, with an outstanding student-teacher ratio of 13 to 1. The graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent, with 85 percent of graduates going on to four-year colleges. Today, more than 15 percent of students in Catholic schools are not Catholic. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of minority students enrolled in Catholic schools has more than doubled. “On behalf of Catholic educators across the country, we are grateful to Congressman Lipinski and the co-sponsors of this resolution in support of Catholic education and National Catholic Schools Week,” said Brother Robert Bimonte, FSC, President of the National Catholic Educational Association. “This week is not only a celebration but a timely reminder that Catholic schools are both a gift to the Church and to the nation that must be treasured and preserved.” This year marks the 40th anniversary of Catholic Schools Week, as designated by the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s resolution is attached.
01.23.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) introduced more bipartisan pieces of legislation than any other Democrat in the House of Representatives in 2013, according to an independent analysis by govtrack.us. The website, one of the leading online resources for tracking members of Congress and congressional voting records, found that 83 percent of Rep. Lipinski’s bills and resolutions last year had cosponsors from both parties. “My job as a Representative is not just to complain and blame, but to propose and work for solutions to problems that my constituents and our nation face,” Rep. Lipinski said. “In this era of bitter partisanship and divided government, with different parties representing each chamber of Congress, it is more important than ever to reach across the aisle and build consensus if we are ever going to get anything done in Washington. “Ever since I was elected to Congress, I have made it a priority to work with all sides on legislation that helps create jobs, improves the lives of middle-class Americans, and makes America an even stronger nation. I will continue working with my colleagues across the political spectrum in 2014 to be a real problem solver for the American people. ” Among the key bipartisan pieces of legislation Rep. Lipinski introduced in 2013 were the Buy American Improvement Act (HR 3346), the Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act (HR 2853), the American Manufacturing Competitvness Act (HR 2447) and the Customs Training Enhancement Act (HR 1322). In its 2013 Report Card, govtrack.us noted that the only House member to author more bipartisan pieces of legislation was U.S. Rep. Edward Royce (CA-39). A complete listing can be viewed by clicking HERE or visiting by govtrack.us.
01.20.2014	Bottom row, left to right: Zachary Pakula, Nicholas Bilotta, Elaine Smith, Rudolph Garza Jr., Peter Strawbridge. Top row, left to right: U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski, Michael Triner, Jack McHugh, Michael Kelly, Jordan Tyler, Alex Villafuerte. U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he is nominating 14 high school and college students from the 3rd Congressional District for admission to the U.S. Service Academies for the entering classes of 2014. The nominees were recognized by Rep. Lipinski for their achievement at a ceremony on Saturday, Jan. 18, at the Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 in Oak Lawn. “One of my proudest duties as a congressman is helping young men and women meet their goals by nominating them for admission to our prestigious service academies. My office receives hundreds of applications each year from an impressive collection of dedicated, patriotic students with a desire to serve their country,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Just to be nominated to one of our nation’s service academies is a major accomplishment and a tremendous honor. I am excited to see what the future holds for this latest group of nominees. I am sure each of them will make an impact no matter what path they take in life.” The nominees are: • U.S. Air Force Academy: David Garza, of Chicago’s Bridgeport community, Texas Military Institute; Paolo Jimenez, of Bridgeview, Amos Alonzo Stagg High School; Peter Strawbridge, of Western Springs, Lyons Township High School; Michael Triner, of Oak Lawn, St. Laurence High School, currently enrolled at Iowa State University. • U.S. Military Academy: Daniel Calero, of Lemont, Marist High School; Andrew Jacobs, of LaGrange, Mt. Carmel High School; Jordan Tyler, of Chicago Ridge, Morgan Park Academy. • U.S. Naval Academy: Nicholas Bilotta, of Chicago’s Mt. Greenwood community, St. Rita High School; Rudolph Garza, of Chicago’s Garfield Ridge community, St. Rita High School; Michael Kelly, of Western Springs, Fenwick High School; Jack McHugh, of Chicago’s Mt. Greenwood community, Marist High School; Zachary Pakula, of Chicago’s Mt. Greenwood community, Brother Rice High School; Elaine Smith, of Western Springs, Lyons Township High School; Alex Villafuerte, of Oak Lawn, Richards High School. The admissions departments of the service academies make the final decision on acceptance. Each of the nominees will be notified by the service academies if they have been accepted.
01.15.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on Secretary of State John Kerry’s visit this week to the Vatican: “I am very pleased with Secretary Kerry’s visit to the Vatican yesterday, something I had encouraged him to make a priority in a letter I sent with three of my colleagues in June. This was the first time in nearly nine years that a Secretary of State had visited the Vatican, and it was reported that President Obama will be traveling to meet with Pope Francis in the future. This isn’t just an important bond for tens of millions of Catholic Americans, but a vital diplomatic relationship that facilitates the United States working with the Holy See on a wide range of global issues of peace, justice, humanitarian aid, and religious freedom. I am hopeful that this visit signals that the Administration recognizes the vital importance of the Holy See and how working with it can help advance issues of importance to America and the world.” A copy of the congressman’s letter is attached.
01.15.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that $11.4 million for the Lockport Powerhouse is included in the bipartisan $1.1 trillion government spending bill that is under consideration in both the House and the Senate. The funding will facilitate the completion of the design and the awarding of a construction contract for repairs to the forebay wall at the facility operated by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. “For more than a century, the Lockport Powerhouse has been instrumental in maintaining the Chicago waterways system. I am proud to announce this funding that will help to ensure the powerhouse remains viable for many years to come,” Rep. Lipinski said. “While the $1.1 trillion spending bill currently before us does not address the country’s long-term deficit and economic problems, it does stabilize government funding and operations for the next year, avoiding a repeat of the partisan bickering that led to the senseless federal shutdown last fall. I will be supporting it and continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on a more comprehensive plan that solves our serious fiscal issues, spurs job creation and leads the nation forward.” The Lockport Powerhouse was built in 1907, next to the location where the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal connects with the Des Plaines River. The powerhouse, included on the National Register of Historic Places, plays a key role in helping to control the levels of the canal and reduce the risk of flooding on area waterways. The water flowing through the facility is harnessed by two turbines to generate electricity for ComEd.
01.14.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the only northeastern Illinois member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, today helped launch the first hearing on reauthorizing the federal surface transportation bill that provides funding for road, public transit, and rail infrastructure. The last bill, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21), was signed into law in July 2012 and expires at the end of September. “Today the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee started the important task of creating and passing a comprehensive, long-term surface transportation bill that creates jobs and invests in our future. I have long believed that transportation is the backbone of our economy, vital to improving the quality of life in our local communities and spurring economic growth. This is especially true in northeastern Illinois, which suffers from some of the worst congestion in the nation and is in need of major upgrades to its public transportation system. “Unfortunately, there has been a constant struggle in recent years to pass a bill that does more than provide a short-term Band-Aid on the enormous infrastructure needs of our nation. There is plenty of blame to go around for this as leadership has been lacking on both sides of the aisle. But the American people don’t need a blame game, they need a robust funding bill with innovative policies that gives long-term certainty and allows our states and communities to adequately plan for their transportation needs. “As we on the committee proceed with the hard work in the months ahead to build the framework for funding America’s road, transit, and rail projects, I will be working with all the stakeholders involved to address the tough choices we face. I look forward to working together to pass legislation that truly meets our region’s and our nation’s transportation needs.” Rep. Lipinski has served on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee since 2007. He currently sits on the Aviation Subcommittee and the Railroads, Pipelines & Hazardous Materials Subcommittee. Last year, he co-founded the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus, aimed at addressing issues facing the country’s public transportation systems, including rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, and traditional bus service. Also testifying at today’s hearing was Stuart Levenick, group president, Caterpillar, Inc., in Peoria.
01.14.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today regarding his opposition to H.R. 3830, the Congressional Trade Priorities Act of 2014, legislation that was introduced last week to grant the President trade promotion authority (TPA) – also known as “fast track” authority – on international trade agreements currently being negotiated. The bill would allow the Administration to negotiate trade agreements with foreign nations and then “fast track” legislation implementing these agreements through Congress in a short time period with limited debate and no amendments allowed. “Recently legislation has been introduced by some members of Congress that would allow new international trade agreements currently being negotiated by the Obama Administration – such as the Trans Pacific Partnership – to be “fast tracked” through Congress. This would be a terrible mistake. Too often in recent years Congress has failed the American people by abdicating its responsibilities and relinquishing too much power to the executive branch. This has been especially harmful when it comes to trade agreements. “Over the last few decades we have seen American presidents – both Democrats and Republicans – negotiate trade agreements that they promised would help American workers. But these promises of more and better jobs have not only gone unfulfilled, once the negotiated trade pacts were implemented we have seen larger trade deficits and a declining standard of living for middle-class Americans. In our increasingly connected world, greater foreign trade is necessary to grow the American economy and create more jobs. To this end, international agreements that break down barriers to trade and open markets to fair competition can be good. “Congress has a responsibility to the American people to be fully informed about trade agreements the Administration is negotiating, to take time to carefully study concluded agreements and to make necessary changes to the implementing legislation the Administration sends to Congress. Only then can we be certain that the interests of American workers are being served and not just American business interests. The legislation currently being proposed to grant trade promotion authority would undermine those responsibilities. For these reasons, I cannot support it.”
01.09.2014	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on today’s U.S. Army Corps of Engineers public meeting in Chicago to discuss the agency’s report on the options for preventing the spread of aquatic nuisance species, such as the Asian carp, into the Great Lakes: “As the congressman representing a district that includes waterways that tie the Great Lakes to the Mississippi River basin, I am keenly familiar with the issues and challenges presented by the Asian carp and other invasive species. The Great Lakes are among our most precious natural resources, supporting critical fishing and tourism industries, while providing clean drinking water and unmatched recreational opportunities. Also, as northeastern Illinois’ lone member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, I am aware of the crucial role the shipping industry plays in our country’s economy by creating jobs and commercial activity. “I commend the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on the thorough report it has submitted to Congress for consideration. While most of the public attention so far has focused on one or two of the eight proposed actions, it is critical that we study all of the possibilities and weigh the pros and cons of each, including looking at the estimated cost, time, environmental impact, economic impact and likelihood of success. There is no ‘silver bullet’ and there are no guaranteed outcomes, but this should not be an excuse for inaction. I look forward to continuing the dialogue with the Army Corps and including all other interested stakeholders to develop a realistic and feasible plan of action to protect the Great Lakes, while preserving those jobs that depend on a healthy, vibrant waterways system.” Rep. Lipinski is the cosponsor of an amendment to the Water Resources Reform and Development Act that requires federal agencies to develop a set of best practices to eliminate the spread of Asian carp through activities like contract fishing and pesticide application. In 2009, Rep. Lipinski helped to pass legislation that enabled the construction of a 13-mile system of barriers in his district to prevent the invasive species from being swept from the Des Plaines River and the I&M Canal and into the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal during heavy rains and flooding. The congressman’s district also is home to three electronic barriers in operation in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal near Romeoville to deter the movement of Asian carp and between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River basin.
12.19.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today is recognizing Archbishop of Chicago Francis Cardinal George on the 50th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood with an official statement in the House of Representatives. The congressman on Wednesday joined more than 100 bishops from around the world and hundreds of members of the Chicago Archdiocese in congratulating Cardinal George as he celebrated this milestone with a Mass at Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. “For almost 17 years Cardinal George has led his people in the Chicago Archdiocese with his unmatched intellect and warmth. At Mass yesterday, Archbishop Joseph Kurtz, president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, very aptly described George as ‘intelligent and articulate, courageous and curious, humble, zealous,’” Rep. Lipinski said in his statement. “Today I express my admiration for Cardinal George's devotion to the Archdiocese of Chicago and the entire community, and honor his lifetime of achievements.” A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s complete statement in the House of Representatives is attached.
12.13.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) at a ceremony this week presented Dr. William DeRose, of Palos Heights, with the Bronze Star he earned for his work as an Army doctor during the Vietnam War. Rep. Lipinski’s office discovered DeRose was eligible to receive the medal after making a routine request on his behalf for a copy of his military personnel records. “I am honored to take part in this special day for Dr. DeRose and proud that my office was able to get him the Bronze Star that he earned, but never officially received after all of these years,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Our veterans courageously served this country. As the congressman for the Third District, it is extremely important to me that they get the recognition they deserve for the sacrifices they have made on our behalf.” The Bronze Star is the fourth-highest individual military award. It is awarded for acts of heroism, acts of merit, or meritorious service in a combat zone. Dr. DeRose served as the commanding officer of the 11th Armored Calvary Regiment’s 37th Medical Company for a total of one year in Vietnam in 1967 and 1968. He left the service with the rank of captain and was given by a superior officer a Bronze Star that was never officially recognized by the military. Rep. Lipinski’s office caught and corrected the paperwork error when Dr. DeRose asked for help obtaining his Army personnel file. Army personnel were on hand with Rep. Lipinski to present Dr. DeRose with the Bronze Star at a Veterans Fair the congressman hosted Dec. 10 at the Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 in Oak Lawn. Dr. DeRose retired from his Oak Lawn practice in 1996, but he continues to teach medical students at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn. He lives in Palos Heights with his wife of 53 years, Henrietta. Together they have four children and three grandchildren.
12.13.2013	A proposal introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) to provide better aid to victims of sexual assault in the military was included in the final version of the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that was approved last night in the House by a 350-69 vote. Lipinski’s provision will require the military to provide professionally trained sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE) to assist in assault investigations and offer specialized medical treatment and care to victims. “Making specialized care available in the aftermath of these terrible crimes is a commonsense measure that I hope empowers victims of sexual assault to come forward and increases the likelihood their offenders receive the punishment they deserve,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We have the best military in the world, but the large number of sexual assaults is absolutely unacceptable. Providing trained sexual assault nurse examiners is one positive change that will help victims and hopefully lead to fewer assaults.” In May, Rep. Lipinski introduced the SANE Deployment Act, H.R. 1986, to require the military for the first time to provide professionally trained sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE).The bill was incorporated as an amendment to the House version of the NDAA, eventually becoming a provision in the compromise legislation developed by the House and Senate. Influenced by Rep. Lipinski’s bill, the NDAA requires the Department of Defense to make available a qualified SANE to collect evidence during the early critical stages of a sexual assault investigation and provide the appropriate physical and mental care necessary for victims. The ultimate goal is to reduce the number of sexual assaults within the ranks of the armed forces by bringing more offenders to justice and deterring others from committing similar crimes. The NDAA likely will be up for consideration in the Senate next week. The Pentagon earlier this year estimated that as many as 26,000 military members may have been sexually assaulted in 2012, up from an estimated 19,000 in 2011. Less than 10 percent of reported cases ended with a court martial conviction, with the majority of those resulting in administrative punishment and dismissal. An anonymous survey of military personnel found that thousands more were unwilling to come forward to report the crimes committed against them.
12.12.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) met last week with Polish hero and international statesman Lech Walesa at the Washington, D.C. opening of “Man of Hope,” the movie chronicling his incredible rise from an electrician in the Gdansk shipyards and leader of the movement that felled Soviet communism to the first democratically elected president of post-communist Poland. Rep. Lipinski is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland and represents nearly 100,000 Polish-Americans in Congress, one the highest numbers for any congressional district. “Lech Walesa will always be one of my personal heroes for his spirit and tenacity in the face of seemingly insurmountable obstacles,” Rep. Lipinski said. “He is one of the greatest freedom fighters of our time, whose strong Catholic faith and devotion to personal liberty were central to the end of the Cold War. Lech Walesa is the embodiment of the tremendous feats just one man can accomplish. His story deserves to be told time and time again.” Under Walesa’s leadership, Poland’s first independent trade union, Solidarity, demanded free elections and bravely called for the end of the county’s Soviet-backed communist government. In 1983, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace. In a historic speech before a joint session of Congress in 1989, he famously evoked the U.S. Constitution by starting his address with the words, “We the people.” Following communism’s collapse, Walesa was elected president of the Republic of Poland in 1990, serving for five years. A monument to Walesa and the Solidarity movement stands in Rep. Lipinski’s’ district at the intersection of Archer Avenue and 55th Street in Chicago’s Garfield Ridge community. In Congress, Rep. Lipinski has been a leader in the push to admit Poland to the Visa Waiver Program so Polish citizens won’t have to go through the difficult process of obtaining a visa in order to visit the United States for weddings, baptisms, and other family events.
12.12.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement tonight on the House passage of the budget conference committee agreement: "While I voted in favor of this agreement that was reached only once all sides sat down and worked together in a bipartisan manner, much work remains. I am glad that both parties from both chambers could find a way to reduce some of the harmful effects of the sequester that are strangling investment in many critical areas. I am also happy we can put to the side the budget showdowns that have divided this country and led to the government shutting down in October. "One thing missing from this agreement, however, is an extension of long-term unemployment benefits. No one wants to see these benefits have to continue and Congress should be doing more to help spur job creation, but in the meantime we should extend these benefits. "It is important to point out that this is not the long-term deficit reduction and sequester relief agreement that our nation needs. I am very disappointed that we did not get there in these budget negotiations. We still must strive toward the type of vision developed by the Simpson-Bowles commission back in 2010 to tackle our growing long-term debt problem and encourage fiscal sustainability. I was one of the ‘Brave 38’ in the House who backed a budget based on the commission’s recommendations. I was hoping that the budget conference committee would develop a similar agreement. Although they did not, this bill is still a small step forward which will hopefully lead to more bipartisan progress in leading our nation forward in addressing the serious economic and fiscal matters we still face."
12.10.2013	As part of his commitment to finding out what caused the Nov. 4 seismic event that shook several communities in his district, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has announced that Northwestern University, in conjunction with the United States Geological Survey (USGS), has installed a seismograph at the Hanson Materials quarry in McCook. Rep. Lipinski met today with the Lyons Township Quarry Advisory Council, which is composed of local communities and McCook quarry operators, to discuss how the investigation into what may have caused the earth to shake is going to proceed. With the congressman’s help, the seismograph was put in place Dec. 3 by Northwestern University in order to record and upload readings to the USGS around the clock. This will provide the first comprehensive information on seismic activity in the area. Prior to the Nov. 4 event, the only seismic activity at the quarry being recorded was limited and performed by Hanson Materials immediately before, during, and after scheduled blastings. “More than a month after the event that alarmed so many throughout our communities, it is clear that the answers to some of the key questions will take time and significant study. This seismograph is one piece to help us solve the puzzle as to why these events have occurred and, most important, what can be done to prevent them from happening again,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am committed to continuing to work with our communities, Hanson Materials, and the relevant federal agencies to learn as much as we can about what exactly happened so we can protect homeowners and businesses. I am also hopeful that the state agencies responsible for granting permits and overseeing quarries and mines in Illinois will begin to take a closer look at what has happened.” The 3.2 magnitude tremor was recorded at a seismograph in Lake County seven seconds after a much smaller blast at the McCook quarry. It ultimately was determined by USGS to be an earthquake likely caused by normal, legal activities at the quarry. A similar event also occurred in 2010. Hanson Materials has not performed blasting since the incident and does not anticipate resuming until spring. The company has promised the neighboring communities that it will inform them if and when blasting does resume.
12.06.2013	U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) have asked the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct an independent, comprehensive assessment of the functionality of the Affordable Care Act website, healthcare.gov. Reps. Lipinski and Sinema, in a letter signed by 10 House members, requested the GAO to perform the analysis as quickly as possible to help Congress determine if an extension of the open enrollment period and a delay of the penalties imposed on those who do not carry health insurance are necessary. “Despite assurances that healthcare.gov has been fixed after the disastrous rollout, significant concerns still remain. Reports suggest that there are still issues with waiting times and system glitches that are making it difficult for some people to sign up for a health care plan. In addition, critical parts of the system still have not been built and insurers may not be receiving correct information about the individuals and families who have enrolled in their plans. An independent analysis of the functionality of the website is clearly warranted when millions of Americans are being required to use either healthcare.gov to purchase a health plan or pay a penalty,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I did not vote for the Affordable Care Act, but I am committed to doing everything I can to fix the multiple problems with it. Since the passage of the law, I have sponsored, co-sponsored, or voted for more than 20 pieces of legislation to institute changes, including a bill I authored to extend the open enrollment period and delay the individual mandate in order to give Americans enough time to sign up after the website was finally functioning properly.” “Arizona families need the healthcare.gov website to work so they can determine their coverage choices and costs. Progress has been made but Arizona families should also be confident that their information is secure and that their purchase is successfully transmitted to the insurance provider,” Rep. Sinema said. “This independent analysis that we are requesting will help improve the front and back end of the website so that individuals and businesses can thoroughly review their choices and make informed decisions about their health care coverage.” The letter requests that the GAO evaluate the website’s current performance and the administration’s rate of progress in making improvements. In addition to making sure that healthcare.gov can handle the traffic from people signing up for coverage, the letter also calls on the GAO to answer whether the information collected is being transferred to insurance providers in an accurate and timely manner. The report would be due to Congress at the start of its first session in January. In October, in response to problems with healthcare.gov, Rep. Lipinski introduced the Health Care Access Fairness and Penalty Delay Act (H.R. 3425). The legislation would require the Health and Human Services Inspector General to certify when the healthcare.gov website is fully operational. Once the Inspector General certifies that the website is operational, individuals would have at least 90 days to enroll in a health care plan. The penalties to comply with the law’s individual mandate would not commence until 30 days later. Rep. Lipinski has also cosponsored the “If You Like Your Health Plan, You Can Keep it Act” (H.R. 3406) in order, to help protect Americans from losing the health insurance plan they currently have. The bill would change the Affordable Care Act by allowing insurance companies to continue offering plans to existing customers that the law currently requires them to cancel. Under the bill, there is no time limit on how long these plans can be renewed. A copy of the letter to the GAO is attached.
11.27.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) visited Lewis University on Nov. 23 to talk about his recognition in the United States House of Representatives of the school’s Aviation Department for winning the prestigious Loening Trophy. The congressman, a member of the Aviation Subcommittee in Congress, presented aviation students and university officials, including Lewis President Brother James Gaffney and Aviation Department Chairman William John Brogan, with an official copy of his statement. The presentation took place in front of 500 people who came to Lewis University’s main campus for Aviation Career Day. The trophy, named after Grover Loening, the first aeronautical engineer who worked with the Wright Brothers, is given to the country’s top aviation program at the annual National Intercollegiate Flying Association Safety and Flight Evaluation Conference. It is considered the oldest and most prestigious of all collegiate aviation awards. “Lewis University has seen significant growth in their aviation department over the past few years and has emerged as one of our nation’s preeminent programs,” Rep. Lipinski said in his statement. “This honor recognizes that Lewis continues to be a collegiate aviation leader in our nation. I am proud to have this great university in my district. May the students and faculty at Lewis enjoy this prestigious award and continue their tremendous work training our future aviation workforce.” A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s statement in the House of Representatives is attached.
11.26.2013	The Science Coalition today presented Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) with its Champion of Science Award in recognition of his strong commitment to funding the basic research that keeps the United States and the state of Illinois at the forefront of scientific discovery and technological innovation. The award was presented to Rep. Lipinski by Northwestern University President Morton Schapiro and University of Chicago President Robert Zimmer at an event at 1871, a co-working center for digital startups in Chicago. Both universities, as well the University of Illinois, are members of The Science Coalition. “Congressman Lipinski understands that the federal government's investment in science and education is critical to our economic growth, our national security, and our quality of life,” said Northwestern University President Morton Schapiro.“Since his election to Congress in 2004 he has emerged as a leading voice in support of basic research, transferring research discoveries into the marketplace, and training the next generation of scientists and innovators. I am proud to honor this distinguished alumnus of Northwestern University as a true Champion of Science.” “Throughout his five terms in Congress, Dan Lipinski has played a leading role in support of science funding and innovation policies that serve to strengthen the core missions of our universities and national laboratories,” said University of Chicago President Robert Zimmer. “The recognition by the Science Coalition is well deserved.” “Congressman Lipinski has been a strong and steady voice for federal funding for scientific research that allows our state’s top research universities to address the world’s toughest challenges,” said Dr. Robert A. Easter, President of the University of Illinois, with campuses in Urbana-Champaign, Chicago and Springfield. “The University of Illinois is a land-grant institution with an economic development mission, and we are one of the nation’s top recipients of National Science Foundation funding. We are particularly grateful for his strong support for basic research at NSF as well as programs that support innovation like I-Corps, which trains researchers and students to be entrepreneurs and accelerate innovation from NSF-sponsored research.” Since joining Congress in 2004, Rep. Lipinski has emerged as a leading voice in support of federal investments in innovation and scientific research at universities, national labs, and other entities in Illinois and across the country. As a Ranking Member of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Research, Rep. Lipinski spearheaded the reauthorization of the National Science Foundation (NSF) in 2010, which increased support for high-risk research, technology transfer, and graduate research fellowships. A former teacher and engineer, he has worked to advance legislation to improve STEM education at the K-12, undergraduate, and graduate level, including the America COMPETES Act. “Our world is much better today because of the investments the United States has made in basic science research. These investments have resulted in historic breakthroughs in how we understand the world, and have led to advances in medicine and technology that have made possible new products that have created jobs and economic development. The benefits go on and on. That’s why I am committed to keeping the country at the forefront of scientific research and leading the way in developing new technologies and creating new jobs,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We are fortunate in Illinois to have three of the world’s great research universities in Northwestern University, the University of Chicago and the University of Illinois, as well as two of the finest national laboratories in Argonne and Fermilab. I wish to thank The Science Coalition and the universities for this tremendous honor.” “Congressman Lipinski understands the vital role investments in basic scientific research play in advancing American innovation, education and economic development,” said Science Coalition President Tim Leshan of Northeastern University. “He has fought tirelessly to maintain federal research funding for our nation’s science agencies and national laboratories, and we are happy to present him with this award.” The Science Coalition’s Champion of Science Award recognizes members of Congress whose actions and votes consistently reflect their belief that basic scientific research, conducted at universities and national labs across the country, is essential to the nation’s ability to address pressing issues in health, security, energy and the environment, and additionally, that a strong federally supported basic research enterprise drives innovation that fuels the U.S. economy. Rep. Lipinski joins a distinguished group of more than 60 current and former members of Congress who have received this award since 1999. The Science Coalition, a non-profit, nonpartisan organization of the nation’s leading public and private research universities, is dedicated to sustaining strong federal funding of basic scientific research as a means to stimulate the economy, spur innovation and drive America’s global competitiveness. Learn more at www.sciencecoalition.org.
11.26.2013	Today, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments in Hobby Lobby vs. Sebelius, a case challenging the ability of the government to force employers to provide services that violate their rights of conscience. Republicans and Democrats have joined together to support legislation that would overturn the coercive mandate. H.R. 940, the Health Care Conscience Rights Act, was introduced by Congressman Diane Black (R-TN), and is cosponsored by 188 members of the House. Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) is an original cosponsor of the bill. While Congressman Pitts supports the bill, he has a policy of not cosponsoring legislation referred to the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, which he chairs. “I am very pleased that the Supreme Court will consider whether Obamacare is violating the religious freedom of employers,” said Congressman Pitts. “One employer in my own district, Conestoga Wood Specialties, has been fighting alongside Hobby Lobby. Conestoga and people of faith across the nation are waiting to see if the court will protect their constitutional right to live out that faith in the marketplace.” “I am pleased that the Supreme Court has agreed to review the Obama Administration’s contraceptive mandate,” said Congressman Diane Black. “Being an American means being able to freely choose our faith and live by the dictates of that faith at home, at church, and in the public square. This Administration’s assault on religious liberty is an affront to our Constitution and the Supreme Court must now use this opportunity to preserve the liberties that our country was founded upon by striking down the HHS’ unconstitutional mandate.” “I’m pleased that the Supreme Court has decided to hear this case that, at its core, is about preserving the most fundamental of American rights: the rights to religious liberty and conscience,” said Congressman Lipinski. “Although I am hopeful the justices will recognize that the HHS mandate infringes upon these basic constitutional rights, I will continue to be a strong supporter of the Health Care Conscience Rights Act to preserve these freedoms and protect Americans so they can practice their beliefs as they choose.”
11.22.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Chicago Ald. Jim Balcer (11th) were joined today by local active duty military personnel and veterans to commemorate two solemn anniversaries, the 70th Anniversary of the Battle of Tarawa and the 50th Anniversary of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. They also renewed their demand that the United States do everything possible to bring home the bodies of the heroes left behind at Tarawa, the Pacific island critical to victory in World War II. Joining the congressman and the alderman were relatives of those brave men from the Chicago area who have not been recovered, identified and given a proper burial. “Today we commemorate two anniversaries and honor the heroism of great men who served our nation bravely and magnificently before their lives were cut short,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The importance of the Battle of Tarawa and the contributions of those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country cannot be overstated. The courage they demonstrated on Tarawa will never be forgotten, but we still have unfinished business. We make a promise to all of our military men and women to leave no one behind. Sadly, we have not kept that promise at Tarawa. The men who died 70 years ago deserve to be brought back to the United States and buried with the utmost respect and honor.” “It is very fitting that these two anniversaries overlap. JFK was a WWII hero who valiantly saved members of his crew on PT-109,” Rep. Lipinski continued. “When he was elected president in 1960 he represented a new generation of leaders and his vision helped to inspire America at a great time of transition for our nation. Those Americans who fought at Tarawa and JFK are true heroes of American history, whose sacrifices have made it possible for us to enjoy the freedoms we do today as the world’s greatest nation.” “As a Marine Corps veteran, it is an honor and a privilege to remember all of the Marines and Navy corpsman who died in the Battle of Tarawa. It’s only fitting on this day that we also pay our respects to President Kennedy, who received his naval officer training right here in the Chicago area and heroically saved lives serving his country in WWII,” Ald. Balcer said. “But we need to be doing more. I will continue to demand a complete accounting for all American personnel still on Tarawa. Their bodies should be brought home to their proper resting place in the United States. It is a national disgrace they are still there.” Tarawa, located halfway between Australia and Hawaii, was the scene of one of the bloodiest battles of WWII. More than 1,100 American lives were lost in three days beginning on Nov. 20, 1943, as the 2nd Marine Division and part of the Army's 27th Infantry took the island in an amphibious assault, dislodging an entrenched force of 5,000 Japanese soldiers. Lessons learned from Tarawa guided and influenced subsequent Allied landings in the Pacific, but the remains of some 564 Americans, including 38 from Illinois, were never recovered, as many bodies were buried where they fell and no detailed records ever kept. A Marine and a decorated Vietnam veteran, Ald. Balcer, fought to focus attention on the missing remains on Tarawa, showing leadership by introducing a resolution that passed the Chicago City Council. Soon afterward, in a 2010 defense authorization bill in Congress, Rep. Lipinski added an amendment calling on the Department of Defense to “recover, identify and return remains of members of the Armed Forces from Tarawa.” He subsequently supported a broader provision in the bill directing the Secretary of Defense to implement a “coordinated, integrated and fully resourced program” dedicated to the recovery of the remains of all missing military personnel. Prompted by the congressman, the U.S. Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command started investigating the remains left at Tarawa. Earlier this year, JPAC recovered three bodies, including one identified as PFC Manley Winkley, of Indianapolis. His recovery, identification and return trip home was a first for JPAC at Tarawa. At today’s ceremony at Chicago’s Bridgeport VFW Post 5079, Lipinski and Balcer paid their respects to President Kennedy, who received his training at the Naval Reserve Officers Training School at Northwestern University. Lt. Kennedy was credited with saving the lives of 10 crewmen aboard PT-109 after it was struck by a Japanese destroyer while on patrol. He was awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for his actions. Later, while commanding PT-59, Kennedy rescued several dozen Marines who were trapped during a raid on Choiseul Island. A list of the Tarawa missing from Illinois is attached.
11.15.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski, a cosponsor of the “If You Like Your Health Plan, You Can Keep it Act” (H.R. 3406), voted today in the House against a bill, H.R. 3350, offered by Rep. Fred Upton (MI-6) that does not adequately address Obamacare’s forced cancellation of health insurance plans. “Too many Americans are receiving notices that their health care plan has been cancelled because of Obamacare, despite assurances from the President that you can ‘keep your plan if you like it.’ This promise should not have been broken. Americans who have had their plans cancelled deserve a fix and Congress should provide that fix. As much as I want to vote for legislation that will do this, H.R. 3350 does not adequately fix the issue. Instead of allowing insurance companies to continue offering individuals the plan they currently have for as long as they like, it simply delays the cancellation of these policies for a year. Americans were not promised ‘if you like your plan you can keep it for a year.’ That is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 3406, the “If You Like Your Health Plan, You Can Keep it Act.” In addition, H.R. 3350 undermines the individual health insurance market because it does not only refer to individuals who currently have a plan and want to keep it. “Since the passage of the law, I have sponsored, co-sponsored, or voted for more than 20 pieces of legislation to try to make Obamacare operate fairly and effectively in both the short and the long term. I want to be able to vote for legislation that allows Americans to keep their health care plan if they like, but upon reading this bill it is clear that it does not do that. A vote for H.R. 3350 is not a vote for an idea, it is a vote for a policy, and the policy in this bill is not what was advertised.” To further protect Americans from Obamacare’s mismanaged rollout, Rep. Lipinski introduced the Health Care Access Fairness and Penalty Delay Act (H.R. 3425). This commonsense legislation would require the Health and Human Services (HHS) Inspector General to certify when the healthcare.gov website is fully operational. Once the Inspector General certifies that the website is operational, individuals would have at least 90 days to enroll in a health care plan, and the individual mandate’s penalties would not commence until 30 days later.
11.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today announced that he is cosponsoring the “If You Like Your Health Plan, You Can Keep it Act” (H.R. 3406), which will change Obamacare and allow insurance companies to continue offering plans to existing customers that the law currently requires them to cancel. Under the bill there is no time limit on how long these plans can be renewed. “Too many Americans are receiving notices that their health care plan has been cancelled because of Obamacare, despite assurances that you can ‘keep your plan if you like it.’ This promise should not have been broken,” Rep. Lipinski said. “H.R. 3406 does not guarantee that every person will still be offered their plan, but it would overturn the Obamacare requirement that these plans be cancelled at the end of this year. Problems like this are among the reasons I did not vote for Obamacare. Since the passage of the law, I have sponsored, co-sponsored, or voted for more than 20 pieces of legislation to try to make Obamacare work well in the short term, the long term and be fair to all Americans.” To further protect Americans from Obamacare’s mismanaged rollout, Rep. Lipinski introduced the Health Care Access Fairness and Penalty Delay Act (H.R. 3425). This commonsense legislation would require the Health and Human Services (HHS) Inspector General to certify when the healthcare.gov website is fully operational. Once the Inspector General certifies that the website is operational, individuals would have at least 90 days to enroll in a health care plan, and the individual mandate’s penalties would not commence until 30 days later.
11.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that U.S. Sens. Mark Kirk (IL) and Chris Coons (DE) have introduced a Senate companion bill to the congressman’s American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2013, legislation that would bolster the competitiveness of the manufacturing industry in the United States. The bill would require the development of a national manufacturing strategy, boosting traditional and high-tech manufacturers that employ nearly 12 million Americans. “Our Manufacturing Competitiveness Act has always been about bringing all sides together, from both sides of the aisle, as well as the public and private sectors, to develop a set of coordinated policies that will boost American manufacturing and help create good-paying, middle-class jobs here at home,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This legislation will help give our manufacturers a fairer shot at competing in the global marketplace and provide American workers with the opportunity to thrive in the 21st century. I thank Sens. Kirk and Coons for their leadership on this bill and their commitment to manufacturing.” “The United States is a worldwide leader in manufacturing, and keeping this industry competitive is crucial to maintaining our economic edge in the global marketplace,” Sen. Kirk said. “Manufacturers in Illinois employ more than half a million workers with quality jobs and account for 13.3 percent of the total state economic output. Our bill will ensure that the United States manufacturing industry remains competitive and creates new high-quality jobs for generations to come.” “Manufacturing has enormous power to create jobs and drive America’s economic recovery,” Sen. Coons said. “Right now, the federal government does not have a coordinated strategy for supporting America’s manufacturers. We need a national strategy that looks at skills training, R&D, trade, and the wealth of factors that contribute to our manufacturers’ success. This is a commonsense, bipartisan bill that will ensure the federal government is doing everything it can to create the conditions necessary to help America’s manufacturers grow and create jobs.” Sens. Sherrod Brown (OH) and Roy Blunt (MO) also are cosponsors of the bill. Rep. Lipinski introduced the companion legislation in the House (HR 2447) earlier this year. The manufacturing industry contributes $1.8 trillion to the U.S. economy each year. On its own, it would rank as the world’s tenth-largest economy. Current federal programs and incentives support conditions for growth in the industry, yet there is no overarching national strategy. The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act sets goals for a U.S. manufacturing strategy and requires the administration to analyze every four years what impacts manufacturing competitiveness. The bipartisan legislation does not increase government spending or create new programs. Last year, the House passed Rep. Lipinski’s H.R. 5865, legislation similar to the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, by a vote of 339-77. The bill is supported by the following organizations: Alliance for American Manufacturing (AAM) American Iron and Steel Institute American Small Manufacturers Coalition AMT - The Association for Manufacturing Technology The Dow Chemical Company DuPont International Association of Machinists NACFAM - National Council for Advanced Manufacturing National Defense Industry Association National Tooling and Machining Association North American Die Casting Association Precision Machined Products Association Precision Metalforming Association United Steelworkers United Auto Workers
11.12.2013	Each year, thousands of people use Pace service to attend sporting events and concerts Toyota Park in Bridgeview and reduce traffic congestion and air pollution around the stadium. Late next year, passengers will have a safer, more comfortable environment in which to wait for the bus when the Pace Toyota Park Transit Center is expected to open. The facility was developed and funded through a partnership involving Pace, the Village of Bridgeview, RTA and the Federal Transit Administration, with key support from Congressman Dan Lipinski along with Bridgeview Mayor and Illinois State Senator Steven Landek. The $2.475 million facility is funded via $2 million in Illinois Department of Transportation and RTA grant funds, and a $475,000 federal appropriation obtained by Congressman Lipinski. Features include an indoor waiting area along with a canopied bus staging area. Solar-powered LED lighting and other sustainable elements are planned for the final phase of construction. “I was happy to be able to secure federal funding and work with Bridgeview and Pace to help make this state-of-the-art facility possible,” said Lipinski, founder and co-chair of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus in Congress. "The new transit center at Toyota Park will make mass transit more convenient and user friendly, encourage job growth, cut down on traffic congestion and improve the quality of life for area residents. I'm proud to have played a critical role in making this project happen.” “This project benefits Toyota Park, Bridgeview and the region, and is an excellent example of how we can help residents and spur development through cooperation among multiple units of government,” said Bridgeview Mayor and State Senator Steven Landek. The surrounding area is targeted by the village for development to include entertainment and lodging, and the transit center is positioned to provide convenient access to transit service for visitors and employees traveling along the corridor. “This is an exciting opportunity for us to work together with local and regional partners to more show how investing in transit can support the success of this type of development project,” said Pace Chairman of the Board Richard Kwasneski. Pace plans to include Harlem Avenue in the development of its Arterial Rapid Transit (ART) express bus network and the transit center would be a hub for passengers to connect between local bus routes and the ART. Phase I construction is underway at Toyota Park, which includes electrical and concrete work. The next phase will include final construction of the building and canopy with completion estimated to by the end of 2014.
11.12.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), speaking today before the Lyons Township Quarry Advisory Council in Countryside, reiterated his desire to find out what exactly happened to cause the Nov. 4 seismic event that shook the western suburbs and was felt throughout the region. The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) has said the 3.2 magnitude tremor was the result of blasting in the Hanson Materials quarry in McCook. The congressman has been working with local officials, federal agencies and quarry representatives to analyze seismic data recorded that day to determine if the tremors were the result of an explosion at the quarry or some other seismic activity. “More than a week after this event that alarmed residents throughout our communities, we still need answers,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Clearly, we have a case of conflicting data, with the USGS evidence suggesting an explosion at the quarry directly caused the seismic event and Hanson Materials suggesting two events occurred -- one a planned blast, the other still unexplained. We need to get to the bottom of it so something like this does not happen again and that we hold Hanson responsible for any damage if the company is indeed responsible. As the federal representative of the area, I am committed to working with all involved parties so homeowners and business owners are protected.” Rep. Lipinski, a resident of Western Springs, roughly two miles from the quarry, has requested the U.S. Department of Labor and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms begin an investigation into the circumstances of Nov. 4. In a letter last week, the congressman asked that both agencies “ascertain whether laws, regulations, and protocols may have been violated” regarding the purchase, storage and use of explosives. Rep. Lipinski subsequently has talked at length with the USGS about its observations and is planning to meet with Hanson Materials officials in the next week. The Lyons Township Quarry Advisory Council is composed of local communities and McCook quarry operators who meet regularly to discuss issues related to quarry operations.
11.11.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) honored our nation’s veterans on Veterans Day by taking part in ceremonies in Worth, Justice, Lockport, Romeoville and Oak Lawn. “On Veterans Day, we all should take a moment to reflect and honor those brave men and women who have served the United States of America. We would not be home to the greatest country in the world if not for the dedication and selfless service of those who wore our nation’s uniform to protect our freedoms and our values. We owe them the life we know today,” Rep. Lipinski said. “For these very reasons, I am committed to fighting for our veterans and military men and women to see that they are afforded the respect, recognition and assistance they deserve. I believe, as a nation, that this is our obligation to uphold not just today, but every day.” On Nov. 18, Rep. Lipinski will be hosting, with the Village of Romeoville, a Veterans Jobs Fair at the Romeoville Recreation Center, 900 W. Romeo Road, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Veterans seeking jobs will have the chance to meet with area businesses interested in hiring veterans. Attendees should bring multiple copies of their resumes. On Dec. 10 at Oak Lawn’s Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220, 9514 S. 52nd Ave., Rep. Lipinski will be hosting a Veterans Fair from 10 a.m. to noon. At the congressman’s Veterans Fair, congressional staff, the Illinois and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will be joined by other organizations to assist veterans with a variety of issues, including military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA hospital billing, placement in VA homes, GI Bill information, nominations for U.S. Service Academies and requests for flags flown over the U.S. Capitol. For more information on these events, call 312-886-09481 or visit lipinski.house.gov.
11.07.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) paid tribute to Palmer Place Restaurant & Biergarten with an official statement in the House of Representatives honoring the downtown LaGrange institution for its three decades in the business. The statement congratulates the restaurant as a “shining example of the positive influence that local businesses can have on their communities.” Palmer Place started in 1983 after Ruth Palmer returned home from a trip to Germany, inspired to open the first biergarten in the western suburbs. Downtown LaGrange was struggling at the time, but the business grew from eight employees to more than 120 today, helping to revive the local economy while becoming a pillar of the downtown business district and active in local charities along the way. The third generation of Palmers already has begun to work in the family business. On October 27 Congressman Lipinski and his wife, Judy, took part in a special event at Palmer Place celebrating the restaurant’s 30th anniversary and the 80th birthday of Ruth Palmer. A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s statement in the House of Representatives is attached.
11.07.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will be hosting three Senior Fairs, a Veterans Fair and a Veterans Jobs Fair in November and December. The Senior Fairs will be held Nov. 22 in Countryside, Nov. 25 in Homer Glen and Dec. 16 at Chicago’s Mount Greenwood Park. The Veterans Fair will be held Dec. 10 in Oak Lawn and the Veterans Job Fair will be held Nov. 18 in Romeoville. “These events will be fantastic opportunities for local seniors, veterans and their families to get the assistance they need in one convenient location,” Rep. Lipinski said. “My office has worked with countless seniors and veterans to help them cut through the red tape to solve the challenges facing them today. I take great pride in hosting these events in our local communities throughout the year. It is my privilege to serve you.” The Senior Fairs will be held at the following times and locations: Friday, Nov. 22 10 a.m. – noon Operating Engineers Banquet Hall 6240 Joliet Road Countryside, Ill. 60525 Monday, Nov. 25 10 a.m. – noon The Megaplex 15301 S. Bell Road Homer Glen, Ill. 60491 Monday, Dec. 16 10 a.m. – noon Mount Greenwood Park 3721 W. 111th St. Chicago, Ill. 60655 At Rep. Lipinski’s Senior Fairs, seniors will have the opportunity to get help from his staff with Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, veterans’ benefits, the Postal Service, utility bills and other issues. Local organizations and agencies also offer assistance. Seniors can meet with businesses that provide services such as retirement living and offer special discounts for seniors. The Veterans Fair will be held at the following time and location: Tuesday, Dec. 10 10 a.m. – noon Johnson-Phelps VFW Post 5220 9514 S. 52nd Ave. Oak Lawn, Ill. 60453 At the congressman’s Veterans Fair, congressional staff, the Illinois and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will be joined by other organizations to assist veterans with a variety of issues, including military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA hospital billing, placement in VA homes, GI Bill information, nominations for U.S. Service Academies and requests for flags flown over the U.S. Capitol. The Veterans Jobs Fair will be held at the following time and location: Monday, Nov. 18 10 a.m. – 1 p.m. Romeoville Recreation Center 900 W. Romeo Road Romeoville, Ill. 60446 At Rep. Lipinski’s Veterans Jobs Fair, hosted with the Village of Romeoville, veterans seeking jobs will have the chance to meet with area businesses interested in hiring veterans. Attendees should bring multiple copies of their resume. For more information on any of these events, call 312-886-0481 or visit lipinski.house.gov.
11.06.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today formally requested that the U.S. Department of Labor and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms begin an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the reported Nov. 4 blast at a Hanson Materials quarry in McCook that damaged nearby properties and alarmed residents throughout the region. In a letter, the congressman asks that both agencies “ascertain whether laws, regulations, and protocols may have been violated” regarding the purchase, storage and use of explosives. Rep. Lipinski, a Western Springs resident, also is requesting that the agencies work with state and local governments to make sure the proper measures are in place to protect neighboring communities from similar events in the future. “Unfortunately, homeowners and businesses in the western suburbs are accustomed to being disturbed and startled by frequent quarry blasting, but the incident that took place earlier this week demands additional scrutiny. Residents of the area deserve some answers,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I was sitting at my kitchen table at my home in Western Springs when my house started to violently shake for five seconds. This is something that no one should have to tolerate. The potential for unseen damage to homes and businesses caused by a blast such as this is unacceptable. That’s why I am asking the appropriate federal agencies to take a closer look at what exactly happened and what can be done to prevent it from happening again.” The blast was recorded by the United States Geological Survey as a 3.2 seismic event that reportedly could be felt as far away as southern Wisconsin. In his letter, the congressman noted a smaller seismic event also occurred in 2010 under similar circumstances. A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s letter is attached.
11.04.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has helped to pass legislation in the House that includes a provision he authored to prevent the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from using the Lucas-Berg Confined Placement Facility in Worth as a dumping site for materials dredged from the Cal-Sag Channel. The provision, contained in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) that passed Oct. 25, is an important step toward eliminating the concerns of residents who live in the area. “Since I was first elected to Congress one of my top local priorities has been to remove Lucas-Berg as the Army Corps’ designated site for dumping dredged materials from the Cal-Sag. I am very happy that I was able to work with my colleagues to get this language into the House WRRDA bill,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This is very good news for the Village of Worth and local residents, but we still have work to do. I am working to make sure that this provision is in the final compromise that passes in the House and Senate and becomes law. And I continue to work with the Army Corps to find a place for the dredgings that is not in the middle of a community.” The Lucas-Berg site was acquired by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District (MWRD) and, through a long-term lease, designated by the Army Corps in the 1970s as a potential spot to store silt and other materials dredged from the bottom of the Cal-Sag Channel. Since the agreement was reached, Worth and the neighboring communities have grown and expanded to the point where the dumping would be occurring in people’s back yards if the plans were to proceed. As the region’s lone representative on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, which has legislative jurisdiction over the Army Corps, Rep. Lipinski has been instrumental in fighting for community members who fear using Lucas-Berg as a disposal site would lower property values and hurt the environment. He also has been working closely with the Army Corps and MWRD to find suitable alternative locations to store dredged materials so operations on the Cal-Sag Channel are not negatively impacted. The primary purpose of WRDDA is to authorize projects that maintain the country’s shipping infrastructure and set environmental policy for the Army Corps. The language in WRRDA regarding Lucas-Berg pit is part of a $12 billion worth of old projects and facilities that would be deauthorized. The Senate passed its version of WRRDA in May. With passage in the House, both bills now head to a conference committee to be reconciled before the final legislation can be signed by the president.
11.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by state, local, and railroad industry officials today to open the 71st Street underpass in Bridgeview, a $30 million project that created almost 300 construction jobs and will reduce travel times, greatly enhance the quality of life for residents, and make the area more attractive for job growth. As the state’s senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and the leading advocate for the CREATE rail improvement program, the congressman also touted the need for an increased commitment in grade separation projects, such as the 71st Street underpass, to deliver even more benefits to the public and the region as a whole. “Since I secured federal funding for this project and helped to break ground more than two years ago, I have been asked many, many times when 71st Street will be finished. I am proud to say it is here and it’s a beautiful sight to see,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This project, by separating the road from the rails, means less time stuck in traffic, improved safety, healthier air, and increased efficiency in moving goods. The 71st Street underpass is exactly what CREATE is all about — creating jobs, improving transportation and making sure all of Northeastern Illinois stays a great place to live and work.” Rep. Lipinski led the effort in Congress to support the state’s federal TIGER grant application that yielded $100 million for CREATE, including $20 million for the 71st Street underpass. Before the underpass was built, as many as 80 freight trains on the CSX and Indiana Harbor Belt railroads crossed 71st Street a day, resulting in congestion and long delays, especially after events at nearby Toyota Park. The project will relieve an estimated 31 hours of combined delays motorists endured each day at the crossing. CREATE, which stands for the Chicago Region Environmental & Transportation Efficiency Program, is a package of 70 projects to make the region’s rail system more efficient. In 2005, Rep. Lipinski secured the first $100 million for the program, which is funded through contributions from federal, state, and local governments, as well as the freight and commuter railroads. While most of the 70 projects in CREATE up to now have focused on rail-specific improvements, the grade separations — the overpasses and underpasses — provide the greatest benefits to the public. But of the 25 grade separation projects in CREATE, the 71st Street overpass is only the third to be completed. Three more are under construction, seven have some funding and 12 have no funding whatsoever. “It will be clear to anyone who lives and drives in Bridgeview after today that the advantages to doing more of these critical grade separations are substantial,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As we celebrate the completion of the 71st Street underpass, I am hopeful that there will be a greater commitment to these projects that do so much for our communities.”
10.30.2013	Concerned about the ongoing technical difficulties and malfunctions with healthcare.gov, the Affordable Care Act’s federal marketplace website, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today introduced the Health Care Access Fairness and Penalty Delay Act. This legislation would require the Health and Human Services (HHS) Inspector General to certify when the healthcare.gov website is fully operational, a process that would be informed in part by periodic reports from the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Once the Inspector General certifies that the website is operational, individuals would have at least 90 days to enroll in a health care plan, and the individual mandate’s penalties would not commence until 30 days later. “I and many of my constituents have been frustrated in our efforts to use the healthcare.gov website to shop for health insurance and to enroll in a new plan as required for those without insurance by the Affordable Care Act,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It is unacceptable that the Administration and its contractors produced a website with so many problems and have been unable to fix it. This must be rectified as soon as possible, but if it is not done in a timely manner it would be deeply unfair to our constituents to direct them to use a poorly-functioning portal in order to comply with the law. “I did not vote for the Affordable Care Act but it is now the law and we need to do everything we can to try to make it work. That is why I am introducing this bill. Contrary to the proposals of House Republicans and some Democrats for a delay of a year in the individual mandate, which would be very damaging to the ultimate effectiveness of the law and the health insurance marketplaces, our performance-based proposal would base any delay in the individual mandate on the time it takes for healthcare.gov to become fully operational. Only at that point will people be able to effectively use the website to find health insurance, and it is only fair that we provide reasonable time and opportunity for individuals to do so.” Should the Administration meet its goal of the healthcare.gov website being fully functional by Nov. 30, then none of the current deadlines in statute or regulation would be changed. However, under the Health Care Access Fairness and Penalty Delay Act, the enrollment period and the subsequent individual mandate and related penalties would be based on when the health insurance exchange website actually works should the technical challenges persist past that point. Rep. Lipinski was joined in introducing this bill with U.S. Reps. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9), Scott Peters (CA-52), Pete Gallego (TX-23), Ron Barber (AZ-2), Pat Murphy (FL-18), John Barrow (GA-12), Filemon Vela (TX-34) and Joe Garcia (FL-26).
10.28.2013	A longtime champion of strengthening “Buy American” laws, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) visited Hoist Liftruck of Bedford Park today to join in the announcement that the company is beginning work on a $925 million U.S. Defense Department contract that will create hundreds of good-paying, middle-class jobs in the area. The contract is to supply the military with high-capacity forklifts and container handlers over the next five years. Hoist Liftruck and other American manufacturers are aided by laws that require the federal government to buy domestically produced goods, but today Rep. Lipinski will be introducing the “Buy American Improvement Act” to close loopholes in existing laws and make sure tax dollars employ American workers. “As a strong supporter of our local manufacturers, I could not be more proud of Hoist Liftruck. The company has demonstrated a tremendous commitment to creating jobs in our area. Hoist’s selection for this contract is another reminder of the great products that are being made locally and the tremendous potential for growing job creation in our communities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I know that everyone who works at Hoist is up for the task ahead of them, just as hundreds of thousands of workers across America are. That is why we must strengthen Buy American laws and close the loopholes that allow our tax dollars to employ foreign workers rather than Americans. Buying American is one of the fastest and most effective ways to create jobs and get the economy on track. My Buy American Improvement Act will ensure that the federal government is supporting American workers and buying products stamped ‘Made in U.S.A.’” Hoist Liftruck beat out 25 competitors to be chosen for a contract worth up to $925 million providing the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines with the company’s full line of material-handling equipment. The first orders for equipment were received this month and work has begun, with the expectation the company will add hundreds of jobs by the time the contract expires. Because all of the equipment components are made at Hoist’s Bedford Park factory or purchased from nearby suppliers, the contract with the federal government will create spin-off employment and positive ripple effects throughout the economy. Back in 2011, Rep. Lipinski successfully intervened on the company’s behalf when a $670,000 federal contract for four forklifts was improperly awarded to a South Korean company in violation of Buy American provisions. The assistance from Rep. Lipinski helped Hoist, one of the country’s last forklift manufacturers, grow its workforce from roughly 75 employees five years ago to almost 300 today. “As the owner of an accomplished U.S. manufacturing company, we take great pride in the revitalization of the Buy American Act. Having been awarded many federal government contracts under this instrumental law, most recently receiving a five-year contract from the Defense Department, Hoist Liftruck is able to increase our workforce and support jobs not just at Hoist, but through extension many other Midwest companies in our supply chain,” Hoist Liftruck President Marty Flaska said. “Congressman Lipinski has been a key figure in standing up for American manufacturing and on behalf of Hoist Liftruck and its employees, we thank him.” “Manufacturing always has played a vital role in the economy of Bedford Park and the surrounding communities. This contract for Hoist Liftruck, as well as the additional efforts to bolster our manufacturing base, will help keep these important jobs right here and create even more jobs,” said Bedford Park Village President David Brady. “I congratulate Hoist and thank Congressman Lipinski for his commitment to manufacturing and creating jobs in our communities.” For more than 75 years, the Buy American Act has supported American jobs by requiring the federal government to purchase goods made in America. But it has been gradually weakened by a series of exemptions and lax enforcement. In recent years, the Department of Defense granted more than 44,000 waivers of the law, sending approximately $13.8 billion taxpayer to foreign workers. Today, Rep. Lipinski is introducing the Buy American Improvement Act to close the loopholes. The bill restores the definition of an American-made product to one that contains at least 75 percent domestic material, up from the current 50 percent threshold. It also bans the practice of federal agencies splitting contracts to fall under the minimum dollar amount at which Buy American rules apply. Rep. Lipinski’s legislation is endorsed by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the National Council of Textile Organizations and the Alliance for American Manufacturing.
10.25.2013	As the state’s most senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has helped to pass the bipartisan Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). The Act will create jobs by rebuilding our water transportation system and includes many benefits to the region, such as allowing the City of Chicago to proceed with redeveloping a key section of Lake Michigan lakefront. Rep. Lipinski also cosponsored an amendment to the bill to help prevent the spread of Asian carp to the Great Lakes. “This legislation is an important step toward making long overdue repairs to our harbors, locks, and dams, while deauthorizing those facilities that no longer make sense to spend our scarce resources on. I am especially proud to have helped introduce an amendment aimed at eliminating the threat of damage to the fragile Great Lakes ecosystem and $7 billion fishing industry that could be caused by Asian carp,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am honored to have worked closely with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this bill that will give our inland waterways a much-needed boost, generate economic development and create jobs. WRRDA exemplifies what can happen when all sides get together, build consensus, and compromise in order to get things done on behalf of the American people.” Under the amendment Rep. Lipinski cosponsored, federal agencies would be required to partner with state and local governments to develop best practices to eliminate the spread of Asian carp through activities like contract fishing and pesticide application. Rep. Lipinski earlier helped to pass legislation that enabled the construction of a 13-mile system of barriers in his district to prevent the invasive species from being swept from the Des Plaines River and the I&M Canal to the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal during heavy rains and flooding. WRDDA authorizes projects to maintain the country’s ports and shipping infrastructure. It also sets environmental policy for the Army Corps of Engineers. The last time the legislation passed was in 2007, resulting in a backlog of projects and system maintenance. In Illinois alone, roughly $81 billion in goods are shipped through our waterways and ports, helping to support 48,195 jobs, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The bill, as a savings to taxpayers, deauthorizes $12 billion worth of old, inactive projects and facilities, including Dime Pier just south of Navy Pier, paving the way for the City of Chicago to rebuild that portion of the lakefront. The Senate passed its version of WRRDA in May. With passage in the House, both bills now head to a conference committee to be reconciled.
10.16.2013	President Obama has signed into law H.R. 3095, a bipartisan bill sponsored by U.S. Reps. Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) and Larry Bucshon (R-IN) that requires due process on Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) guidance regarding screening and testing for obstructive sleep apnea and other sleep disorders for drivers of commercial motor vehicles. The legislation passed unanimously in both the House and Senate and was referred to in Politico as a showcase for “…what just might be the most efficient Congress has been in years.” “While this issue has been a major one for the truck and bus industry, with the potential to result in expensive and damaging litigation, H.R. 3095 has always been about improving safety by following the formal rule-making process and including input from the major stakeholders,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues from across the aisle in sponsoring this legislation, moving it through Congress and passing it into law. This is how Washington should work.” “H.R. 3095 is a commonsense, responsible bill with the potential to save the trucking industry $1 billion that received bipartisan support in Congress,” Rep. Bucshon said.“FMSCA will now have to go through the proper rule-making process if it wants to weigh in on sleep apnea and incorporate the stakeholders, including the trucking community and medical professionals. I am very pleased to have worked with my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle to get H.R. 3095 passed into law.” “We were very pleased with the bipartisan approach to this bill — in a very partisan atmosphere — and are delighted the President quickly signed it into law,” said Bill Graves, President and CEO of the American Trucking Association.“It puts the Department of Transportation on the proper path. ATA is optimistic that any rule making on this issue will be collaborative and informed.” Timeline of H.R. 3095: · Sept. 12, 2013– H.R. 3095 is introducedwith the support of the American Trucking Association, American Bus Association, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, National School Transportation Association, Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association and United Motorcoach Association. · Sept. 19 – H.R. 3095 unanimously passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. · Sept. 26 –H.R. 3095 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 405 to 0. · Oct. 4 –H.R. 3095 passed the Senate with unanimous consent. · Oct. 15 –H.R. 3095 is signed into law by President Obama.
10.16.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has declared his support for the outline of a proposed agreement just announced by Senate leaders to reopen the government, raise the debt ceiling, and begin negotiations on a long-term budget agreement. The proposal would fund the government through Jan. 15, raise the debt limit until at least Feb. 7, start a formal conference committee to work out a budget agreement by Dec.15, and institute additional verification requirements to guarantee that people receiving federal subsidies to purchase health insurance under Obamacare meet eligibility rules. “The proposal that has been announced is not perfect, but it is a commonsense solution that not only ends the shutdown and keeps the country solvent by raising the debt ceiling, but starts a process and sets a deadline for a long-term budget agreement while making a sensible change in Obamacare to diminish fraud,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Since the shutdown started, I have been meeting daily with a bipartisan group of House members to develop a compromise to end this crisis. The plan we came up with eventually led to this agreement. “At this late hour, this bipartisan proposal offers the most credible and workable solution to this crisis which is threatening our fragile economy. Americans are understandably angry and frustrated at Washington. So am I. The bickering must end and we must do what is right for the American people: reach a long-term debt reduction agreement and help get people back to work.” The premise of the agreement requires the House and Senate to immediately form a conference committee and report out a budget agreement for FY14 and beyond by mid-December. This would mark the first time in four years that a conference committee reached an agreement on a budget resolution. The hope is that these negotiations, which Rep. Lipinski has been calling for the last six months, will lead to an agreement that ends the sequester and develops a sensible long-term debt reduction plan. The shutdown has cost the U.S. economy an estimated $300 million a day and denied millions of Americans access to federal services and resources. Important medical research and inspections programs critical to public safety have ground to a halt. If the federal government breaches the debt ceiling this week, there is the potential for a severe reaction by the global financial markets, threatening to throw the country into another recession.
10.16.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is currently accepting nomination request letters from young persons in the 3rd Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies for the classes entering in the summer of 2014. The service academies include: • Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. • Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. • West Point Military Academy, West Point, N.Y. • Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, N.Y. Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year they would enter the academy; be a United States citizen; have graduated from high school; be unmarried; have taken the ACT and/or SAT; and meet the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is Dec. 2, 2013. Nomination requests can be submitted to Joe Bonomo in Rep. Lipinski’s Chicago office at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, Ill., 60638. The phone number is (312) 886-0481.
10.14.2013	With the federal government shutdown stretching into its third week and the country’s economic health at risk without an increase to the debt ceiling, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today urged the House and Senate to take up a compromise plan he helped to negotiate within days of the shutdown taking effect. The bipartisan proposal, considered over the weekend in the Senate, offers a short-termspending plan to reopen the government and temporarily raises the debt ceilingwhile outlining a process for a longer-term budget deal. “The commonsense proposal I worked to put together in the House offers the most credible offer yet to protect our economy by ending the shutdown and keeping the country on track to pay its bills. It also provides a path for the House and Senate to develop a larger fiscal solution that includes a comprehensive budget deal that addresses our overall deficit problem. I was pleased to see a bipartisan group in the Senate throw its support behind a very similar proposal over the weekend. I believe this plan can and should emerge as the template for a solution,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I remain hopeful that all sides can compromise on this crisis created by Washington in the first place and do the right thing for the American people. Americans are angry at Washington, for good reason. But I continue to work to bring people together to solve problems and do what is right for the country. The time for political games is long over. We need to act.” To facilitate passage of the agreement, the medical device tax scheduled to take effect next year as part of Obamacare would be repealed. The shutdown that started Oct. 1 has cost the U.S. economy an estimated $300 million a day and denied millions of American access to federal services and resources. Important medical research and inspections programs critical to public safety have ground to a halt. If the federal government breaches the debt ceiling later this week, there is the potential for a huge drag on the economy and a severe reaction by the global financial markets, threatening to throw the country into another recession.
10.10.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today stood side by side with more than 50 Republican and Democratic lawmakers in the No Labels coalition to urge congressional leadership and President Obama to stop fighting and start fixing the crisis that has shut down the federal government and threatens to send the country into default, causing additional harm to our economy. The group joined in solidarity to encourage everyone in Washington to work together to end the destructive politics that has led to gridlock and is hurting our nation. “The solution on Day 10 of the shutdown is the same as it was on Day 1: Put the best interest of Americans and the well-being of our nation first. There are no winners in this endless bickering and the American people are losing,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am committed to working with all sides so we can get the shutdown and debt ceiling impasse behind us and start working on our real problems, such as solving our long-term debt and putting people to work. I am proud to stand with my No Labels colleagues today to deliver this message loud and clear.” Since the shutdown went into effect on Oct. 1, Rep. Lipinski has been meeting almost daily with a bipartisan group of legislators, seeking to find common ground and arrive at a solution that gets the government up and running and raises the debt ceiling to avoid seriously damaging the financial markets. The longer the country goes without a solution, the more real-life consequences there are for millions of Americans. Rep. Lipinski has heard from businesses in his district concerned about having to send workers home because the government inspectors they rely on to function are being furloughed. He has also heard from constituents unable to get new Social Security cards, others who can't file their taxes on time due to the IRS closing its doors and workers at Argonne National Laboratory who are worried about their paychecks if the shutdown continues much longer. Today's event was organized by the No Labels coalition, a group of Democrats and Republicans committed to working across the aisle to find solutions to the nation's problems. In January, Rep. Lipinski was introduced as one of No Label's inaugural 24 congressional Problem Solvers. Since then, Rep. Lipinski has helped to recruit additional members, with the coalition more than tripling in size to 87 members. In July, No Labels unveiled its Make Government Work! legislative agenda. No Labels continues to meet regularly to encourage cooperation when confronting issues facing Congress and the country.
10.04.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski this summer toured the Bedford Park-based Archer Wire International Corp.'s facility in Tinley Park, where they make facemasks for football helmets On the second annual National Manufacturing Day, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) praised our nation’s manufacturers and their hard-working employees for playing a vital role in our national economy and keeping good-paying jobs in our local communities. Rep. Lipinski earlier in this Congress introduced a bill, H.R. 2447, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, to develop a national manufacturing competiveness strategy that will identify and address industry challenges in order to help create jobs and ensure the United States remains the world’s leading manufacturer. “I wish to salute all of our manufacturers and their workers on National Manufacturing Day. Manufacturing is the linchpin of our economy and the bedrock of our middle class. I’ve understood that since my days growing up on the Southwest Side surrounded by manufacturing plants. Today I take great pride in visiting as many manufacturers as I can in my district to not only learn about the products they make, but also about the challenges they face, from the so-called skills gap to currency manipulation and Customs evasion by foreign competitors,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The importance of a healthy manufacturing base cannot be overstated, but our manufacturers and their workers are confronted with a difficult environment on a daily basis. We must do more to help.” America has a long and proud manufacturing history. However, since the 1970s the number of manufacturing jobs has been shrinking, from 20 million in 1979 to fewer than 12 million today. The hemorrhaging of jobs has contributed to the stagnation of middle-class wages – since 2000, the median household income, after it’s been adjusted for inflation, has fallen by $4,787. National Manufacturing Day is organized by several national manufacturing associations, as well manufacturers themselves, to draw attention to the industry through more than 800 events nationwide. Students, teachers, parents, job seekers and other local community members are invited to open houses designed to showcase modern manufacturing technology and careers. More than 70 events are planned in Illinois. For more information on National Manufacturing Day, visit www.mfgday.com.
10.03.2013	With the federal government shutdown reaching its third day and no end in sight, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined a bipartisan group of House members today in offering a path to getting the government up and running again. At a joint appearance with more than 20 Democratic and Republican colleagues, Rep. Lipinski urged the passage of a continuing resolution that extends current funding levels for six months and provides both sides the opportunity to sit down and get the country’s fiscal house in order for the long term. “This proposal is not my first choice and it is far from ideal. Both sides should have sat down and worked out a full-year funding bill and a long-term debt reduction plan that eliminates the sequester, while also agreeing to raise the debt ceiling. But if the ideal is not possible in the legislative process, it is critical to work together to get the best possible outcome for the American people. Insisting on one position and refusing to compromise hurts our nation, as we see happening with this shutdown,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Today I am happy to join with a bipartisan group of members who understand this and are offering a credible, commonsense solution to reopen the federal government. This solution is not perfect, but it is a good-faith effort to advance the common good of our nation. Once funding is restored, Congress and the President should immediately sit down and get to work on raising the debt ceiling and addressing our long-term debt problem. Then we can return to other issues, especially the most important business of fixing the economy and getting people back to work. It is time for bold, commonsense action that prioritizes the good of the American people, not politics.” To facilitate passage the group is calling for a fully offset repeal of the medical device tax scheduled to take effect next year. Since it took effect Oct. 1, the shutdown has cost the U.S. economy an estimated $300 million a day and resulted in real-life consequence for millions of Americans. In Rep. Lipinski’s district, his office has heard from constituents unable to get new Social Security cards and or file their taxes on time due to the IRS closing its doors, as well as from small businesses concerned about their operations continuing because the government inspectors they rely on to function are being furloughed. On Wednesday, the congressman assisted a group of veterans with Honor Flight Chicago, accompanied by friends and family, to visit the World War II Memorial in Washington D.C., despite the threat of being turned away by the National Park Service due to the shutdown.
10.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) made sure that 90 veterans with Honor Flight Chicago who departed this morning from Midway Airport got to visit the National World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C., ignoring National Park Service warnings that the trip would have to be cancelled and they would be turned away because of the ongoing shutdown of the federal government. Joining Rep. Lipinski in thanking these heroes for their service and accompanying them to the memorial was former Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson. “The World War II Memorial belongs to the brave men and women who put their lives on the line and courageously fought for our country and protected our freedoms. Denying these veterans, as well as their friends and family, access to the memorial and ruining their day because of the bickering and gridlock in Washington would have been unconscionable,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I was proud that Secretary Nicholson could join me on this special day made all the more memorable by the determination and patriotism of these honorable veterans.” Honor Flight Chicago has made 52 trips to Washington, providing World War II veterans with an all-expenses-paid day filled with honor, remembrance and celebration, including the ceremony at the World War II Memorial on the National Mall. Southwest Airlines donates the cost of the round-trip flight between Midway Airport and Washington. Today’s trip will return to Chicago at 8:45 p.m., concluding with a celebration at the airport for our returning heroes. “I’m always in awe of our World War II vets, but the spirit and resolve they demonstrated today was extremely moving,” Rep. Lipinski said. “If only members of Congress and the administration could follow their example and make sacrifices for the good of the country, this pointless shutdown would come to an end in no time.”
10.01.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced that his district offices in Chicago, Oak Lawn, Orland Park and Lockport, as well as his congressional office in Washington, D.C., will remain open while the federal government is shut down. Throughout the duration of the shutdown, constituents are welcomed and encouraged to contact Rep. Lipinski’s offices should they have any constituent needs that must be addressed. “Despite the inability of Congress to reach an agreement that keeps the government funded, I am committed to keeping my offices open to continue to provide constituent services and assistance on federal matters,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Please contact my offices or visit lipinski.house.gov if you have any questions on the how the shutdown impacts you. I am hopeful that this impasse can be resolved quickly so Washington can work on the issues that truly matter, such as getting our fiscal house in order, creating jobs for the middle class, and improving our local communities.” The shutdown, however, will have an impact several other federal offices and functions: • Social Security checks still will be issued, though there could be delays in processing new applications and other paperwork, such change-of-address forms. • Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries and providers should not be affected, but new applicants likely will not be processed or able to enroll. • The Veterans Administration’s medical services and facilities will not have a disruption in their services. Other VA services, including call centers and claims appeals, likely will be impacted. • Mail delivery will continue as normal. • Passport and visa applications will not be handled. • Military personnel will continue to be paid. • Air traffic controllers will remain on the job, as will airport security provided by the Transportation Security Administration. • In general, all federal properties will be closed to the public and non-essential personal. Essential maintenance and security services will continue. The federal courthouse in Chicago will remain open for business for approximately 10 business days. On or around Oct. 15, the situation will be reassessed and additional guidance provide. • For those making trips to Washington, D.C., the Capitol Visitor Center, all federal museums and federal buildings will be closed. Once the shutdown ends, Rep. Lipinski’s office will again be able to assist with scheduling tours. • Most federal department and agency websites will not be updated with the most current information available. • For detailed information about specific impacts at federal agencies and departments, visit www.usa.gov/shutdown.shtml or call 1-800-FED-INFO (1-800-333-4636) Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Central time.
09.30.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) this afternoon issued the following statement on the prospects of avoiding a shutdown of the federal government later tonight: “With the federal government poised to shut down due to yet another crisis manufactured in Washington, I share in the frustration and anger of the American people. Before it’s too late and a government shutdown causes unnecessary harm to our already-too-slow economic recovery, Congress today needs to act. First, Congress should pass a short-term continuing resolution to keep the government running. Then congressional leaders from both parties need tosit down and work out a commonsense agreement that funds the federal government for fiscal year 2014, raises the debt ceilingand deals with our long-term debt problem. All three of these items should be addressed together in a bipartisan manner, just as when I helped lead a bipartisan group of members who introduced a budget based on the Simpson-Bowles Deficit Reduction Commission recommendations in 2012. When this is completed, Congress and the President should get back to work on job creation, along with fixing Obamacare so that it works for all Americans. I am hopeful, despite this late hour and continued bickering, that Congress will do the responsible thing for the good of the country.”
09.23.2013	In his role as founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) organized a roundtable discussion for fellow members of Congress and the U.S.-Poland Business Council. Held in Washington D.C., the event focused on enhancing trade and promoting commercial relations between the U.S. and Poland in order to strengthen the relationship between the two countries. Joining Rep. Lipinski in leading the discussion on Sept. 19 was fellow caucus co-chair Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), as well as caucus members Rep. Mike Quiqley (IL-5) and Rep. William Enyert (IL-12). “Poland is a great ally and a friend to the United States. Informative dialogues such as the one with the U.S. Poland Business Council help me to understand the challenges American businesses face in Poland and what we can do to remove those barriers,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I look forward to holding more events that make the strong relationship between the United States and Poland even stronger.” Topping the list of concerns voiced by many at the roundtable was the effort to have Poland included in the Visa Waiver Program. Rep. Lipinski has been a leader on this issue in Congress and is cosponsoring bipartisan legislation in the House to make Poland the 38th country — and 31st European country — in the program. “Poland is one of our most reliable allies and it's only right that its citizens have the same travel privileges as all of our close allies. For the more than 100,000 Polish-Americans in my district, this issue is about having friends and family attend weddings, baptisms, and other important family events,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Our economy only stands to benefit by allowing millions to visit and spend their money here. But at its core, this legislation is about fairness for a close partner and friend. I am committed to seeing this bill passed in the House so we can finally make these overdue reforms.”
09.19.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) cosponsored and introduced a landmark bipartisan bill today to protect freedom of conscience on the issue of marriage. Sponsored by Raúl Labrador (ID-1), the bill – H.R. 3133, the Marriage and Religious Freedom Act – would prohibit discrimination through the federal tax code against individuals or institutions that exercise religious conscience regarding marriage as the union of one man and one woman. Joining Rep. Lipinski as original cosponsors are Rep. Steve Scalise (LA-1) and Rep. Mike McIntyre (NC-7). "The Marriage and Religious Freedom Act would help preserve the most basic rights of all Americans: the right to religious liberty and the rights of conscience," Rep. Lipinski said. "The idea that individuals, churches and institutions could be penalized for not endorsing a practice in opposition to their core beliefs goes against the fundamental principles espoused by our founding fathers. I ask my colleagues in the House to act on this legislation swiftly to discourage the potential discrimination against those who simply choose to exercise their rights as Americans." Most religious institutions fall within the 501(c) portion of the U.S. tax code, which allows for tax exemption. Under the Marriage and Religious Freedom Act, no individual or institution which celebrates and defines marriage as between one man and one woman would be denied or lose exemption from taxation provided for under federal law. “Regardless of your ideology, we can all agree about the importance of religious liberty in America,” said Rep. Labrador. “Our bill will protect freedom of conscience for those who believe marriage is the union of one man and one woman. This is not a Republican or Democrat issue. As President Obama said, ‘Americans hold a wide range of views’ on marriage and ‘maintaining our nation’s commitment to religious freedom’ is ‘vital.’ We agree. “Our bill will ensure tolerance for individuals and organizations that affirm traditional marriage, protecting them from adverse federal action. I’m proud to be joined by my colleagues in introducing this bill, and will strongly advocate for its passage.” “I commend Congressman Raul Labrador for bringing forth this bill and leading on this important issue. As we’ve seen with the IRS scandals, nonprofit organizations and those who support them may be targeted and punished for their beliefs and principles,” said Rep. Scalise. “Furthermore, the Supreme Court’s ruling on marriage may embolden those in government who want to impose their views of marriage on faith-based organizations. We need this strong legislation to protect freedom of conscience for those who believe marriage is the union of one man and one woman. Raul’s bill does exactly that, ensuring respect and tolerance for those who affirm traditional marriage.” “It is critical that institutions which hold the fundamental belief that marriage is between one man and one woman be protected in their convictions,” said Rep. McIntyre. “The Marriage and Religious Freedom Act will ensure that this right is protected, and they are not penalized for their beliefs and values.” The Marriage and Religious Freedom Act has over 60 original cosponsors. They include Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) and Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO). The bill has been endorsed by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the National Organization for Marriage, Heritage Action, Family Research Council, Focus on the Family, The Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, and Concerned Women for America.
09.16.2013	To honor a longtime Chicago firefighter who lost his life in the line of duty and to pay tribute to all first responders, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced H.R. 3085, a bill to rename the post office in Chicago’s Mount Greenwood community after Chicago Fire Capt. Herbert “Herbie” Johnson. The 32-year veteran of the Chicago Fire Department and resident of Chicago’s Morgan Park community died last year while fighting a house fire on the city’s South Side. “Capt. Herbie Johnson, like so many of our first responders, served heroically and selflessly. His passing and the outpouring from the community where he lived and served was tremendously moving and inspiring,” Rep. Lipinski said. “My legislation to rename the Mount Greenwood Post Office makes sure that he will never be forgotten. I am proud and honored to have worked with Capt. Johnson’s family, friends, and brothers and sisters in the fire department on this lasting tribute to someone who made the ultimate sacrifice protecting others from harm. He was a true ‘hero’ in every sense of the word.” An outgoing, caring and dedicated public servant, Capt. Johnson was popular and well-liked throughout the Mount Greenwood, Beverly, and Morgan Park communities on Chicago’s Southwest Side. Almost every year he drove the fire truck down Western Avenue for the South Side Irish St. Patrick’s Day Parade. In 2007, he received the state’s highest award for firefighters, the Illinois Medal of Honor, for rescuing several children from a burning apartment. On Nov. 2, 2012, Capt. Johnson died while battling flames in the attic of a two-story home in Chicago’s Englewood community. He was 54 years old. Capt. Johnson was survived by his wife of 28 years, Susan, two sons, Thomas and Michael, and a daughter, Laurie. Services at St. Rita of Cascia Shrine Chapel drew thousands of mourners over two days. Following the tragedy, Rep. Lipinski’s office reached out to the family, neighborhood officials and leaders, as well as the Chicago Fire Department, to discuss commemorating Johnson’s sacrifice and the bravery displayed each day by the men and women in our police and fire departments. Rep. Lipinski’s legislation, cosponsored by the other 17 members from Illinois in the House of Representatives, would designate the Mount Greenwood Post Office, 3349 W. 111th St., in Chicago, the “Captain Herbert Johnson Memorial Post Office Building.” “I would like to thank Congressman Lipinski for arranging this incredible honor for Herbie and our family. This neighborhood was very important to Herbie – we have lived here for 27 years and raised our children here. Many of Herbie’s brothers and sisters live here. I hope that our future grandchildren will grow up here, too,” said his widow, Susan Johnson. “Herbie was an ordinary man who loved doing his job. He had an extraordinary personality that will never be forgotten. Every day, when we get our mail from ‘Herbie’s post office,’ this will remind us that his spirit lives on and that he continues to be a hero.” Capt. Johnson came from a family of public servants. Three of his brothers are Chicago police officers. A sister is a retired Chicago police officer. Another brother is a Chicago firefighter. Capt. Johnson served in almost every Chicago neighborhood as a firefighter, but his heart belonged to the Southwest Side. “Herbie Johnson was a great friend, an admired and respected leader in the Chicago Fire Department, and a beloved figure in our neighborhood,” said 19th Ward Ald. Matt O’Shea. “Thanks to Congressman Lipinski and this legislation, Herbie's incredible heart, quick wit, and unique sense of humor will be in our hearts and minds forever.” Capt. Johnson was active in many causes dear to the Chicago Fire Department. In addition to serving as a mentor to many firefighters, Johnson taught more than 1,000 recruits as an instructor at the Robert J. Quinn Fire Academy. After the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, he volunteered with the rescue efforts in New York City. He also was known to cook for various charity events and offer his time at a camp founded by a friend for young burn victims — the “Bucks for Burn Camp.” “It is extremely difficult whenever we lose a member while in the performance of their duty. Brother Herbie Johnson died while doing the job that he loved. His death, however, was a huge loss for his family, his friends and his neighborhood,” said Tom Ryan, President of the Chicago Firefighters Union Local 2. “The naming of the Mount Greenwood post office in Herbie's honor will leave a lasting tribute to the legacy of a man who always put the happiness and safety of others ahead of his own.” A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s bill and a letter of support from the International Association of Fire Fighters are attached.
09.13.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has awarded a $5.1 million grant for the reconstruction of two airplane taxiways at Midway Airport. Both taxiways have reached the end of their useful life. “Midway Airport serves a vital role in national air travel and our regional economy. This investment will help to ensure that the airport is operating as safely and efficiently as possible,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I will continue working to see that the federal government keeps investing in Midway.” The grant is through the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program, which provides funding for projects that improve the safety and efficiency of airports in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS). Rep. Lipinski is the state’s most senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and sits on the Aviation Subcommittee. His district includes Midway Airport. Rep. Lipinski previously helped to secure $30 million from the FAA for the installation of arrestor beds in Midway’s runway safety areas to stop aircraft from overshooting the airfield. Earlier this year, the congressman successfully fought to block plans for the overnight closure of the airport’s control tower due to federal sequestration.
09.10.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he is cosponsoring a bipartisan resolution calling on the President to ask the United Nations to establish a war crimes tribunal to hold all sides accountable for atrocities committed in Syria. This is in response to reports of not only chemical weapons use by the Assad regime, but also torture, rape, and summary executions committed by both government and rebel forces fighting in the country’s civil war. In signing on as a cosponsor, Rep. Lipinski did not rule out future United States intervention if diplomatic efforts are not successful in Syria. “We have all been shocked and horrified by the images of the violence taking place in Syria. The fact that children have been subjected to some of the worst of this violence cannot and should not be tolerated,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Clearly, all perpetrators must be held accountable for the atrocities that have happened and could potentially continue to take place. I believe a war crimes tribunal, with the full weight of the international community behind it, needs to be formed to not only bring the guilty to justice, but also deter future atrocities in Syria and elsewhere.” The “Immediate Establishment of Syrian War Crimes Tribunal Resolution” urges President Obama to use the voice and vote of the United States at the United Nations to promote the establishment of a Syrian War Crimes Tribunal. The tribunal would investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of mass atrocities, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, regardless of whether they are members of the Syrian government or opposition factions in Syria such as the al-Nusra Front, which is accused of attacks on Christians and others. U.S. Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-4) is the chief sponsor of the resolution. A copy is attached.
09.09.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and LaGrange Village President Tom Livingston announced today that the LaGrange Fire Department has received a $162,356 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to refill for up to two years a firefighter position that had been lost to retirement. “One of my top priorities as congressman is helping to make sure our communities have the resources they need to adequately staff for first responders,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This grant allows the Village of LaGrange to fill a valuable position in the fire department and continue to provide top-notch service to area residents and businesses.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $320 million to fire departments to expand the number of firefighters available to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public with respect to fire and all other hazards. “This grant provides vital resources to LaGrange's first-responder front line in times of limited local budgets,” Livingston said. “Our community will measurably benefit from Congressman Lipinski’s leadership in public safety and infrastructure investments.” For more information on the SAFER Program, visit http://www.fema.gov/staffing-adequate-fire-emergency-response-grants.
09.06.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the state’s senior representative on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the City of Chicago’s decision to drop its plans to privatize Midway Airport: “On Thursday, the City of Chicago announced that it was no longer going forward with plans to privatize Midway Airport. I applaud Mayor Emanuel for halting the privatization attempt at this point. “Once on the brink of closing, Midway has become one of world’s finest airports, playing a vital role in national air travel as well as serving as an economic engine for the Southwest Side of Chicago and surrounding communities. As the congressman representing the airport and someone who grew up less than a mile from it, I have had my reservations about any plan that could adversely impact Midway’s operations and nearby neighborhoods and communities. I have shared the concerns of many Midway neighbors, employees, and travelers who feared that privatizing the airport could have negative consequences, such as increased noise in the neighborhoods, higher parking and concession fees, and the potential loss of jobs for workers who rely on the airport to support their families. The mayor said that this privatization plan would have included protections for the neighborhood and the flying public. If there is going to be another attempt to privatize Midway in the future, I will insist that such protections are written into any agreement. “Midway Airport is a well-run facility that serves the neighborhood, the region, and almost 10 million passengers a year. Whether it is bringing home $30 million to add safety devices to the runways, fighting to prevent overnight tower closures, or working for more soundproofing in the surrounding communities, I will continue to work to make Midway even better for everyone.”
08.31.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on the President announcing he will seek Congressional approval for the use of force in Syria: I am happy that the President heeded the call I made - along with a large number of my House colleagues - that he consult with Congress before launching any military action in Syria. There is a serious humanitarian crisis in Syria and there is a threat that the conflict spreads. And the use of chemical weapons is a serious violation of prohibitions against the use of such weapons. But before I would approve the use of force I need to understand not only the proof of chemical weapons use, but also what military actions the President is planning and what the risks and benefits of these actions are in the short term and the long term.
08.30.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on the possibility of United States involvement in Syria and the need to involve Congress on a plan of action: “Like most Americans, I have been alarmed by the horrific events that have occurred and continue to occur in Syria. We know that as many as 100,000 people have been killed and 2 million refugees — half of them children — are residing in neighboring countries, potentially destabilizing the entire region. Now we suspect that the Assad regime has used chemical weapons against the Syrian people. The situation calls out for attention. “But before there is any American intervention in Syria, the Obama administration must have a plan of action and include all members of Congress in consultations before that plan is carried out. Contrary to some erroneous media reports, there are only a small number of Congressional members who have had the opportunity to discuss this situation with the administration. This week, I joined more than 140 of my House colleagues from both side of the aisle in urging the President to consult with Congress before taking any action in Syria. “Many Americans are rightfully concerned about involvement in Syria, as am I. It is imperative for the President to address not only Congress but also the American public about his plans for Syria and why he believes these steps are necessary.”
08.23.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), a longtime supporter of creating more economic development and jobs around the country’s national laboratories, kicked off the inaugural “Doing Business with Argonne and Fermilab” event at Argonne National Laboratory near Lemont. The daylong event to make small businesses and start-up firms aware of the business opportunities with Argonne and Fermilab drew more than 140 people representing 90 local companies from the area, including several from the Third Congressional District. “We are extremely fortunate to have not just one, but two of the country’s finest Department of Energy national laboratories in our region: Argonne, which is located in my district, and Fermilab. As a senior Democrat on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee and the ranking member of the Research and Technology Subcommittee, I am committed to strengthening these research labs and making them even stronger economic engines for the area,” Lipinski said. “Unfortunately, not many people know about the business opportunities at these labs. I am hopeful that events such as this will help small business owners and start-up companies learn more about the wide array of opportunities available at both facilities. Our national labs play an essential role in fulfilling the country’s science and research needs, but they can only be successful by having strong relationships with local businesses.” The workshop and similar events in the future will increase awareness of the Argonne and Fermilab resources available to local entrepreneurs as they launch new products. Meanwhile, these events would also allow the labs to expand on the roughly $200 million they invest each year on contracts for goods and services from area businesses, spurring economic growth and generating new jobs in the surrounding communities. Sessions held throughout the day focused on procurement, technology development, and commercialization. Long a proponent of encouraging the transfer of cutting-edge research into new products, companies and jobs, Rep. Lipinski earlier this monthcosponsored legislation to accelerate the commercialization of federally-funded research at national labs, universities, and research facilities. The bill will assist innovators and entrepreneurs in taking a promising idea into the marketplace, where it can create more jobs and economic activity at the local level. Joining Rep. Lipinski to launch the new initiative at the Aug. 21 event were U.S. Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11), whose district also includes Argonne, and U.S. Rep. Randy Hultgren (IL-14), who represents Fermilab.
08.22.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the Western Springs Department of Fire and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) has received a $64,000 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to purchase four to six new thermal imaging cameras so firefighters can better see flames and trapped victims in smoke-filled rooms. The grant also will allow the fire protection district to purchase specialized washing machines and dryers to clean gear that has been used to respond to fires and incidents involving hazardous materials. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe. Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety and cut costs at the Western Springs Department of Fire and EMS, providing better service to area residents and businesses.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. “We appreciate Rep. Lipinski’s assistance with this grant that will allow us to upgrade equipment vital to the safety of the men and women of Western Springs Department of Fire and EMS,” said Western Springs Chief Patrick Kenny. “We are thankful for the congressman’s work on behalf of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and look forward to continuing to provide the best service and care possible to our community.” For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
08.22.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he will host a Town Hall Meeting on Sept. 5 at 7 p.m. at the Willow Springs Senior and Community Center, 8156 S. Archer Ave., in Willow Springs. At the Town Hall Meeting, Third Congressional District residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and give their thoughts on federal issues. Staff from the congressman’s office will be available 30 minutes before the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. “I want to personally extend an invitation to the residents of the Third Congressional District to my upcoming Town Hall Meeting. As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This event will be a fantastic opportunity for you to get help on federal programs and to hear about the wide array of constituent services my office provides. It is my privilege to serve you. I am eager to offer my assistance and hear your ideas.” The date and time for the Town Hall Meeting are as follows: Thursday, Sept. 5 7 p.m. Willow Springs Senior & Community Center 8156 S. Archer Ave. Willow Springs, Ill. 60480 For more information, call 312-866-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.govand www.facebook.com/repdanlipinski.
08.16.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on reports the National Security Agency repeatedly violated privacy rules and sought to keep from disclosing the violations: “I am extremely troubled by the latest reports alleging the National Security Agency repeatedly violated the privacy rights of Americans through the use of unauthorized surveillance. I am especially disturbed that the NSA, in violation of the law, potentially has actively sought to avoid disclosing these abuses, even if they are unintentional. If these reports are indeed true, they further point out the need to reform these security programs so all three branches of the federal government are actively involved in oversight and compliance so Americans can be assured their fundamental rights as citizens are not being violated. While I will always believe it is essential to protect the nation from terrorism, these disclosures about the NSA’s practices only undermine the country’s trust of those efforts. As an elected representative in Congress, I will be taking a hard look at these programs and making sure the necessary safeguards are in place to avoid abuse.”
08.14.2013	ROMEOVILLE — U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined today by Will County Executive Larry Walsh, Romeoville Mayor John Noak, and other village and airport officials to announce the start of the second and final phase of a $4.2 million runway reconstruction currently underway at Lewis University Airport. Both phases of the runway project, which will create 72 construction jobs and attract economic growth throughout the region, were made possible through legislation Rep. Lipinski helped to write and pass as the state’s senior member on the House of Representatives Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “I’m extremely pleased to have worked with local officials and Lewis University Airport so we could bring this important runway reconstruction to its finish,” said Rep. Lipinski, who sits on the Aviation Subcommittee. “These improvements are creating good construction jobs right now, but the new runway will only serve to enhance the airport’s capacity and generate more economic opportunity for local communities far into the future. I will always recognize the importance of Lewis University Airport to the region and will keep working with the federal government so we continue to invest in its future.” Through a $2.5 million grant made possible by the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill the congressman was instrumental in passing last year, work started this spring on the badly needed reconstruction of the eastern half of Runway 9-27, one of two runways at the airport and originally built in 1989. The FAA recently awarded an additional $1.3 million so construction can start within the next few weeks on the 5,700-foot runway's western half. That project also includes the installation of new airfield lighting to improve safety at the airport. The new runway, anticipated to be completed in its entirety by this winter, will allow Lewis University Airport to better accommodate larger aircraft and future aviation growth, creating additional jobs and business development in the region. The state and the Joliet Regional Port District each are contributing $211,311 to the project. “Lewis University Airport is one of the top selling points for attracting jobs to Will County, one of the fastest-growing areas in the state and the country,” Will County Executive Larry Walsh said. “These improvements are much needed and appreciated. I wish to thank Congressman Lipinski for his work in Washington to see that the airport continues to generate economic development and play a vital role in Will County transportation.” “We greatly appreciate Congressman Lipinski’s leadership in helping to make these improvements possible,” Romeoville Mayor John Noak said. “Lewis University Airport is an economic engine not just for the Village of Romeoville, but for the entire region. This project ensures that the airport will continue to draw jobs and businesses to our communities for years to come.” Owned and operated by the Joliet Regional Port District, the Lewis University Airport accommodates more than 100,000 arrivals and departures annually. The airport serves numerous Fortune 500 companies and corporate aircraft, as well as Aviation Department at Lewis University, the only college aviation program in Illinois with an airport on its campus. Joining Rep. Lipinski at today’s event were Joliet Regional Port District Board Chairman Dan Vera, along with members of the Romeoville Village Board and officials from Lewis University.
08.12.2013	On Monday, Aug. 19, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski's (IL-3) office in Lockport’s Central Square will be holding extended office hours to coincide with the Weekly Farmers Market and Cruisin’ Lockport Classic Car Show. Lipinski opened his office earlier this year at 222 E. 9th St., Suite 109, when he began representing Lockport and the surrounding area in the U.S. House of Representatives. On Aug. 19, the office will be open until 8 p.m. to provide people who are attending the farmers market and car show with the opportunity to get help and information from the congressman's staff. Regular office hours are Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. “Constituent service is an important part of my job. I want to make it as easy as possible for people to get the help they need or to express their opinions about federal issues,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Not only will these extended hours provide a convenient opportunity for people to stop by and visit my office, but I am hopeful that constituents who don't know about my Central Square office will learn about it for the first time.” For more information on Rep. Lipinski’s constituent services, visit lipinski.house.gov or call 815-838-1990. Details on the farmers market and car show can be found at cityoflockport.net.
08.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today introduced the Forty Hours Is Full Time Act of 2013, H.R. 2988, a bill that would take away an unintended incentive created in Obamacare for employers to cut the hours of part-time employees. H.R. 2988 would change the healthcare law’s definition of “full-time employment” from 30 hours a week to 40 hours a week, the standard work week widely recognized in law and by employers, when applying the employer mandate. “Even with the Administration’s recent decision to delay the Obamacare employer mandate for one year, we already know some employers are preparing to meet the law’s guidelines by slashing workers’ hours and forcing them to work 29 hours a week or less. This is reducing the take-home pay for millions of Americans at a time when they can least afford it,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Forty Hours Is Full Time Act keeps the usual 40 hour full-time work week in place without sacrificing the goal of providing affordable, quality healthcare to Americans.” Under Obamacare, employers with more than 50 full-time employees risk having to pay a fine if they do not offer health insurance to their workers. According to a recent University of California Berkeley Labor Center study, as many as 2.3 million Americans, mostly hourly workers in the restaurant, nursing home, retail and service industries, would see their hours cut as their employers adapt to the new rules. A July 28 editorial in the Chicago Tribune pointed out that the 30-hour provision would not only incentivize businesses to increasingly turn to a part-time work force working fewer hours, but put greater strain on the economy and place more of a burden on taxpayers to pay for a greater share of their health insurance under Obamacare. The Forty Hours is Full Time Act of 2013 mirrors a bipartisan bill crafted in the Senate by Sen. Susan Collins (ME) and Sen. Joe Donnelly (IN). Supporters of Rep. Lipinski’s bill include the Food Marketing Institute, the Retail Industry Leaders Association, the International Franchise Association, the National Restaurant Association and Dunkin Brands. “The National Restaurant Association and our members appreciate Congressman Lipinski’s introduction of the Forty Hours is Full Time Act in the House, signaling bipartisan and bicameral support for addressing the definition of full-time employee in the healthcare law,” said Scott DeFife, executive vice president of policy and government affairs for the National Restaurant Association. “The current definition at 30 hours is not aligned with current workforce practices and does not reflect the desire of restaurant and food service employees for flexible work schedules. Only Congress can address this challenge in implementing the law.” “I commend Rep. Lipinski for introducing this legislation that will provide important relief from the Affordable Care Act’s mandates to both franchisees and small business owners who are responsible for creating one out of every eight private sector jobs in America, while allowing them to grow their businesses and provide flexibility to their employees,” said Steve Caldeira, president and CEO of the International Franchise Association. # # #
07.31.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on the bipartisan legislation regarding student loan interest rates that overwhelmingly passed the House: “I am glad that Congress finally put politics aside and did the right thing for students and their families. As a former educator, I value the importance of a college education and understand how expensive it has become. While not perfect, this legislation provides some financial certainty heading into the fall. And by doing away with the annual exercise of having Congress determine rates from year to year, it offers some certainty for student loan interest rates in subsequent years. Making college more affordable and attainable will help our nation's long-term prosperity and help many young people attain the American Dream.”
07.31.2013	As part of his ongoing commitment to reining in the cost of healthcare, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today introduced H.R. 2853, the Hospital Price Transparency Act of 2013. The bipartisan bill would require hospitals to publicly disclose the prices they charge for their most common medical procedures, allowing consumers to make more informed choices, encouraging competition among providers, and ultimately leading to lower healthcare costs for the public. “We already know the prices charged by hospitals for even the most basic services can vary dramatically from one hospital to the next. When patients don’t know the prices that hospitals charge they cannot make informed choices, and without price competition there is no incentive for hospitals to hold down the prices they charge,” Rep. Lipinski said. “You wouldn’t think of getting work done on your car or your home without first knowing the cost of the repairs. Why should your own personal healthcare be any different? This bill brings some much-needed transparency to the healthcare field and arms consumers with the information they need to make their own decisions regarding where they seek treatment.” This spring, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) publicly released data showing the “sticker” prices hospitals charge Medicare patients for common medical procedures, as well as the lower amounts they actually receive after negotiating with the Medicare program. Rep. Lipinski’s legislation would take these disclosures a step further by requiring hospitals to release the average rates negotiated with top insurers for the 100 most common services provided to insured patients. The average prices charged to uninsured patients also would be disclosed. The information would be available via a consumer website maintained by HHS. Through this legislation, consumers will be given a better picture of the discounted, negotiated rates hospitals are actually charging. With insurance companies requiring patients to pay more costs out-of-pocket, this information would become essential for planning and budgeting for healthcare expenses. U.S. Rep. Markwayne Mullin (OK-2) is the bill’s primary Republican cosponsor. “The lack of price transparency in healthcare stifles competition in the marketplace, promotes waste and frustrates patients who increasingly are being asked to shoulder more responsibility for their medical costs,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Hospital Price Transparency Act would bring some common sense to a process the public far too often finds mysterious and confusing.”
07.24.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland and a longtime advocate for strengthening relations between Poland and the United States, issued the following statement today on the Senate Appropriations Committee passing the 2014 Homeland Security bill that includes language permitting Poland to join the Visa Waiver Program. The language mirrors bipartisan legislation introduced in the House by Rep. Lipinski and others. “I applaud Sen. Mark Kirk and Sen. Barbara Mikulski for their hard work in getting this measure passed in the Senate Appropriations Committee and reaching another important milestone in allowing Poland to become the 38th country in the Visa Waiver Program. Poland is one of our most reliable allies and it's only right that its citizens have the same travel privileges as all of our close allies. For the more than 100,000 Polish-Americans in my district, this issue is about having friends and relatives being able to attend weddings, baptisms and join in other family functions. Our local economy only stands to benefit by allowing millions to visit and spend their money here. I am committed to seeing this legislation passed in the House so we can finally make these overdue reforms.”
07.19.2013	A bill cosponsored by U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) to call the Interstate 70 bridge over the Mississippi River the “Stan Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge” was signed into law by the President on July 12. Rep. Lipinski, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, helped spearhead the effort to name the bridge after the St. Louis Cardinal great and Polish-American legend. The bill passed the House last month by a 395-2 vote. “Stan Musial is the greatest Polish-American baseball player who ever lived, but it’s the distinguished life he led off of the field, including his selfless service to his country, that makes him worthy of this honor,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As a lifelong baseball fan and proud Polish-American, I am honored to see that a hero to so many will be memorialized with this impressive new bridge spanning over the mighty Mississippi River. Future generations who traverse I-70 between my home state of Illinois and Missouri will forever be reminded of ‘Stan the Man.’” The first inductee ever into the National Polish-American Sports Hall of Fame, Musial died in January at the age of 92. His entire Hall of Fame career was spent playing for the St. Louis Cardinals, where he amassed 3,630 hits, a .331 lifetime batting average and three World Series titles. Musial also was a World War II veteran who served in the U.S. Navy, as well as a Presidential Medal of Freedom winner. Rep. Lipinski's congressional district is home to more than 100,000 Polish-Americans. The I-70 bridge project over the Mississippi River between Illinois and Missouri is expected to be completed in 2014. Construction started in 2010. Earlier this week, an important milestone in the project was reached when work began to place the final girder beam on the new bridge.
07.18.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by more than 70 Democratic and Republican members of Congress from both chambers in front of the Capitol today to unveil Make Government Work!, a legislative reform package unveiled by the No Labels Problem Solvers coalition. The nine bills that make up Make Government Work! would save billions of taxpayer dollars and achieve goals important to all Americans, while serving as template on how to get things done in Congress by building trust and cooperation across party lines. “As an engineer I’ve been trained to solve problems and that is what I was elected to do. But the partisan bickering in Washington has become a major obstacle to solving the many problems facing our nation. No Labels is an antidote to the bickering, providing a forum in which members of Congress who are interested in problem solving can get together and start getting things done for the American people,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Make Government Work! agenda that we are unveiling today is our first set of bipartisan proposals that will make government less wasteful and more efficient and effective. Together, these bills are proof that members of Congress, when they work together, can find common ground on important issues facing the country.” Among the nine bills in Make Government Work! are the No Budget, No Pay Act, which would withhold the paychecks of members of Congress if they cannot pass a budget on time, and the 21st Century Healthcare for Heroes Act to eliminate waste by merging the separate electronic health records at the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs. In the coming weeks, No Labels will be asking the American people to provide an idea for a 10th bill that can be added. For more information on the other pieces of legislation in Make Government Work!, visit nolabels.org. In January, Rep. Lipinski was introduced in the inaugural group of 24 congressional Problem Solvers in New York City. Since then, the coalition has more than tripled in size to 81 members who meet regularly to encourage cooperation and work on solutions to the problems facing Congress and the country. “Washington must find ways to work together or we will achieve nothing. The effort that went into Make Government Work! is a critical first step,” Lipinski said. “The public wants members of Congress to come together and solve problems for the good of our nation. We know the American people are counting on us, and by coming together as Problem Solvers we can make sure America’s best and brightest days are still ahead of us.”
07.11.2013	Zach Mottl, a fourth-generation co-owner of Atlas Tool & Die Works in Lyons, testified in favor of U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski’s American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 2447, in front of the House Science Research & Technology Subcommittee this week. Lipinski’s bill is part of his ongoing effort to spur the creation of good-paying, middle-class manufacturing jobs. “I appreciate hearing from Zach about the difficulties small manufacturing businesses are facing in America. I have visited the factory a number of times and have always been impressed with the work they are doing,” said Rep. Lipinski, the subcommittee’s ranking member. “Businesses such as Atlas Tool & Die are the backbone of our economy and of so many neighborhoods in the Third District. This bill is about setting aside politics and getting into place the policies that help American manufacturing, which is vital for middle-class job creation and our national security. Simply put, ‘Made in America’ equals American job growth and a strong economy.” For every manufacturing job created in America, an additional five spin-off jobs are created. Despite the economic advantages of supporting American manufacturing, the number of manufacturing jobs has been shrinking, from 20 million in 1979 to fewer than 12 million today. Rep. Lipinski’s American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act would bring the public and private sectors together to develop a national manufacturing strategy and a set of recommendations to revitalize this important sector of the economy. “As a business owner, I know planning is critical. That is the basic core of any good business model. Unfortunately, when an organization doesn’t operate with a plan, what occurs is a plan to fail,” Mottl told the subcommittee. “Right now the United States is operating with a plan to fail in the world economy when it comes to manufacturing. This is unacceptable for a global superpower. This bill will help develop a plan for success.” Atlas Tool & Die employs 80 workers and makes parts for products associated with defense, aerospace, telecommunications, electronics, medical supplies, and other industries. In his role as Chief Alignment Officer, Mottl works not only to meet the business needs of new and current customers, but he is engaged in outreach and development strategies that identify operational improvements. Previous versions of Rep. Lipinski’s bill have overwhelmingly passed the House with strong bipartisan support. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) is the current bill’s lead Republican cosponsor.
07.03.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on the Administration’s decision to delay until 2015 the Obamacare employer mandate: “It is good news that the Administration has delayed implementation of the flawed employer mandate in Obamacare. I have heard from many small businesses in the district that there is a lot of confusion about the mandate and it is important that additional time is taken to get this right. But this should have been done the right way, with the President admitting there is a problem and working with Congress to change the law, not by the Administration telling the IRS to ignore the law for a year. It is time for both parties in Washington to get back to legislating solutions to problems facing the American people, in an open and honest manner.”
06.27.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Illinois' senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, issued the following statement on the Senate confirming Anthony Foxx as the new U.S. Secretary of Transportation by unanimous vote today. “Congratulations to Mayor Anthony Foxx on his Senate confirmation as Transportation Secretary. The hard work for the new secretary and members of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee begins immediately. Investing in our transportation infrastructure is critical to creating jobs, improving the quality of life in our communities and fueling the national economic recovery. I look forward to working with the new secretary as we begin to craft a robust, long-term federal transportation bill that meets these challenges. As one of the members of the new Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation, I will be working alongside Secretary Foxx to make sure our highway, aviation, waterway and rail systems are operating as efficiently and safely as possible. I also want to send along my best wishes to outgoing Secretary Ray LaHood, a fellow Illinoisan and true public servant who I enjoyed working with in the House and during his four years leading the Department of Transportation.”
06.27.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is reminding residents of Cook, DuPage, and Will counties hit by severe storms and flooding this spring that they have until Tuesday, July 9, to apply for federal assistance. Residents and businesses impacted by the severe weather from April 16 to May 5 can register by calling the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s toll-free registration line at 800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 800-462-7585 to find out if they are eligible for disaster assistance. Registration can also be done online at www.disasterassistance.gov. “I know many in the Third District suffered serious damage from the severe weather and continue to deal with the aftermath,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Even those of you who sustained minor damage or are not certain if you qualify for help, I urge you to contact FEMA to learn more about what aid may be available for you.” Following torrential rainstorms that damaged homes and businesses across the state, Rep. Lipinski joined the rest of the Illinois delegation this spring to ask the President to back the governor’s request for federal aid. According to FEMA, as of June 27, more than 45,000 applications in Illinois have been approved to receive aid totaling a combined $114.3 million. For more information, visit the Illinois Disaster website at www.fema.gov/disaster/4116.
06.27.2013	A bill co-sponsored by U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) to call the Interstate 70 bridge over the Mississippi River at St. Louis the “Stan Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge” has passed the House by a 395-2 vote. Rep. Lipinski, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, co-sponsored the bill and helped spearhead the effort to name the bridge after the St. Louis Cardinal great and Polish-American legend. “Stan Musial is the greatest Polish-American player to ever step on a baseball diamond. His exploits on the field and status as the National Polish-American Sports Hall of Fame’s first inductee are worthy of our admiration alone. But his deeds off the field, including service to his country and unquestioned character, make him one of America’s greatest heroes and especially deserving of this tribute,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As a lifelong baseball fan and proud Polish-American, I am honored to have helped lead the push to name the I-70 bridge after 'Stan the Man.'" The bill now heads to the Senate for expected approval. Musial died in January at the age of 92. His entire Hall of Fame career was spent playing for the St. Louis Cardinals, where he amassed 3,630 hits, a .331 lifetime batting average and three World Series titles. Musial also was a World War II veteran who served in the U.S. Navy, as well as a Presidential Medal of Freedom winner. Rep. Lipinski's congressional district is home to more than 100,000 Polish-Americans. The I-70 bridge project over the Mississippi River between Illinois and Missouri is expected to be completed in 2014. Construction started in 2010.
06.26.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) delivered the following statement on the House floor last night congratulating the Chicago Blackhawks on winning the 2013 Stanley Cup. A video clip of the statement can be viewed at http://1.usa.gov/11IlhQU. “Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the 2013 Stanley Cup champion Chicago Blackhawks. Last night, sorrow quickly turned to joy when the Hawks netted two goals in 17 seconds, avoiding a Game 7. The crowd at Palmer Place in LaGrange erupted as Chelsea Dagger played and we celebrated a second Cup in four seasons. Congratulations especially to Captain Jonathan Toews, Conn Smyth Trophy winner Patrick Kane, and goalie Corey Crawford. But this was truly a team victory; from all the players on the ice, to Coach Q, to GM Stan Bowman, to owner Rocky Wirtz, the entire organization deserves to be commended and I thank all of them for once again making us proud. I also want to congratulate the Boston Bruins for their great season and a hard-fought final befitting an Original Six matchup. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the Chicago Blackhawks, and I look forward to seeing the Cup back in Chicago.”
06.26.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Illinois’ senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, is formally requesting the Federal Trade Commission investigate “patent trolls” that are increasingly targeting transit agencies with questionable lawsuits claiming patent infringement. In a letter sent to FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez, Rep. Lipinski noted that at least 20 public transit agencies – including Metra – have been sued or threatened with lawsuits, oftentimes resulting in a “nuisance settlement” to avoid much more costly litigation. “Patent trolls are stifling American innovation and, in the case of transit agencies, are draining financially-strapped public entities. This type of litigation undercuts the purpose of the patent system and exploits the fact that public agencies are at a disadvantage in defending themselves,” said Rep. Lipinski, co-chair of the new Public Transportation Caucus. “These lawsuits only hurt taxpayers in my district and elsewhere who rely on a vital public service, especially when many transit agencies already are struggling in these tight financial times.” Patent trolls, more formally known as “patent assertion entities” (PAEs), are companies that do not sell, produce or invent anything, but acquire patents and, in turn, demand licensing fees from other companies through litigation or lawsuit threats. Although the claims may not have merit and many times target the end user and not the product producer, government agencies are reluctant to challenge them and settle to avoid legal and related discovery fees that potentially could cost taxpayers millions of dollars. Litigation tied to patent trolls cost defendants $29 billion in 2011, a 400 percent increase from $7 billion in 2005. Just this week, the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) filed a lawsuit in federal court seeking to halt patent infringement claims against public transit systems throughout the country by two foreign companies. ArrivalStar S.A. and Melvino Technologies have sued more than a dozen transit agencies, accusing them of patent infringement by using GPS tracking systems that notify riders when their buses and trains are due to arrive. In one such case, Metra reluctantly agreed to a $50,000 settlement after weighing the potential costs of litigation. “Our public transit systems have been improving the customer experience by providing real-time schedule and travel information to riders,” said James LaRusch, APTA’s Chief Counsel. “These systems, which are operating under severe financial constraints, are being saddled with these outrageous harassment claims that are a waste of time and money. This must be stopped.” Rep. Lipinski is requesting the FTC identify the most prolific patent trolls and the financial interests behind them, the prevalence of patent infringement lawsuits against government entities and the cost to taxpayers, the impact of such lawsuits on the price of products sold to public agencies, and the effect the litigation has on innovation and competition between entrepreneurs who do government business. Rep. Lipinski’s letter to the FTC and his report on patent trolling are available at www.lipinski.house.gov/press-releases/lipinski-urges-federal-investigation-of-patent-lawsuits-against-public-transit-agencies/.
06.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) introduced today H.R. 2447, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2013, a bill that would bring together the private and public sectors to develop recommendations to revitalize American manufacturing and create good-paying, middle-class jobs here at home. U.S. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) is the lead Republican cosponsor, with U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk (IL) planning to introduce a companion bill in the Senate. “American companies and their workers are operating at a severe disadvantage as they face foreign competitors who benefit from coordinated, strategic government policies that benefit manufacturing,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We need to recognize this reality and bring the public and private sectors together to develop a national manufacturing strategy that specifies recommendations for the optimal tax, trade, research, regulatory, and innovation policies that will enable American manufacturing to thrive. Manufacturing is critical for national security, an essential source of good-paying jobs for the middle class, and drives high-tech innovation.” “Manufacturing is vital to our economic and national security, and it is critical that we do all we can to promote American competitiveness in the global economy,” Rep. Kinzinger said. “I’m proud to work with Congressman Lipinski to put forward bipartisan legislation that focuses our attention on the challenges facing American manufacturers.” America has a long and proud manufacturing history, however, since the 1970s the number of manufacturing jobs has been shrinking, from 20 million in 1979 to fewer than 12 million today. The recent recession hit workers in manufacturing especially hard. The hemorrhaging of manufacturing jobs has contributed to the stagnation of middle-class wages – since 2000, the median household income, after it’s been adjusted for inflation, has fallen by $4,787. A pillar of the “Make It In America” jobs plan in the House, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act will require the National Science and Technology Council’s Committee on Technology to lead other agencies and stakeholders in developing a national manufacturing competitiveness strategy every four years. The strategy would aim to advance policies that streamline government regulations and assist with the transfer of research and development into new products and jobs to grow the country’s manufacturing base. Previous version of the bill have overwhelmingly passed the House with strong bipartisan support. “We commend Congressmen Lipinski and Kinzinger for their authorship of the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2013,” said Scott Paul, President of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “Our nation’s manufacturers and their workers stand poised for a manufacturing resurgence, but Washington must do its part by implementing a strategy that actively responds to the challenges of the 21st Century.”
06.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced that his legislation to help address the continuing problem of sexual assault in the military was included as an amendment to the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act that overwhelmingly passed the House today 315-108. Rep. Lipinski’s bill, the SANE Deployment Act, requires each branch of the military to provide professionally trained sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE) to assist in sexual assault investigations and provide specialized medical treatment and care to victims, with the ultimate goal of reducing the number of sexual assaults committed within the ranks of the armed forces. “I am hopeful that the SANE Deployment Act will bring greater attention to the needs of military sexual assault victims and help ensure that the punishment for the offenders fits the crime,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I will always believe that we have the greatest military in the world, but when I started working on this issue last year, it became apparent that the military’s response to dealing with sexual assault was not working. After learning that sexual assault nurse examiners are often not available for victims and punishment in these cases is severely lacking, I was moved to help introduce this common-sense legislation with my colleagues. We need to get this legislation onto the President’s desk to begin to address this problem.” Rep. Lipinski once again expressed his gratitude to Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) for co-sponsoring the bill and for introducing the amendment based on the bill in the Armed Services Committee. He also thanked Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) and Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) for co-sponsoring the legislation. The SANE Deployment Act requires at least one sexual assault nurse examinerfor each Army brigade, and for equivalent-sized units in the other branches. The SANE will be available to collect evidence during the critical early stages of any sexual assault investigation, while also providing physical and mental care specialized for victims subjected to sexual assault. The Pentagon estimated in a recent report that as many as 26,000 military members may have been sexually assaulted last year, up from an estimated 19,000 assaults in 2011, based on an anonymous survey of military personnel. While the number of sexual assaults that members of the military actually reported rose 6 percent to 3,374 in 2012, thousands of victims were still unwilling to come forward despite new oversight and assistance programs aimed at curbing the crimes, the report said. Less than 10 percent of reported cases ended with conviction at court martial proceedings, with the majority of those resulting in inadequate administrative punishments or dismissal. In addition to Rep. Lipinski’s amendment, the National Defense Authorization Act addresses the issue of sexual assault in the military through several provisions, including stripping commanders of their ability to dismiss court martial convictions for serious offenses, prohibiting commanders from reducing guilty findings for serious offenses, requiring service members found guilty of rape or sexual assault to be punitively discharged from the military and by making clear that victims can report sexual assault crimes outside of the chain of command through a Service Members Bill of Rights. “Sexual assaults in the military are part of a complex problem that will not be easily solved. There very well may need to be more steps taken than those that are in the National Defense Authorization Act,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am hopeful that the SANE Deployment Act can be a piece of the solution by empowering more sexual assault victims and punishing the offenders so all of our women and men in the military can serve confidently, without the fear of being attacked.”
06.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), in a show of respect on Flag Day for our veterans and the men and women currently serving in the armed forces, announced today that he has joined in introducing a Constitutional Amendment that would allow Congress to pass laws prohibiting the desecration of the American flag. The congressman introduced the bipartisan measure, H.J. Res. 13, with U.S. Reps. Spencer Bachus (AL-6) and Nick Rahall (WV-3), calling flag desecration an offensive act that should be within the power of the people’s elected representatives to prevent. U.S. Sen. Orrin Hatch (UT) introduced a companion bill in the Senate yesterday. “The American flag shines like a beacon as the world’s greatest symbol of freedom and democracy. It represents the bedrock of our country, stirs a heartfelt sense of patriotism and continues to inspire Americans and people seeking freedom around the globe. Protecting the flag that so many brave men and women have fought and died under is a responsibility for all Americans,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I cherish the First Amendment’s fundamental right of freedom of speech, but I firmly believe that purposeful flag desecration is an offensive act that cannot and should not be tolerated. As a congressman representing a district with more than 30,000 veterans, I have worked alongside too many veterans and attended far too many memorial ceremonies for soldiers killed in action to ever think otherwise.” In Washington and throughout his district, Rep. Lipinski is known for his work on behalf of veterans and believes providing proper care and recognition to the men and women who are serving and have served in our military are among our country’s highest duties. His amendment, which he has helped to introduce in previous Congresses, would not prescribe a specific law prohibiting flag desecration, but merely grant lawmakers the power to prohibit it if they choose. Once Rep. Lipinski’s joint resolution passes the House and the Senate, it will need to be passed by three-fourths of the state legislatures to be ratified as a Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. “This amendment is often misunderstood,” said James E. Koutz, national commander of The American Legion. “It does not protect the U.S. Flag. It merely returns to Congress the power to pass legislation that would protect the flag, a power that was taken away from them by the Supreme Court in 1989. It is time to correct this mistake – now.”
06.13.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), in advance of Flag Day this Friday, has reintroduced a resolution in the House supporting the respectful and dignified disposal of worn and tattered American flags. As we approach Flag Day, Rep. Lipinski also is reminding his constituents that his offices in Orland Park, Lockport, Oak Lawn, and Chicago’s Garfield Ridge community accept flags throughout the year for proper disposal. “The American flag stands for freedom and democracy at home and abroad, providing a window into United States history and government and accompanying our men and women in the armed forces who have made the ultimate sacrifice to their final resting place,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Flag Day is a reminder of the power of the flag and our responsibility to not only display it, but care for it. I am proud to once again offer this resolution honoring Flag Day and to provide an important service by seeing that old flags are properly retired.” According to the U.S. Code, “The flag, when it is in such a condition that is no longer a fitting emblem for display, should be retired in a dignified way, preferably by burning.” Third Congressional District residents who wish to dispose of their old flags can take them to any of the congressman’s offices listed at lipinski.house.gov, or call 312-886-0481 for more information. An annual tradition in Rep. Lipinski’s district is the emotional flag retirement ceremony hosted by Chicago Ald. James Balcer (11th) in the Chicago Stockyards industrial district. Last year, Rep. Lipinski and Ald. Balcer officially retired almost 7,000 unserviceable flags collected from residents, buildings, and drop boxes. Rep. Lipinski’s resolution, introduced today, calls on members of Congress to promote public awareness of flag etiquette, including the correct disposal of the American flag. The resolution, H.Res. 261, urges House and Senate members to work with groups such as the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Boy Scouts of America to aid in the “respectful and dignified disposal of worn and tattered American flags in their districts and among their constituents.” Cosponsors include Reps. Mark Amodei (NV-2), Mike Michaud (ME-2), John J. Duncan, Jr. (TN-2), and Spencer Bachus (AL-6). President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed June 14, 1917, as a day to commemorate the adoption of the American flag as the official national symbol. Congress officially designated June 14 as Flag Day in 1949, asking citizens to display American flags in and around their homes.
06.10.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), at a special House Rail Subcommittee meeting today on rail issues in Northeastern Illinois, touted the CREATE rail initiative as a model for a successful public-private partnership, but said larger projects, such as grade separations and rail flyover bridges, must be more of a priority going forward with the program. Joining Rep. Lipinski at the bipartisan hearing in Chicago were Rail Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Jeff Denham (CA-10), Rep. Bobby Rush (IL-1), Rep. Cheri Bustos (IL-17) and Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13). “CREATE has been a unique transportation success story by bringing the private and public sectors together in a historic partnership. I am committed to fighting for funding for larger projects in our region and nation to create jobs and provide relief to local residents from both rail and highway congestion,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Looking at the CREATE projects that have been completed so far, the greatest emphasis has been on smaller, rail-specific projects. There has been less progress on the larger projects that in my view represent CREATE's greatest benefit to the public.” CREATE, which stands for the Chicago Region Environmental & Transportation Efficiency Program, is a package of 70 projects to make the region's rail system more efficient, resulting in improved safety, better commuter service and reduced highway congestion, enhancing the quality of life for residents and creating jobs and economic development. In 2005, Rep. Lipinski secured the first $100 million for the program, which is funded through contributions from federal, state and local governments, as well as the freight and commuter railroads. According to today's testimony, if all of the projects in CREATE are completed, half of commuter delays caused by freight are eliminated locally and $3.6 billion in economic activity is generated nationwide. Rep. Lipinski noted that of the seven projects in CREATE that would fix locations where passenger rail lines intersect, just one is completed. Of the 25 projects to separate spots where busy roads and rail lines cross, two are finished and four are under construction, with 12 having no funding whatsoever. “I believe one way to refocus our priorities is to bring back the Projects of Regional and National Significance to identify those projects that are deserving of significant federal investment,” Lipinski said. “But we also require an increased commitment from the other CREATE partners, including local governments and the railroads themselves.” Rep. Lipinski, the state's senior member on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, is one of 11 members on the new House Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation exploring ways to improve the movement of freight throughout the nation and create jobs. The panel will be offering a list of recommendations for consideration by the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee later this year.
06.07.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on the National Security Agency’s use of phone tracking and the PRISM program: “While I believe it is essential that we take steps necessary to protect our nation from terrorism, I also want assurances that our investigative and security agencies are being held to the highest standards and the basic rights of American citizens are not being violated. The recent reports of the NSA’s PRISM program collecting data such as emails, photos, and videos from the world’s top Internet providers to aid in tracking terrorists abroad, as well as the disclosure that the agency has been accumulating the phone records of millions of Americans, serve as reminders of the delicate balance between the federal government’s responsibility to protect lives and infringing upon the fundamental Constitutional rights that make us a free country. Up to this point, only a small group of members of Congress were made aware of the scope and depth of these practices. As an elected representative, I will be looking to find out more about these programs and will look critically at the claims of why they are needed to protect Americans. The tools Congress has granted to the law enforcement and intelligence communities have been important in identifying dangerous terrorists and their support networks. But in this increasingly digital age of information sharing, stringent oversight that guarantees our civil liberties is also vital.”
06.06.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that his bipartisan legislation to help address the growing problem of sexual assault in the military has been added to the National Defense Authorization Act and passed by the House Armed Services Committee. Rep. Lipinski’s bill, the SANE Deployment Act, will require each branch of the military to provide professionally trained sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE) to assist in investigations and provide specialized medical treatment and care to victims, ultimately leading to increased attention to victim needs and helping to ensure that the punishment for the offenders fits the crime. “While I firmly believe we have the greatest military personnel in the world, I continue to be alarmed by the stories of sexual assault in our armed forces,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I started working on the SANE Deployment Act last year when it became clear the military’s response to dealing with sexual assault within its ranks was not working. When I found out that sexual assault nurse examiners were often not available for victims, it was clear that this needed to be changed. I want to thank Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) for co-sponsoring the bill and for introducing the amendment based on the bill in the Armed Services Committee. I would also like to thank Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) and Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) for co-sponsoring the legislation. This change in policy will provide victims of sexual assault with the care they deserve and will help prevent future assaults.” The Department of Defense recently estimated that 26,000 military men and women last year may have been sexually assaulted, a 35 percent increase from the 19,300 in 2010. The number of cases actually reported rose to 3,374 in 2012, a 6 percent increase from 2011, suggesting that potentially thousands of sexual assaults are going unreported because victims are unwilling to come forward. Less than 10 percent of reported cases ended with conviction at court martial proceedings, with the majority of those resulting in inadequate administrative punishments or dismissal. The SANE Deployment Act will require at least one sexual assault nurse examinerfor each Army brigade, and for equivalent-sized units in the other branches. The SANE will be available to collect evidence during the critical early stages of any sexual assault investigation, while also providing physical and mental care specialized for victims subjected to sexual assault. Speier, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, offered an amendment based on Lipinski’s bill when the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act was marked up in committee Wednesday. The House is expected to vote on the NDAA next week. “I appreciate the efforts of my colleagues on this common-sense approach to a problem that requires a sensitive, thoughtful response,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This is a disturbing problem that will not go away overnight, but I am hopeful that we can begin empowering more sexual assault victims and punishing the offenders so all of our women and men in the military can serve confidentially, without the fear of being attacked.”
06.04.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today announced that Andrea Dunn, a senior at Carl Sandburg High School in Orland Park, is the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition for the Third Congressional District. Dunn’s artwork, a painting titled “Marble Universe,” will be displayed in the halls of Congress in Washington, D.C., for the next year alongside the winning pieces from congressional districts across the country. She also receives two round-trip airline tickets to Washington to attend a reception with the winning artists from across the country and the unveiling of their works in the U.S. Capitol. Rep. Lipinski presented Dunn with a certificate at a ceremony attended by her family and teachers at Carl Sandburg High School. The congressman also gave school administrators an American flag that had been flown over the Capitol. In addition to Dunn’s winning piece, the five runners-up will have their artwork displayed for the next year in Rep. Lipinski’s offices: Erin Kelly, of Marist High School, who will have her work displayed in the congressman’s D.C. office; Samantha Brave, of Morton West High School, who will have hers displayed in the congressman’s Chicago district office; Colleen Kelly, of Marist High School, who will have hers displayed in the Orland Park district office; Larissa N. Barnat, of Reavis High School, who will have hers displayed in the Oak Lawn district office; and Madison Tompkins, of Lockport Township High School, who will have her artwork displayed in the Lockport district office. “I congratulate Ms. Dunn for submitting such a wonderful, imaginative piece. I know visitors to the Capitol will be just as impressed with her ability and creativity,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I also congratulate the five runners-up whose artwork will be seen in my offices for the next year. And I want to wish to thank all of the young artists in the Third District, as well as their families and teachers, who participated in this year’s competition. This was easily the hardest year to pick a winner because of the tremendous talent displayed by our young artists. I am already excited to see what our high school artists come up with next year.” All of the winning pieces can be viewed at http://www.lipinski.house.gov/congressional-art-competition. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since the competition began, more than 650,000 high school students have participated.
05.29.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) awarded Chicago’s Garfield Ridge veteran Army Master Sgt. Leo Dilger with several medals he earned for his military service more than six decades ago. Lipinski personally presented Dilger, a veteran of the Korean War, with the medals at a ceremony preceding the congressman’s recent town hall meeting at the European Chalet. “I'm honored to participate in this important day for Master Sgt. Dilger and his family, and proud that my office was able to get him the medals he earned but never received,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Our veterans have fought valiantly for our nation. It is a top priority of mine that they receive the proper recognition for the sacrifices they have made on our behalf.” Dilger served two stints in the U.S. Army between 1948 and 1953. He had recently contacted Lipinski's office for help obtaining the medals he was rightfully due for his service. In addition to Korean Service Medal honoring his time in Korean and the National Defense Service Medal recognizing honorable service during a designated time period in which a national emergency had been declared, Dilger received a Good Conduct Medal, a United Nations Service Medal and an Army of Occupation Medal with a Japan clasp. Together he and his wife, Sally, have three children and six grandchildren.
05.29.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) awarded Chicago Ridge veteran Army Spc. Raymond Sims with two medals he earned for his military service more than five decades ago. Lipinski personally presented Sims with the medals at a ceremony preceding the congressman’s recent town hall meeting in Oak Lawn. “I'm honored to participate in this important day for Spc. Sims and his family, and proud that my office was able to get him the medals he earned but never received,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Our veterans have fought valiantly for our nation. It is a top priority of mine that they receive the proper recognition for the sacrifices they have made on our behalf.” Sims was in the U.S. Army from 1959 to 1962. He had recently contacted Lipinski's office for help obtaining the medals he was rightfully due for his service. In addition to the National Defense Service Medal recognizing honorable service during a designated time period in which a national emergency had been declared, Sims received an Army of Occupation Medal with a Germany clasp and two Marksmanship Badges. Sims lives in Chicago Ridge with his wife of 52 years, Mary. Together, they have seven children and 15 grandchildren.
05.28.2013	On Monday, May 27, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined veterans in Justice's Resurrection Cemetery, Willow Springs, Tinley Park, Orland Park and Crest Hill to honor all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our nation. “Memorial Day is one day of the year in which we collectively stop and pause to remember the men and women who gave their lives to preserve our freedoms. Publicly acknowledging their sacrifice, as well as the sacrifice of all our veterans and those still serving, is the very least we can do to honor these brave men and women and their families. That’s why the Memorial Day events in our local communities are important to me, so we never forget the price that's been paid. I believe protecting and providing proper care and recognition to the men and women who have served and are currently serving are among our country’s highest callings. As a congressman, I am committed to being their advocate, fighting to secure the funding our service personnel need and working with our veterans at home to address their individual needs and concerns. It’s a responsibility I feel privileged to have.”
05.28.2013	To kick off the 2013 beach season, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by Sen. Mark Kirk (IL) and Rep. Randy Hultgren (IL-14) at the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago to reveal new beach closure data highlighting the need for swift passage of the Great Lakes Water Protection Act. There are more than 50 public beaches in Illinois, and every year high levels of harmful pathogens, such as E.coli, cause hundreds of beach closures, costing the local economy millions of dollars. Data revealed today by Rep. Lipinski, Sen. Kirk and Rep. Hultgren shows that Illinois public beaches had suffered more than 400 closures and advisories in 2012. Due to drought and historically low water levels, the number of beach closures is down slightly from 2011. In spite of these factors, the number of beach closures remains staggering, and the issue continues to affect the people of Illinois. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act, introduced by Sens. Kirk and Dick Durbin (IL) in the Senate and by Reps. Lipinski and Hultgren in the House, would end sewage dumping, a primary contributing factor to beach closures, in the Great Lakes by 2033. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act increases fines to up to $100,000 a day per violation and provides communities 20 years to upgrade their sewage treatment facilities. Currently, fines are capped at $37,500 per day. Money collected from fines would flow to a Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund, generating resources for Great Lakes states to improve wastewater treatment options and systems, as well as habitat protection. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act also makes it easier to assess fines at existing levels, beginning a year after the bill's passage. “Improving and protecting our water quality should be a bipartisan goal. Both sides in Washington need to come together and work with all stakeholders to find thoughtful solutions to address the dumping problem in the Great Lakes,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Sewage dumping is a problem largely created because of inadequate infrastructure and outdated wastewater treatment facilities. As the state’s senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, I am committed to helping improve our water treatment systems. This legislation offers a common-sense approach by directing fines from dumping violations to a special fund to improve water treatment facilities throughout the Great Lakes, so we hopefully can eliminate the problem in the future.” “The Great Lakes Water Protection Act will allow us to make real progress toward protecting our Great Lakes – the crown jewel of the Midwest’s ecosystem and a source of drinking water for millions,” Sen. Kirk said. “This bipartisan, bicameral bill is a common-sense way to address sewage dumping and the environmental, financial, and public health hazards it presents.” “No one wants their child playing in sewage-plagued lake water, so it's our responsibility to ensure clean and safe beaches for Illinois families as they get ready to head to the lakefront this summer,” Rep. Hultgren said. “Unnecessary sewage dumping in the lake ecosystem harms our health and our economy, which is why people of all political stripes would like a cleaner environment. With Americans exhausted and fed up at political gridlock and partisanship, it only makes sense for the Congressional leadership to move our bipartisan bill quickly through both the House and Senate.” Cities around the Great Lakes Basin continue to dump directly into the Great Lakes and their tributaries during times of heavy rain. In 2011, Fort Wayne, Ind., dumped 7.5 billion gallons of combined sewage into the tributaries of Lake Erie. Reports estimate that 24 billion gallons of sewage are dumped into the Great Lakes each year, contributing to beach closures and advisories which, according to a University of Chicago study, costs the local economy about $2.4 million each year in lost revenue, in addition to harming the environment and putting the public at risk.
05.23.2013	U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Michael Grimm (R-NY) are announcing the formation of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus aimed at addressing issues facing the country’s public transportation systems, including rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, and traditional bus service. This bipartisan Caucus will provide a forum for members of Congress to engage in constructive dialogue on the challenges and needs of mass transit agencies across the country as increasing demand and decreasing funding are putting unprecedented pressure on America’s public transportation systems. “Public transportation is vital to people from all walks of life in communities all across northeastern Illinois. Buses, trains, and light rail that run safely and reliably reduce congestion on our roads, improve travel times across all modes, cut down on air pollution, and make our communities more attractive places to live, work, and own businesses,” said Rep. Lipinski, who sits on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “Maintaining and improving our public transportation systems must be a part of the solution to creating jobs at home and ensuring our competitiveness in the global marketplace. I look forward to joining Congressman Grimm in calling attention to these issues as co-chair of the new Congressional Public Transportation Caucus.” “New York City has the largest public transit system in the nation – transporting millions of commuters each day by bus, rail, and ferry,” Rep. Grimm said. “A strong public transport system is crucial to our economy and our livelihood, which is why it must be maintained and updated to meet growing demand and ensure the highest levels of safety. Unfortunately, there is currently a gap between where our public transportation infrastructure needs to be and where it is today, which is why this caucus is so important. As co-chair of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on solutions that will improve our aging public transportation system and bring it well into the 21st century.” The America Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), in its annual report card on America’s infrastructure, gave the country’s transit infrastructure a “D” grade. Yet the impact from investing in our public transportation infrastructure would be substantial, not just for improving safety and reliability, but for creating jobs. Every dollar spent on transit generates an economic return of at least 4 to 1. For every $1 billion of capital spending on transit, 24,000 jobs are created, according to a report by the Economic Development Research Group. Additionally, transit has been shown to increase nearby property values and relieve the economic costs and pollution caused by traffic congestion. “Transit is a key component of America’s transportation system, which is the backbone for the country’s economy,” said Joe Costello, Executive Director of the Northeastern Illinois Regional Transportation Authority and founding member of the transit advocacy group Getting America to Work. “We appreciate the leadership of Congressmen Lipinski and Grimm in creating this caucus to focus more national attention on this critical need.” “From Pittsburgh, PA, to Everett, WA, to Detroit, MI, to Charleston, SC, 80 percent of transit systems have had to cut service or increase fares since the recession began. Yet public transportation ridership in the U.S. is the highest it’s been in decades and even more people would use it if they could,” said Larry Hanley, International President of the Amalgamated Transit Union. “We praise Congressmen Lipinski and Grimm for creating this caucus to address this growing demand. It's time for Congress to recognize that public transit creates good jobs, delivers customers to businesses, and helps create a clean environment. There is literally nothing more effective in getting our economy moving than mass transit.”
05.21.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski will be hosting a Veterans Fair on June 17 in Orland Park. Rep. Lipinski’s staff will be joined by the Illinois and U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs and other organizations to assist veterans with a variety of issues, including military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA Hospital billing, placement in VA homes, GI Bill information and other veterans’ issues. “My Veterans Fairs are great opportunities for local veterans and their families to get the assistance they need in one convenient location,” Rep. Lipinski said. “My office has worked with countless veterans by cutting through the red tape to solve problems with the VA, housing, old military records, medals they have not received and many, many other issues. I am proud to provide this service to the men and women who have sacrificed for our country.” The Veterans Fair will be held at the following time and location: Monday, June 17 10 a.m. - noon Orland Township Building 14807 S. Ravinia Ave. Orland Park, Ill. 60467 For more information, call 312-886-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
05.17.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski will be hosting Senior Fairs throughout the month of June to give seniors the opportunity to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies and business that provide services to seniors. “As part of my job as a representative of my constituents, I hold these fairs to help seniors cut through the bureaucratic red tape and get the services they need,” Rep. Lipinski said. “My office has helped countless seniors solve problems involving Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, veterans’ benefits, the Postal Service and other federal issues. I am proud to work on behalf of the seniors of the Third District and fight for their interests in Congress.” The dates, times and locations for the Senior Fairs are as follows: Monday, June 3 10 a.m. - noon VFW Rhine Post 2729 5858 South Archer Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60638 Monday, June 10 10 a.m. - noon Oak Lawn Community High School 9400 Southwest Highway Oak Lawn, Ill. 60453 Monday, June 24 10 a.m. - noon Romeoville Recreation Center 900 W. Romeo Road Romeoville, Ill. 60446 Among those scheduled to attend are representatives from the Social Security Administration, Walgreens, Advocate Christ Medical Center, Franciscan Village, Waddell & Reed, Comfort Keepers, the Cook County Sheriff's Office, La Grange Pointe, Home and Hearth Caregivers, and the Salvation Army. For more information, call 312-886-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
05.15.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today introduced legislation to address the continuing problem of sexual assault in the military by requiring the armed services to provide professionally trained sexual assault nurse examiners (SANE) to assist in investigations and provide specialized medical attention and care to victims. Rep. Lipinski’s bill, The SANE Deployment Act, comes in the wake of a Department of Defense report last week showing that military sexual assaults and related crimes have risen 35 percent in the last two years. “I have been greatly disturbed by recent reports that show sexual assaults in the military are increasing and that investigation and punishment in these cases are often lacking. Clearly, the current system in place to deal with these horrible crimes isn’t working and must be changed,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The SANE Deployment Act will help give victims more confidence to come forward knowing their cases will be handled with greater professionalism and sensitivity.” Rep. Lipinski’s legislation would require the Department of Defense to train at least one sexual assault nurse examinerfor each Army brigade, and for equivalent-sized units in the other branches. The SANE would be available to collect evidence during the critical early stages of any sexual assault investigation, while also providing physical and mental care specialized for victims subjected to sexual assault. The position would be filled by a trained nurse who completes 40 hours of training on sexual assault forensics and how to best care for victims of sex crimes. The congressman’s bill allows existing military nurses to undergo the training so no extra personnel would need to be added. Last week, the Department of Defense estimated that 26,000 military men and women last year experienced unwanted sexual contact, an increase from 19,300 in 2010. While there were 3,374 reports of sexual assaults last year, compared with 3,192 in 2011, in both years less than 10 percent ended with conviction at court martial proceedings. The majority of cases resulted in inadequate administrative punishments or were dismissed altogether. Congressman Lipinski’s legislation would allow for better evidence collection to help with more effective prosecutions that can result in fitting punishments. Joining Rep. Lipinski in introducing this legislation are Reps. Jeff Fortenberry (NE-R), Vicky Hartzler (MO-R) and Jackie Speier (CA-D). Reps. Speier and Hartzler are members of the House Armed Services Committee. Rep. Speier has been a leader on legislative efforts to address the growing sexual assault issues faced by the Department of Defense. “We have the greatest military in the world, but we must do everything we can to ensure that all of our men and women in the armed forces know they can carry out their responsibilities confidently and without fear of assault from their own fellow service members,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The SANE Deployment Act is an important step toward empowering the victims of these crimes, punishing the perpetrators and achieving the overall goal of eliminating military sexual assaults altogether. I am hopeful that this common-sense legislation will be passed on its own or added to the Department of Defense Authorization Bill this summer.”
05.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that a partnership of eight south suburban fire departments has been awarded a $568,483 grant from the Department of Homeland Security toward the purchase of a new portable radio system that meets federal operating standards and improves safety through state-of-the-art electronic monitoring capabilities that can better locate firefighters who are in danger. The grant was awarded to the Garden Homes Fire Protection District, serving portions of unincorporated Cook County near Alsip, Merrionette Park and Chicago, on behalf of fire departments in Alsip, Blue Island, Calumet Park, Dixmoor, Midlothian, Palos Heights and Palos Park. “Giving our first responders the tools they need to do their jobs is critical to improving their safety and allowing them to continue with the top-notch service they provide to our communities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant, which will purchase a modern communications system that should give greater peace of mind to the brave men and women at our fire departments who risk their lives every day.” The $568,483 will help purchase new portable radios that are compliant with Federal Communications Commission requirements for emergency radios to operate under certain bandwidths. The radios also include distress buttons that send an alert to an incident commander if a firefighter is trapped or under distress and requires assistance. The population served by the eight departments is more than 110,000, encompassing 24 square miles. “This grant will have a tremendous regional benefit by upgrading essential communications equipment at several fire departments,” said Garden Homes Fire Protection District Chief Rick Koopman. “Our highest priority is making sure we provide the best care and service to the communities we serve. On behalf of the eight departments who will be receiving these new radios, we are thankful for the congressman's work on behalf of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
05.13.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today in response to reports that the Internal Revenue Service targeted “tea party,” “patriot,” and other conservative groups for special scrutiny: “I am extremely troubled by the recent reports of highly inappropriate, perhaps illegal, actions at the Internal Revenue Service. Targeting any individuals or organizations and subjecting them to heightened IRS scrutiny because of their political beliefs is not only outrageous, but it goes against the very set of principles that are the foundation of our country. This abuse of power must be investigated thoroughly so we can get to the bottom of this matter as soon as possible. We need to know who was involved, who knew about it and when, and what was done when these actions came to light. Even if there are only a few inside the IRS who abused their power, they must be held accountable, and quickly, so we can begin to restore the trust of the American people.”
05.13.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that his constituents in Will, DuPage and Cook counties hit by last month’s flooding are now eligible to apply for federal assistance. Last Friday, the president signed a disaster declaration for 11 counties in Illinois, one day after Rep. Lipinski and rest of the Illinois delegation urged him to back the governor’s request for federal aid following torrential rainstorms damaged homes and business across the state. The declaration covers those affected by the severe storms and winds between April 16 and May 5. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which administers the assistance program, has a established a toll-free telephone number (800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for victims to apply for assistance. Registration can also be done online at www.disasterassistance.gov. “I know many Third District residents suffered serious damage from last month’s flooding and continue to deal with the aftermath,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It has been made clear to me that the magnitude of the damage and the recovery efforts will be beyond the means of state and local budgets Federal assistance is clearly necessary. I am glad the president heeded our call to make aid available.”
05.08.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today applauded the Department of Health and Human Services for releasing data showing the wide price discrepancies that various hospitals charge for the same procedure, bringing much-needed transparency to health care costs and providing valuable information to patients seeking medical treatment. The first bill the congressman introduced when he arrived in Congress in 2005 was the Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act to require hospitals to publicly disclose their prices for their most common procedures and medications. “Lowering health care costs has been at the top of my agenda since I was first elected to Congress. One way to do this is to require hospitals to reveal the prices they charge for various procedures,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Price transparency – combined with quality measures – will help patients make informed choices and help encourage hospitals to lower their prices. I applaud the administration for releasing this important data today. Although the information applies to Medicare-covered procedures only, it is an important first step. I will continue to push for passage of my Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act, to ensure even broader hospital price transparency. With prices for the most basic procedures still wildly out of control and inconsistent, this legislation is needed now more than ever. The release of the data today confirms that.” Rep. Lipinski’s Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act would mandate that hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers regularly disclose the prices they charge for the 25 most common inpatient and outpatient procedures. The idea for the bill came from the congressman’s own experience with hospital bills and research showing wide discrepancies in the amount hospitals charge for the same product and service. The report released today by Health and Human Services’ Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services can be viewed at http://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/Medicare-Provider-Charge-Data/index.html.
05.07.2013	After pressuring the Federal Aviation Administration for months to drop plans to close the air traffic control tower at Midway Airport during the overnight hours, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the state's senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, announced today that the agency has backed away from the proposal and will keep the tower open at all hours for the remainder of the fiscal year. The FAA had inexplicably added Midway, one of the country's top 25 busiest airports, to a list of 72 airports nationwide that could have had their staffing levels slashed as a result of the sequester. “I am happy that the FAA finally has come to its senses, but leaving the airport employees and Midway neighbors in limbo this long was unacceptable and no way to run a major metropolitan airport,” Lipinski said. “I believe closing the control tower at Midway for any length of time undoubtedly would have had a negative ripple effect on air travel throughout the country.” The FAA this spring had proposed closing the Midway overnight as the agency sought to trim $637 million from its budget because of federal sequestration. Rep. Lipinski continually communicated to the FAA that Midway should not be on this list by emphasizing how important it is to keep the tower open at all hours. Each year, Midway serves almost 20 million passengers and more than 250,000 aircraft operations, ranging from smaller general aviation airplanes to commercial airlines carrying up to 175 people. According to the city’s Department of Aviation, the proposed closure of the control tower would have resulted in 31 square miles of uncontrolled airspace each night in a densely populated area that includes downtown Chicago. “I am hopeful that tabling the idea of an overnight tower closure at Midway through the end of this fiscal year gives Congress ample time to come together on a comprehensive budget solution and scrap the sequester,” Lipinski said. “All sides in Washington need to compromise and stop scaring the public with the specter of more sequester cuts.”
05.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), senior member of the House Science, Space & Technology Committee, toured Argonne National Laboratory and met with lab Director Eric D. Isaacs to discuss plans for the Joint Center for Energy Storage Research (JCESR). In December, Argonne was chosen by the federal government as the site for JCESR, which includes five DOE national labs, five local universities, and 4 private businesses united in working toward the goal of creating batteries with five times the current storage capacity, at five times cheaper than the current cost, within five years. The congressman has been a strong supporter of the project for its potential to achieve breakthroughs in battery technology which will lower our dependence on foreign oil and create jobs and economic development around the Argonne Lab. “After visiting with Argonne officials today, I am hopeful that the ambitious goals for JCESR are within reach. The research taking place at Argonne will have far-reaching impacts that will potentially slash our dependence on foreign oil and create jobs here at home,” said Rep. Lipinski, the Ranking Member on the Research Subcommittee. “I am especially excited for the communities around Argonne that will be at the doorstep of innovation that will impact so many aspects of our lives, from electric cars to smart phones and beyond. This battery hub is a great example of how to turn federal research into jobs and make sure American taxpayers get the best return on their investment in science.” JCESR’s primary objective is to develop more effective and cheaper energy storage solutions. The research is anticipated to not only reduce the cost of electric vehicles, but also open up new possibilities for wind and solar power storage, promoting American energy independence. The effort, which includes research and private sector partners, will partly rely on Argonne’s IBM Mira, one of the world’s fastest supercomputers. “With this new Energy Storage Hub here at Argonne, we are embarking on an historic, focused effort to transform our nation’s energy landscape,” said Director Isaacs. “We appreciate Rep. Lipinski's strong support for JCESR, which will provide important economic opportunities for the Chicago area and promises to make Illinois the heart of the vital and growing advanced battery industry.” As part of his tour, Rep. Lipinski, co-chair of the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Education Caucus, organized a visit to Argonne for Project Infinite Green, an afterschool program for sixth- through ninth-grade students from Lockport and Lemont schools interested in science and energy solutions. As part of a yearlong project, the students are researching clean energy alternatives and developing plans for a hybrid motorcycle. A former teacher, as well as one of the few trained engineers in Congress, Rep. Lipinski took questions from the students as they discussed transportation and energy research with staff from JCESR and Argonne’s Transportation Research Center. “Every time I have had the opportunity to meet with the Project Infinite Green students I have been impressed by their drive and determination to learn as much as they can about science and how they can apply their research to improving our day-to-day lives,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Students are more likely to pursue careers in science and engineering after learning firsthand what scientists and engineers can do. I am especially proud that I was able to help the students from Project Infinite Green get an inside look at some of the important work that takes place at Argonne, one of the best research labs in the world.”
05.01.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he will host two Town Hall Meetings on Saturday, May 11, in Oak Lawn and Chicago’s Garfield Ridge community. At the Town Hall Meetings, Third Congressional District residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and give their thoughts on federal issues. Staff from the congressman’s office will be available 30 minutes before the start of the meetings to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. "I want to personally extend an invitation to the residents of the Third Congressional District to my upcoming Town Hall Meetings. As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you," Rep. Lipinski said. "These events will be fantastic opportunities for you to get help on federal programs and to hear about the wide array of constituent services my office provides. It is my privilege to serve you. I am eager to offer my assistance and hear your ideas." The dates and times for the Town Hall Meetings are as follows: Saturday, May 11 9 - 10:15 a.m. Oak Lawn Village Hall 9446 S. Raymond Avenue Oak Lawn, Ill. 60453 Click HERE for directions. 11 a.m. – 12:15 p.m. European Chalet 5445 S. Harlem Avenue (Just North of Archer Ave.) Chicago, Ill. 60638 Click HERE for directions For more information, call 312-866-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov and www.facebook.com/repdanlipinski.
04.22.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the Chicago Ridge Fire Department has received a $214,533 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to purchase a new ambulance with a battery-powered stretcher, saving the village from the costs of maintaining an older vehicle and making it safer for personnel to work on patients, reducing the risk of injury from lifting and moving stretchers manually. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe. Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety and cut costs at the Chicago Ridge Fire Department, providing better service to area residents and businesses.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. “This grant will be used to replace one of our ambulances that is 17 years old. Replacing it will benefit Chicago Ridge residents by allowing us to save money on maintenance costs and cutting down on the chance of injury that can occur on the job to our firefighter-paramedics,” said Chicago Ridge Fire Chief Robert Muszynski. “We are thankful for the congressman’s work on behalf of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and look forward to continuing to provide the best service and care possible to our community.” For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.17.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced that the House has overwhelmingly passed the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2013 (H.R. 756) by a vote of 402-16. This bipartisan bill, introduced by Rep. Lipinski and Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), will increase the security of federal networks and information systems, improve the transfer of cybersecurity technologies to the marketplace, train a cybersecurity workforce, and coordinate and prioritize federal cybersecurity research and development efforts. “Approval of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act comes a month after the Director of National Intelligence said that the danger of cyber attacks and cyber espionage on crucial infrastructure tops the list of global threats. In the United States, we face the real threat of a ‘cyber Pearl Harbor attack’ by individuals, criminal syndicates, or other countries that could destroy America’s military or economic security,” Rep. Lipinski said. “American workers and businesses already have been damaged and lost jobs because of cyber espionage, and we have managed to avoid much worse attacks every day. That’s why getting this bill through the Senate and onto the president’s desk cannot wait any longer.” This legislation, which passed the House twice in previous Congresses, will: • Improve coordination in government, providing for a strategic plan to assess the cybersecurity risk and guide the overall direction of federal cyber research and development. • Update the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) responsibilities to develop security standards to harden our federal networks and processes for agencies to follow. • Establish a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development, improve training of cyber professionals. • Continue much-needed cybersecurity research and development programs at the National Science Foundation and NIST. “All three times this legislation has passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, which is a testament to the importance of the bill and to the quality of work that has gone into it,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Because of the rising threats and the fact that Mr. McCaul and I have worked hard to improve the chances of passage in the Senate, I am very hopeful that we will finally see this piece of the cybersecurity puzzle get put into place during this congress.”
04.17.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the Garden Homes Fire Protection District, serving portions of unincorporated Cook County near Alsip, Merrionette Park and Chicago, has received a $34,043 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to purchase new equipment to assist firefighters responding to fires and incidents involving hazardous materials. The grant will allow the fire protection district to purchase a new compressor and filling station for self-contained breathing apparatus. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe. Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety at the Garden Homes Fire Protection District and better serve area residents and businesses.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. “We appreciate Rep. Lipinski’s assistance with this grant that will allow us to upgrade equipment vital to the safety of the men and women of the Garden Homes Fire Protection District,” said Garden Homes Fire Protection District Chief Rick Koopman. “We are thankful for the congressman’s work on behalf of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and look forward to continuing to provide top-notch service and care to our community.” For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.17.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he has signed on as a cosponsor of the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act (H.R. 1565), the House version of a Senate amendment, negotiated by Sens. Joe Manchin (WV-D) and Pat Toomey (PA-R), that will strengthen background checks on gun purchases and help prevent convicted criminals and mentally ill individuals from obtaining guns, while protecting the Second Amendment. "Like all Americans, I have been saddened and troubled by the widespread incidents of gun violence that have claimed the lives of so many innocent people. While I recognize that many factors contribute to this complex problem, such as inadequate access to mental health care, family breakdown and the proliferation of violent media, I believe that there are some commonsense answers that do not infringe on the Second Amendment," Rep. Lipinski said. "The bipartisan legislation I am supporting would improve upon the existing system of background checks, establishing a first line of defense against guns falling into the hands of criminals and the dangerously mentally ill, but respecting the rights of law-abiding Americans." Introduced Tuesday, the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act mirrors bipartisan legislation in the Senate crafted by Sens. Manchin and Toomey. Their legislation is intended as an amendment to the broader public safety legislation currently being debated in the Senate. The bill would close the so-called gun show loophole by expanding background checks to include firearms sales made at gun shows, online, and through classified ads, with some exceptions made for transfers between friends and family. The legislation would require background checks on all commercial sales to be conducted through a federally licensed dealer with access to the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). In addition, a national commission would be created to study what triggers acts of mass violence. Also included is increased funding to incentivize states in submitting relevant mental health records to the NICS, as well as penalties for states that fail to comply with certain benchmarks in making records available to the NICS.
04.16.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was named today to a special House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee panel tasked with examining the state of freight transportation in the United States and how improving the movement of freight can strengthen the economy and create jobs. Of the 11 members on the new “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation,” Rep. Lipinski is the only one from the Midwest, tapped by Committee Chairman Bill Shuster and Ranking Member Nick J. Rahall for his extensive expertise responding to the various challenges facing the multiple modes of transportation in northeastern Illinois, the crossroads of America. “I am looking forward to beginning the important work of taking a comprehensive review of how we move freight, developing a strategy to improve on that system and ultimately positioning the United States to better compete in the global economy,” said Rep. Lipinski, the state’s senior member on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “Since all freight moves on multiple modes – highways, ports, inland waterways, railroads, air, and pipelines – taking a big picture approach is the smart way to plan for our many transportation needs. I am hopeful that we will begin to establish the projects that are of national and regional significance, prioritizing those that are critical to economic development and job growth throughout the country and the region. Topping that list is CREATE, the ongoing rail modernization plan for northeastern Illinois that is critical for our region and for our nation.” The Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation will serve for six months developing recommendations for the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee to improve the efficiencies and connections of the country’s freight network. The first meeting will be April 24. Representing a district that includes federal highways, state tollways, Chicago’s Midway Airport and Romeoville’s Lewis University Airport, the Chicago Sanitary & Ship Canal, four commuter rail lines, Amtrak, and six of the country's seven Class I freight railroads, Rep. Lipinski is personally familiar with the transportation needs and challenges facing the country. His district also includes a large section of Will County, home to two major intermodal freight yards. The congressman is the leading supporter of the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency Program (CREATE), helping obtain the first $100 million for the program in 2005 and working to secure hundreds of millions of additional dollars since then. Considered a project of national significance, CREATE is key to unclogging the shipment of freight by reducing congestion and improving safety with track, switch, and signal upgrades and by constructing overpasses and underpasses to end conflicts at railroad crossings. It will also limit locomotive engine idling, improve air quality and enhance the quality of life for the region’s residents by reducing highway congestion and improving travel times. Earlier this Congress, Rep. Lipinski introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure that America’s inland waterway system can meet the current and future demands of the 21st century economy through the passage of a comprehensive, long-term inland waterway system modernization plan based on collaborative recommendations of a team of inland navigation private sector stakeholders and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. “I am especially pleased to be named to this new panel because of the opportunity to call attention to the significant role the 3rd Congressional District and northeastern Illinois plays in the shipment of freight,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The flow of goods across all modes of transportation in our area is critical to the health of our national economy and the creation and retention of good jobs.”
04.12.2013	Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Dave Reichert (WA-8) are the recipients of the 2013 Biological and Ecological Sciences Coalition (BESC) Congressional Leadership Award. The award is given to recognize congressional leaders who have demonstrated a commitment to promoting public policy that advances the nation’s scientific research enterprise. “We are fortunate to have two such strong supporters of the natural sciences in Congress,” said Nadine Lymn, co-chair of BESC and director of public affairs for the Ecological Society of America. “Representatives Lipinski and Reichert have repeatedly demonstrated that they value the contributions of biology and other sciences to society and believe that sustaining the nation’s research and technology enterprise is a worthy investment.” Lipinski is the Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Research. He sponsored the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2010, which authorized increased funding for the National Science Foundation; the legislation became part of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act, which was signed into law in 2011. Lipinski is a vocal supporter of the use of prizes to stimulate innovation, and successfully amended U.S. law to allow federal agencies to award cash prizes to innovators. The congressman is also a co-chair of the House Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics Education Caucus, and a member of the Congressional Research and Development Caucus. Reichert has worked actively to conserve the wild areas of Washington state and the nation. A former member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, he sponsored a resolution that recognized the contributions of female scientists. Reichert was one of only 17 House Republicans to support the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010. He is co-chair of the National Parks Caucus and National Landscape Conservation Caucus, and a member of the Congressional Biomedical Research Caucus and Wild Salmon Caucus. Reichert is chair of the Human Resources Subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Representatives Lipinski and Reichert are steadfast advocates for scientific research, particularly at the National Science Foundation,” said BESC co-chair Robert Gropp, director of public policy at the American Institute of Biological Sciences. “They both appreciate that research drives innovation, contributes to the solution of complex problems, and will help drive new economic growth.”
04.11.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the Bridgeview Fire Department has received a $124,659 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to purchase new equipment to assist firefighters responding to fires and incidents involving hazardous materials. The grant will allow the department to acquire 24 self-contained breathing apparatus and facemasks for every member of the department. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe. Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety at the Bridgeview Fire Department and better serve the residents and businesses of Bridgeview.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. “We appreciate Rep. Lipinski’s assistance with this grant that will allow us to upgrade equipment vital to the safety of the men and women of the Bridgeview Fire Department,” said Bridgeview Mayor Steve Landek. “The addition of the new self-contained breathing apparatus will not only help protect our firefighters, but it will ensure that our residents continue to receive the quality service they expect from their fire department.” For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
04.10.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined House Democrats today to unveil the new Make It In America plan to create good middle class jobs by revitalizing domestic manufacturing. Rep. Lipinski, who has contributed legislation to the Make It In America agenda the last two Congresses, was recognized for his Customs Training Enhancement Act and American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, two key pieces of legislation that promote job creation in our communities. “Manufacturing is vital to our nation, providing the foundation for our middle class, assuring a reliable defense industrial base, and innovating the next generation of goods to drive our economy’s growth,” Rep. Lipinski said at a press conference in Washington, D.C. “The Make It In America agenda has helped bring focus to some of the key issues faced by America’s middle class and those who aspire to work to reach the middle class. This latest agenda will continue the important work of helping our communities recover by highlighting what America does best – American workers producing quality products.” Last month, Rep. Lipinski introduced the Customs Training Enhancement Act (H.R. 1322) which will enable American firms and workers who are undercut by illegal imports to work with Customs to stop those illicit goods at our ports. Far too often foreign suppliers use mislabeling to evade anti-dumping or countervailing duties – measures put in place to protect American manufacturers and workers from unfair trade. This legislation will encourage private-public partnerships to improve our customs enforcement and protect American jobs. The congressman soon will be reintroducing his bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act. The legislation, which overwhelmingly passed the House last year, will bring together business, labor, academia, and government to develop recommendations for policies that will improve the ability of American manufacturers to compete globally. Other Make It In America legislation in this Congress will be focused on making progress in four key areas: developing a national manufacturing strategy, increasing manufacturing exports, encouraging businesses to bring innovation and jobs back home, and investing in training and securing the skilled workforce needed to support manufacturing in the 21st Century. The priorities were developed after hearing from leaders in business and labor about the policies that would make the biggest difference in helping businesses and workers literally make it in America. House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer has been leading a group of Democrats supporting the Make It In America Agenda for America’s middle class. For more information on the Make It In America jobs plan, visit www.democraticwhip.gov/issues/make-it-america.
04.09.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the state’s senior member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter this week to the Federal Aviation Administration urging a stop to any plans for an overnight closure of the air traffic control tower at Midway Airport. Rep. Lipinski, who sits on the Aviation Subcommittee, met Friday with representatives and pilots from Southwest Airlines, as well as air traffic controllers, to learn more about the negative impact an overnight closure would have on the airport and the nation’s aviation system overall. “At a subcommittee meeting in February, I questioned FAA Administrator Michael Huerta on the Administration’s decision to put Midway Airport’s air traffic control tower on the list for potential shutdown overnight because of the sequester. I have yet to receive a satisfactory answer and there have been no announcements from the FAA on this issue since then,” Lipinski said. “After talking with the employees that would be most impacted – the pilots of the airport’s biggest carrier and the air traffic controllers – I believe closing the control tower at Midway for any length of time undoubtedly would have a negative ripple effect on air travel throughout the country. “As one of America’s top 25 busiest airports, Midway is vital to the economic success of the neighborhood and the entire Chicago area. Passenger traffic at Midway is at an all-time high, a remarkable accomplishment for an airport once on the verge of closing. It makes no sense that the FAA would consider an overnight closure of the tower. There seems to be little – if any – cost savings from such a move.” The FAA this spring included Midway’s control tower among 72 nationwide that could close overnight as the agency seeks to trim $637 million from its budget because of federal sequestration. In addition to his letter, Rep. Lipinski has continued to communicate to the FAA that Midway should not be on this list and has emphasized how important it is to keep the tower open at all hours. Each year, Midway serves almost 20 million passengers and more than 250,000 aircraft operations, ranging from smaller general aviation airplanes to commercial airlines carrying up to 175 people. According to the city’s Department of Aviation, the proposed closure of the control tower will result in 31 square miles of uncontrolled airspace each night in a densely populated area that includes downtown Chicago. "This is one more reason why the sequester is a terrible way to go about addressing the country’s budget problems,” Lipinski said. “The sequester’s indiscriminate cuts and failure to make a distinction between worthwhile and wasteful programs is irresponsible.”
04.03.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by Chicago Ald. Ed Burke (14th), neighborhood leaders, and the family of Private First Class Omar E. Torres for the April 2 dedication of the 4600 block of South Keeler Avenue as Omar E. Torres Way. Torres grew up on the block and played football at De La Salle High School before earning a full scholarship to The Ohio State University and joining the U.S. Army Reserves. Pvt. Torres was killed in 2007 when his unit was hit with an explosive device while patrolling Baghdad. He was 20 years old. “I was deeply honored to participate in dedicating the street where Pvt. Torres was raised and to see how much this means to his family, friends, and former neighbors. He truly was a hero and made a difference in his community that continues to make an impact to this day,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I will always remember the outpouring from the community at Omar’s wake at St. Richard. Now, when people see the signs for Omar E. Torres Way, they will be reminded of him, his bravery, and his selfless service to his country. We will never forget his sacrifice and we are forever indebted to him, as well as to all of the men and women who serve in our armed forces.” Rep. Lipinski in 2007 read a statement on the House floor honoring Torres for his accomplishments and sacrifice, noting his interest in politics and strong desire to work for positive change in his country. In addition to the street designation, the UNO charter school at 4248 W. 47th St. is named the PFC Omar E. Torres School. Children from the school attended the dedication ceremony and read poetry honoring Pvt. Torres.
04.01.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is currently accepting nomination request letters from young persons in the 3rd Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies for the classes entering in the summer of 2014. The service academies include: • Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. • Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. • West Point Military Academy, West Point, N.Y. • Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, N.Y. Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year they would enter the academy; be a United States citizen; have graduated from high school; be unmarried; have taken the ACT and/or SAT; and meet the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January 2014, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is Dec. 2, 2013. Nomination requests can be submitted to Joe Bonomo in Rep. Lipinski’s Chicago office at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, Ill., 60638. The phone number is (312) 886-0481.
03.28.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined today by state, local, and University of Illinois officials, as well as business leaders, for the launch of the Blue Waters supercomputer at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications in Urbana-Champaign. The congressman, in delivering the keynote address at an event commemorating the launch, highlighted the supercomputer’s importance to not only scientific research but also job creation in the state. As one of the world’s fastest supercomputers, there is great potential for the creation of manufacturing and high-tech jobs by attracting and developing private businesses. “With this launch of the Blue Waters computer in Urbana-Champaign, along with the Mira computer located in my district at Argonne National Laboratory, Illinois now has two of the fastest supercomputers in the world,” said Rep. Lipinski, Ranking Member of the Research Subcommittee of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. “These supercomputers not only put us at the cutting edge of scientific research, they also provide an economic boost locally and for the state. Manufacturers will be drawn here to have an edge over their international competition, with access to the kind of computing power that allows them to develop prototypes faster and at a lower cost. That means jobs. Supercomputers such as Blue Waters also expand the frontiers of technology, leading to innovative new products. That also means jobs. “Investments in projects such as Blue Waters pay off in the long run by keeping the United States at the forefront of scientific research and helping promote home-grown innovation and jobs.” Blue Waters was made possible through a National Science Foundation grant in 2007. With a sustained speed of more than 1 petaflop and capable of performing more than 1 quadrillion calculations per second, Blue Waters is one of the world’s most powerful supercomputers and dedicated to open scientific research, meaning researchers, scientists and businesses throughout the country can qualify for computing time 365 days a year through an application process. In 2010, Rep. Lipinski wrote the section of the America COMPETES Act that authorized programs like the one that funded the Blue Waters project. “From understanding the early universe, to mapping the brain, to modeling the development of biological systems and new drugs, to improving our ability to accurately forecast dangerous storms and weather events, the scientific applications for supercomputers such as Blue Water are endless,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Blue Waters is a reminder that Congress needs to get to work on another America COMPETES bill so we can keep America at the head of the pack.” Joining Rep. Lipinski at today’s event were Gov. Pat Quinn, former Rep. Tim Johnson (IL-15), University of Illinois President Robert Easter and University of Illinois Chancellor Phyllis Wise. For more information about Blue Waters, visit www.ncsa.illinois.edu/BlueWaters.
03.28.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the Palos Heights Fire Protection District has received a $32,775 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to purchase new motorized ambulance cots. The grant will allow the fire protection district to buy three cots, one for each ambulance in the fleet, making it easier for personnel to work on patients and eliminating the risk of injury from lifting and moving stretchers manually. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe. Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety at Palos Heights Fire Protection District and better serve the residents and businesses in the Palos Heights area.” “We appreciate Rep. Lipinski's assistance with this grant that will allow the Palos Heights Fire Protection District to better respond to residents in the Palos Heights area,” said Palos Heights Mayor Robert Straz. “The addition of the motorized ambulance cots will ensure that our residents continue to receive the quality service they have come to expect.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. “This grant will allow our firefighter/paramedics to respond more efficiently during emergency medical responses, and will cut down on the chance of injury that can occur on the job,” said Palos Height Fire Protection District Chief Timothy Sarhage. “We are thankful for Rep. Lipinski’s work on behalf of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and look forward to continuing to provide top-notch service and care to our community.” For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
03.27.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was joined by local officials and area business leaders for the recent grand opening in Bedford Park of FarmedHere, a vertical, soil-free indoor farm – the first of its kind in the nation. The facility, which is housed in a former industrial warehouse, will create an estimated 200 jobs and supply nearly a million pounds of produce and greens to the Chicago area at full production. “As someone who has long advocated the promotion of new, innovative ways to create jobs and generate economic development in our communities, I welcome FarmedHere to Bedford Park and the 3rd Congressional District. Growing up in this area I would never have imagined a farm in the Clearing Industrial District. That is why I have been especially happy to work with the FarmedHere team for more than two years to help make this project a reality,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The entire Chicago area will benefit by having fresh, nutritious food grown literally right in our backyard. And the energy saved by shipping produce a few miles instead of a few thousand miles will also be a benefit. I look forward to FarmedHere’s continued growth and anticipate similar, creative approaches by other start-up companies also finding success in our communities.” FarmedHere is the largest indoor aquaponic vertical farm in the United States and the first to receive National Organic Certification from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. To maximize growing operations, beds are stacked vertically and, instead of soil, water from fish tanks delivers nutrient to the plants through an aquaponic or aeroponic system. Water pressure, humidity and atmospheric pressure are set to create optimal growing conditions. Among the plants that are grown for local restaurants and grocery stores are various types of basil, arugula, mints and other greens. The benefits of the approach include higher yields, cheaper delivery costs, fresher products and a reduction in the use of fossil fuels by cutting down on shipping distances and eliminating the use of traditional farming equipment. Through a partnership with the Chicago Botanic Garden, FarmedHere will help train local children in urban farming practices. For more information about FarmedHere, visit www.farmedhere.com.
03.21.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today introduced legislation that will help American manufacturers grow their businesses and add jobs by cracking down on foreign companies that illegally avoid paying millions of dollars in customs duties. The Customs Training Enhancement Act will facilitate the sharing of information between the private sector and U.S. Customs and Border Protection, enabling the government to do a better job of identifying schemes that cheat American taxpayers by importing foreign goods without paying duties. The bill, which was folded into Democratic and Republican versions of more comprehensive Customs legislation in the previous Congress, further advances Rep. Lipinski’s goal of leveling the playing field so American businesses have a fairer shot against their foreign competitors. “Blatant cheating by foreign firms has become more widespread at a time when American employers and workers are already at a serious disadvantage. This is not only bad for American business, but it hurts taxpayers by robbing the federal government of taxes it is rightfully owed,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Customs Training Enhancement Act offers a commonsense approach by allowing impacted industries to provide our Customs agents the critical intelligence they need to spot the cheaters.” Since 2001, importers and exporters of goods into the United States have avoided paying $600 million in duties, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office, which estimates that 90 percent of all transshipped or mislabeled items originated in China. Foreign companies have avoided duties by misclassifying and undervaluing products or by shipping goods from one country to another on their way to the United States in order to disguise the country of origin. Under Rep. Lipinski’s bill, Customs and Border Protection would be required to seek out companies and trade groups that have information that can identify misrepresented shipments. That information, in turn, would be shared directly from these industry experts to Customs agents working on the front lines. The Customs Training Enhancement Act is modeled on a successful program forged between the steel industry and Customs and Border Protection in which company and industry officials have taught Customs agents how to spot products that have been deliberately mislabeled. “The steel industry has shown us a public-private partnership that saves taxpayers millions of dollars while costing the federal government very few, if any, resources,” Lipinski said. “We need to expand this program and fight back against the lying and cheating by foreign companies that are hurting American taxpayers, businesses, and workers. The Customs Training Enhancement Act is an important first step.”
03.19.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), in a continuation of his efforts to improve and expand service on Metra’s Heritage Corridor Line, met with officials from Metra and lawyers from the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to discuss the options available for putting more pressure on Canadian National Railway (CN) to allow Metra to run more trains on the line. Rep. Lipinski, the senior member from Illinois on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, also had requested of CN, the Canadian company that owns and manages the Heritage Corridor Line, that CEO Claude Mongeau come to a meeting to discuss improving commuter service. CN said the company had no one available to participate in the meeting with Metra and the STB. “After spending many months and countless hours fighting to get Heritage Corridor riders the service they deserve, I am left with no other choice but to begin exploring next steps, including legislative action that could give Metra more power to force CN to accommodate additional Metra trains on its tracks,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Early last year I was able to get CN to sit down with Metra to discuss improving on-time performance on the line and the performance has been much improved. “But for more than two years I have been working with all of the stakeholders along the line to find a solution that allows one more Metra train in the morning and one more train in the evening. This is a modest request that would still put the level of service on the Heritage Corridor far below Metra’s other commuter lines. Metra and two dozen local officials have been supportive in this effort, but CN has continued to drag its feet. CN continues to cite a study that they conducted themselves to claim that $150 million of infrastructure improvements would need to be made to add six trains. While that study is questionable on its own, we are now only asking for the addition of two trains, not six. “Disagreements between Metra and freight railroads in the region have generally been settled in the past through discussion. I am hopeful that we can still come together in the public’s interest so we can improve access to jobs and long-term economic development throughout the region.” While Lipinski is exploring options for legislative action to empower commuter rail lines in disputes with freight railroads, Metra is considering its options under current federal law and regulations. There is precedent for commuter rail lines bringing disputes with freight railroads to the Surface Transportation Board and working out solutions to improve options for commuters. The Heritage Corridor Line, running between Joliet and Chicago’s Union Station, with stops in Lockport, Lemont, Willow Springs, Summit and plans for a new Romeoville station in the works, currently operates just six trains a day -- three inbound in the morning and three outbound in the evening. Metra’s other routes offer between 22 and 170 trains a day, leaving a major mass transit gap in the southwest suburbs, despite strong ridership growth on the Heritage Corridor Line over the last decade. In 2012, the line served 682,819 riders, up from 567,342 just 10 years earlier. Under his leadership, Rep. Lipinski recently was joined by more than 20 local officials, including Metra Chairman Brad O’Halloran, in urging CN to accommodate expanded service in order to expand the commuting options and enhance the employment opportunities and quality of life for the region’s residents. Rep. Lipinski also led an earlier push to improve the line’s reliability and on-time performance. Working successfully with Metra and CN, Rep. Lipinski helped to improve Heritage Corridor’s average on-time performance from 86.2 percent in 2011 to 95.6 percent in 2012.
03.14.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Rep. Ed Whitfield, (KY-1) have introduced bipartisan legislation known as the "Waterways are Vital for the Economy, Energy, Efficiency, and Environment Act" (WAVE 4). This bill would ensure that America’s inland waterway system can meet the current and future demands of the 21st century economy. WAVE 4 is also co-sponsored by Representatives Spencer Bachus (AL-6), Bill Cassidy (LA-6), and Pete Olson (TX-22). “Efficient and reliable transportation of goods on our inland waterways is essential to economic development, job creation, and remaining competitive in the global marketplace,” stated Whitfield. “Our aging infrastructure jeopardizes efficient waterborne commerce and highlights the need for the WAVE4 Act that will implement a comprehensive plan to improve project management and put in place an objective investment strategy that will prioritize our infrastructure needs.” "A healthy, vibrant inland waterways system is vital to the movement of goods and materials in this country and essential to connecting our business and industry to the global marketplace. An efficient, well-functioning waterways system also improves quality of life for our communities by keeping trucks off the road and reducing congestion on our highways," said Rep. Lipinski. "This bill ensures that all of the key stakeholders are working together to use our resources wisely and prioritize the projects that will benefit the waterways industry and the economy as a whole. I am happy to take leadership in helping to introduce this bill that will help develop a comprehensive plan to strengthen the inland waterways system and make it a viable shipping option for future generations." “You cannot have a first-world economy with a third-world infrastructure,” stated Bachus. “Our inland waterways make up an important part of our transportation system and the act will keep this vital network in sound operating condition.” “Louisiana’s ports are doorways to the world that create thousands of jobs and economic opportunity. As such our locks and dams must be maintained and upgraded to promote commerce and prevent flooding,” stated Rep. Cassidy M.D. “This bill will ensure America's waterway infrastructure is strengthened and improved. It will also guarantee that the building costs and regulations facing local stakeholders are reasonable and that projects which prevent flooding and save lives are prioritized. It deserves the support of Congress and the President.” "Our nation must address the aging infrastructure of the inland waterways system if we want to compete in the global marketplace of the 21st century,” stated Rep. Pete Olson. “The Texas portion of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway stretches for 423 miles and handles up to 90 million tons of freight annually. This bill will make improvements to the funding and management of inland waterways projects, and it will address the large backlog of construction and maintenance needs. WAVE 4 is important to the economic growth of the Texas and the country as a whole." Whitfield believes that it is not possible to have reliable transportation for the 21st century on the foundation of early 20th century construction. Many locks and dams around the country are as much as 80 years old. Furthermore, a vast majority of these locks are operating well beyond their intended lifespan and experiencing an alarming increase in scheduled and emergency closures as a result of their conditions. WAVE 4 will ensure the availability and reliability of the locks and dams which comprise the nation’s inland waterways. WAVE 4 proposes a comprehensive, long-term inland waterway system modernization plan based on collaborative recommendations of a team of inland navigation private sector stakeholders and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Without significant changes to the current dam and lock system, only six inland waterways projects will be constructed, while other long-awaiting projects continue deteriorating. Specifically, WAVE 4 will: *Prioritize the completion of navigation projects across the entire system; *Improve the Corps of Engineers’ project management and processes to deliver projects on time and on budget; *Reform project cost allocations; and *Recommend an affordable and sustainable mechanism to address the backlog of needed construction and rehabilitation.
03.14.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), joined by Sens. Mark Kirk (IL) and Dick Durbin (IL), along with Rep. Randy Hultgren (IL-14), unveiled legislation today that would end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes by 2033. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act increases fines to up to $100,000 a day per violation and provides communities 20 years to upgrade their sewage treatment facilities. “The Great Lakes are our region’s most precious natural resource and we must do more to protect them. We cannot continue to allow the dumping of billions of gallons of raw sewage in the waters we use for drinking, swimming, boating, and fishing,” Rep. Lipinski said. “By imposing penalties that will not only deter dumping but will help pay for infrastructure improvements that will help alleviate future dumping, this bill provides the type of innovative, bipartisan, bicameral action that we need to see more of in Washington.” Money collected from fines would flow to a Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund to generate financial resources for the Great Lakes states to improve wastewater treatment options, habitat protection and wastewater treatment systems. In addition, the legislation would make it easier to assess fines at existing levels, beginning a year after the bill's passage. “We need to protect Lake Michigan, the crown jewel of the Midwest and the source of drinking water for millions,” Sen. Kirk said. “This bipartisan, bicameral bill is the right approach to stop polluters from dumping sewage in the Great Lakes.” “We are faced with many challenges when trying to protect the health and safety of the Great Lakes – from invasive species to air pollution around Lake Michigan,” Sen. Durbin said. “This legislation tackles another significant threat to the water system – municipal sewage. I will continue to work closely with Senator Kirk and Congressmen Lipinski and Hultgren to ensure that this national treasure is around for generations, providing drinking water, recreation and commerce for Illinois and other Great Lakes states.” “Protecting the quality of the Great Lakes is essential for Illinois families,” Rep. Hultgren said. “This bill addresses a critical public health concern and demonstrates how Congress can work together effectively to preserve our natural resources and improve the quality of life for families throughout the Midwest.” Cities around the Great Lakes Basin continue to dump directly into the Great Lakes and their tributaries. Reports estimate that 24 billion gallons of sewage are dumped into the Great Lakes each year, posing environmental, financial and public health hazards. Decreased water quality can pose serious risks to public health and can contribute to beach closures and swim advisories along freshwater beaches. Data from the Illinois Department of Public Health shows that Lake Michigan beaches continue to be inundated with hundreds of beach closures and contamination advisories each year. A University of Chicago study concluded the closings due to high levels of harmful pathogens like E.coli cost the local economy about $2.4 million each year in lost revenue.
03.14.2013	Today, the House Science, Space and Technology Committee unanimously approved the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2013 (H.R. 756), a bipartisan bill introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) that serves as an important first step in helping protect American military and economic interests from cyber threats. Approval of the bill comes just days after Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, told Congress that the danger of cyber attacks and cyber espionage on crucial infrastructure tops the list of global threats. The bill, the first cyber legislation to pass through any committee this Congress, is now cleared for consideration on the House floor. “When I first began working on this bill, I had no doubt that our use of the Internet and other communication networks would continue to grow and evolve, and that threats from hackers, criminal syndicates and even other governments would grow and evolve, too. I probably underestimated just how much that would prove to be true,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I believe that we face the possibility of a cyber ‘Pearl Harbor’ that could destroy America’s military and economic security. We have already seen the loss of countless jobs through cyber espionage and we face – and thankfully, so far, have repelled – much worse attacks every day. It is now more important than ever that we get this legislation across the finish line and onto the President’s desk.” “Threats to the homeland are evolving and so too must our defenses,” said Rep. McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. “I believe this is the Congress when we will finally address in a meaningful way the serious cybersecurity challenges our nation faces, including research and development, which is the focus of this important legislation. The stakes are too high for us not to act.” The legislation passed the House in 2012 and 2010 with overwhelming bipartisan support. The bill: • Improves coordination in government, providing for a strategic plan to assess the cybersecurity risk and guide the overall direction of federal cyber research and development. • Updates the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) responsibilities to develop security standards to harden our federal networks and processes for agencies to follow. • Establishes a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development, improve training of cyber professionals. • Continues much-needed cybersecurity research and development programs at the National Science Foundation and NIST.
03.08.2013	Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is inviting high school students from the 3rd Congressional District to participate in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The winning piece will be displayed in the Capitol complex in Washington, D.C., for visitors to view for the next year. The winner also receives two roundtrip tickets to Washington for the exhibition opening this summer. The runner-up will have their artwork displayed in Rep. Lipinski's Washington office for one year. The competition is open to all students in grades 9 through 12 who reside in the 3rd Congressional District. Entries must be received at Rep. Lipinski’s district offices in Chicago at 6245 S. Archer Ave.; Oak Lawn at 5309 W. 95th St.; Orland Park at 14700 Ravinia Ave.; and Lockport at 222. E. 9th St. A high-resolution file also may be emailed to krsto.culafic@mail.house.gov. Artwork, which also includes photography and computer-generated art, must be received no later than April 15. Interested students should submit one original piece of two-dimensional work no bigger than 28 inches by 28 inches by 4 inches when framed. For more information, including contest guidelines and student information and release forms, visit www.lipinski.house.gov/congressional-art-competition, or call the congressman’s Chicago office at 312-886-0481. “Every year when reviewing entries for the Congressional Art Competition, I am amazed by the talent and imagination of the students in our district,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I encourage all students, parents and teachers to urge young artists to share their artwork for the 2013 competition. I am excited to see what our next generation of artists comes up with this year.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Last year, Abigail Best, of La Grange, was chosen as the winner from the 3rd Congressional District. Her winning piece, Time Part IV, is currently one of those featured on the Congressional Art Competition website, www.conginst.org/art-competition.
03.06.2013	Today in the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) honored Polish and American freedom fighter Casimir Pulaski, who was born on this day in 1745. To celebrate Pulaski Day, observed on the first Monday in March in Rep. Lipinski’s home state of Illinois, the congressman was a recent guest of the Polish Highlanders Alliance at their headquarters in Chicago’s Archer Heights community as they paid tribute to the Revolutionary War hero and honored the relationship between Poland and the United States. Rep. Lipinski’s statement in the House noted that Pulaski, in his first correspondence to George Washington, famously wrote, “I came here, where freedom is being defended, to serve it, and to live or die for it.” Rep. Lipinski continued, “Today Pulaski is remembered as the father of the American cavalry and one of the heroes of the American Revolution. He has been memorialized across America, through the naming of towns, counties, roads and other landmarks.” Since 2005, Rep. Lipinski has represented Illinois’ 3rd Congressional District, home to more than 100,000 Polish-Americans, one of the highest numbers for any congressional district in the country. He is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, championing causes dear to Polish-Americans. He has been a strong proponent of admitting Poland to the Visa Waiver Program so that Polish citizens would no longer have to go through a very difficult process to visit the United States. Rep. Lipinski’s office has helped hundreds of Polish-American constituents gain visas for their relatives in order to attend weddings, baptisms, and other family events. In 2009, Rep. Lipinski helped lead the successful effort to make Pulaski an honorary U.S. citizen, marking only the seventh time in American history that an individual has been granted such an honor.
03.06.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced his strong support as the lead Democratic cosponsor for the Health Care Conscience Rights Act (H.R. 940) introduced this week in the House. This bill, sponsored by Rep. Diane Black (TN), would guarantee Americans’ rights of conscience in regard to health care, including full exemption from the Health and Human Services’ (HHS) abortion-drug and contraception mandate and conscience protection for individuals and health care entities that refuse to provide, pay for, or refer patients to abortion providers because of their deeply-held, reasoned beliefs. “The Health Care Conscience Rights Act is needed to protect some of the most fundamental rights for all Americans: the rights to religious liberty and conscience,” said Lipinski, co-chair of the Congressional Pro-life Caucus. “We still have not seen changes to the HHS mandate that would ensure these freedoms are preserved. I am proud to help lead the fight on this legislation and call on my colleagues in the House and Senate to take swift action.” Rep. Lipinski has been a leading opponent of the HHS mandate in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that would force all employers including religious-affiliated institutions (except churches) to provide insurance coverage that includes birth control and abortion-inducing drugs. In the previous Congress, he cosponsored the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, the predecessor of the Health Care Conscience Rights Act introduced this week. He also was the lead Democratic cosponsor of other critical pro-life pieces of legislation, including the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act and the Protect Life Act. “Since the HHS mandate was first introduced, we have needed a rule that protects religious liberty by allowing employers to provide health insurance coverage that does not include abortion drugs and other services that violate their conscience,” Lipinski said. “The administration has given us two attempts at compromises that really are no compromises at all. I am hopeful that the Health Care Conscience Rights Act will end the false compromise game once and for all, preserving the basic American freedoms that protect individuals to practice their beliefs as they choose.”
03.01.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that the Bedford Park Fire Department has received a $224,007 grant from the Department of Homeland Security to purchase new equipment to assist firefighters responding to fires and incidents involving hazardous materials. The grant will allow the department to acquire 44 self-contained breathing apparatus, including facemasks for every member of the department, spare air tanks and two additional special rescue kits that supply breathing air to trapped firefighters. “Our first responders play a critical role in keeping our communities safe. Providing them with the equipment they need to do their jobs is one of my highest priorities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m proud to announce this grant that will improve safety at the Bedford Park Fire Department and better serve the residents and businesses of Bedford Park.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In the 2012 fiscal year, the program will award approximately $337.5 million to fire departments and EMS organizations nationwide to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel. “We appreciate Rep. Lipinski’s assistance with this grant that will allow us to upgrade equipment vital to the safety of the men and women of the Bedford Park Fire Department,” said Bedford Park Mayor David Brady. “The addition of the new self-contained breathing apparatus will not only help protect our firefighters, but it will ensure that our residents continue to receive the quality service they expect from their fire department.” For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, visit www.fema.gov/welcome-assistance-firefighters-grant-program.
02.28.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on passage of the Violence Against Women Act: “Today I voted in favor of S. 47, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. Since the Violence Against Women Act was first passed in 1994, the law has nobly served the goal of helping to protect victims of domestic violence and prosecute offenders by providing victims and law enforcement the resources, training, and assistance they need. In addition to maintaining the crucial protections offered to victims, the bill is an improvement from the previous law by providing for a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases and addressing the problem of domestic violence on college campuses. “My enthusiasm for the bill, however, was tempered by some flaws in accompanying legislation. My primary concern was the lack of a conscience protection clause in the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act that was included in today’s vote. By not adding a conscience protection clause, the Health and Human Services Department still will be allowed to deny grants and discriminate against organizations that seek to protect trafficking victims solely on the basis that they do not provide referrals for abortions. This has already occurred, when a victim protection grant to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) was denied in 2011, even though the organization was previously the sole grantee and had received high scores in the grant review. The reason for the decision was that USCCB does not provide or refer for abortion or contraception. “This concern led me to vote in favor of the House amendment to S. 47. While the amendment was certainly flawed and in some ways inferior to S. 47, passage of the amendment would have led to a Conference Committee between the House and Senate in which the conscience protections could have been added and a superior bill could have been crafted. After the amendment failed, I believed that it was important to vote in favor of S. 47 so that we would finally end the delays and reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. “Today, I helped introduce legislation, H.R. 898, that would reauthorize the Trafficking Victims Protection Act and include conscience protection, preventing the continued discrimination against any grantee that does or does not make abortion referrals. The bill also would increase the level of federal attention to the global problem of human trafficking. I am hopeful moving forward that we can strengthen the laws protecting victims of human trafficking and do a better job of providing care and support.”
02.26.2013	The House Science, Space and Technology Subcommittees on Research and Technology today held a joint hearing on cybersecurity research and development, in which Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) unveiled the reintroduction of H.R. 756, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2013. The legislation, supported by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, passed the House in 2012 and 2010 with overwhelming bipartisan support. The bill: · Improves coordination in government, providing for a strategic plan to assess the cybersecurity risk and guide the overall direction of federal cyber research and development. · Updates the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) responsibilities to develop security standards for federal computer systems and processes for agencies to follow. · Establishes a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development, improves training of cyber professionals. · Continues much-needed cybersecurity research and development programs at the National Science Foundation and NIST. “Every day we are reminded of the threat cybercrime poses to individuals, families, businesses, government, and our national security, including last week’s report showing that the Chinese government is attacking American businesses and workers through economic espionage. We cannot allow this to continue,” said Rep. Lipinski, ranking member of the Research Subcommittee. “The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act will help ensure we have the highly skilled people and the cutting-edge research and technologies we need to protect not only our critical infrastructure, federal and military computer networks, but also businesses and the general public. Congress needs to recognize the daily threat we live under and pass this legislation as soon as possible to prevent further losses to individuals, businesses, and the economy as a whole.” “I believe this is the Congress when we will finally address in a meaningful way the serious cybersecurity challenges our nation faces, including research and development,” said Rep. McCaul. “The stakes are too high for us not to act. It is not a question of if, but when, a cyber Pear Harbor will occur and that’s why I have worked to bolster our nation’s cybersecurity research and development through the bipartisan Cybersecurity Enhancement Act.” Several bipartisan members of the panel voiced their welcomed support for the reintroduction of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, followed by strong praise from industry and university representatives who gave testimony on the challenges and opportunities facing U.S. cybersecurity research and development. “Cyber attacks threaten our national and economic security. To solve this problem, America needs a solution that involves the cooperation of many public and private sector entities. The Lipinski-McCaul legislation helps foster such an effort, which will make our computer systems more secure,” said Chairman Smith. Dr. Frederick Chang, the President and Chief Operating Officer of 21CT, Inc., an Austin-based company, told the committee: “If I could pick two things that are critical to improving the nation’s cybersecurity posture, it would be research and development and workforce development, and so this legislation is right on target to addressing the top tier problems.” “This bill does no harm and it does good work,” said Michael Barrett, the Chief Information Security Officer at Pay Pal, Inc.
02.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today he will be introducing a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week. As one of the few members of Congress with an engineering degree, Congressman Lipinski introduces this resolution each year in order to highlight the critical role that engineers play in building our nation and the need to encourage more young people to pursue engineering degrees. “Engineering is problem solving, and we need engineers to help solve many of the problems that our nation and our world face today,” Lipinski said. “Engineers are working to bring us cheaper and cleaner energy. They are making us safer on the roads and in the air. And they are helping to design and produce other life-saving devices. Engineers play a tremendously important part in our society.” Sponsored by the National Engineers Week Foundation and running from Feb. 17 to Feb. 23, National Engineers Week brings thousands of engineers into K-12 classrooms across the county and highlights the vital contributions made by engineers to our quality of life and economic prosperity. Among the programs to inspire kids and introduce them to engineering are Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day and the national finals of the Future City Competition for middle school students. This year’s theme for National Engineers Week is “Celebrate Awesome.” “Surveys have shown that teenagers are more likely to consider a degree in engineering after learning about what engineers do,” continued Lipinski. “Although just 4 percent of the country’s work force is composed of engineers and scientists, they create the jobs for the other 96 percent. We owe it to our children and ourselves to get them interested in science, technology, engineering and math. That’s why calling attention to this fascinating field and career opportunities during National Engineers Week is so important.” As one of the few engineers in Congress, a former educator, and ranking member of the Research Subcommittee of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Rep. Lipinski has pushed for improvements in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education throughout his career. Rep. Lipinski is a strong believer that improving STEM education at all levels is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world and creates jobs that meet our needs for future generations. When he was chairman of the Research Subcommittee , Rep. Lipinski worked to reauthorize the America COMPETES Act, first passed in 2007 in response to the National Academies report warning that America risked losing its place as the world’s scientific and technological leader unless it took action. A copy of Rep. Lipinski’s resolution is attached. For more information on National Engineers Week, visit www.eweek.org.
02.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today called on both sides in Washington to stop the blame game and get to work to stop the across-the-board budget cuts scheduled to take effect March 1. The deep cuts that would take place under the sequester threaten to further damage the country's fragile economy and put another hit on the middle class while also undercutting our military readiness. Lipinski called on Congress to replace the sequester with a responsible debt reduction package based on the bipartisan $2.4 trillion deficit reduction plan unveiled this week by Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles. "The sequester uses a meat cleaver when a scalpel should be used. It's not the way to go about responsibly reducing our deficit," Rep. Lipinski said. "If we do nothing between now and March 1, we will make $85 billion in sweeping cuts without choosing between necessary and wasteful programs. It will also hurt our slow economic recovery and threaten our military readiness. This is irresponsible. "I believe we have an opportunity, as we did with the fiscal cliff, to chart a bold new course that reduces our debt, strengthens entitlements, and reforms the tax code. The new Simpson-Bowles plan offers a roadmap." Released on Tuesday, the new Simpson-Bowles plan would reduce the federal deficit by an estimated additional $2.4 trillion over the next 10 years through a combination of spending cuts, new revenue, and tax reform. The new plan updates the first Simpson-Bowles proposal released in 2010 as part National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. A year ago, Rep. Lipinski helped bring to the House floor a budget based on the Simpson-Bowles recommendations and was one of a "Brave 38" in the House who supported it, earning him the Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award from the Concord Coalition, honoring those who have demonstrated a commitment to fiscal responsibility. "While today's updated Simpson-Bowles plan is not perfect, I believe it is the best model to not only avoid the sequester, but to also stabilize our national debt, which threatens our economy," Lipinski said. "The purpose of the sequester was to put into place budget cuts that would be unacceptable to both Democrats and Republicans; the assumption was that this would coerce both sides to sit down at the bargaining table and agree to a compromise debt reduction plan. After failing for a year and a half to come to an agreement on a plan, on Jan. 1 we avoided the sequester by kicking the can down the road for two months. So here we are again, and both sides seem to be content to try to pin the blame on the other party. This is a disgrace. We must reduce our debt, but no one believes the sequester is good policy. Simpson and Bowles have given us an outline. Now let’s stop the posturing and get to work for the American people.”
02.15.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he will be holding a grand opening on Thursday, Feb. 21, for his new 3rd Congressional District office at Orland Park’s Village Hall. The congressman will be joined by Mayor Dan McLaughlin and other local officials for a ceremonial ribbon cutting at 9 a.m. In keeping with the congressman’s goal of locating his district offices in close proximity to local government offices, the Orland Park office, which opened earlier this month, is in the same building with satellite offices of the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs and the Illinois Secretary of State, as well as the Village of Orland Park, providing area residents with convenient access to their elected officials and all of the services they provide. Orland Park’s Village Hall is also adjacent to the Orland Township administrative offices and the many services offered by the township. “As an elected official who strives to be involved in the communities I represent, I am excited to have a new office in Orland Park’s Village Hall,” Lipinski said. “I am committed to being accessible to all my constituents and providing top-notch constituent services. My staff is ready to assist with various federal concerns, including issues with Social Security and Medicare, veterans’ benefits, and helping arrange visits to Washington, D.C. I look forward to hearing about your challenges and ideas to improve the 3rd Congressional District. My door is always open.” The new office is directly across from the offices of Mayor McLaughlin on the first floor of Village Hall, 14700 Ravinia Ave., in Orland Park. The hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. No appointments are necessary. “We’re happy to welcome Congressman Lipinski to the Village Hall,” Mayor McLaughlin said. “His having an office here will make it very convenient for Orland Park residents who live in the 3rd Congressional District to stop in for information and help.” The 3rd Congressional District includes parts of Chicago, southwest Cook County and northeastern Will County. As an added convenience for constituents, an announcement on new mobile office locations and hours will be made in the coming weeks. For more information on Rep. Lipinski and the services his offices provide, please visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
02.14.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) presents members of Lockport Township High School’s athletic department and boys bowling coaching staff with a copy of the statement he made in the House of Representatives honoring the Lockport Township High School boys bowling team for their victory at the state championship tournament. The statement congratulates the Porters for their first ever Illinois High School Association title in boys bowling and notes how the “victory is a reminder of how preparation, practice, and perseverance produce solid results, even when facing difficult challenges.” Rep. Lipinski presented (appearing in photo from left to right) Assistant Coach Roger McDaniel, Head Coach Jeff Wyatt and Athletic Director Brian Goff with a copy of the statement at the congressman’s district office in Lockport’s Central Square.
02.08.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on the Department of Health and Human Service’s latest proposal to amend the rule announced last year that requires all employers to provide insurance that includes coverage of abortion drugs, sterilization, and contraceptives. This is the second time the Obama Administration has announced a change in the rule that is supposed to “accommodate” those employers who do not want to implement part of the HHS mandate that would force them to violate their personal religious convictions. “I continue to be disappointed and, frankly, puzzled by the administration’s second proposed ‘accommodation’ for employers who have objections to parts of the HHS mandate based on their religious beliefs. After a year of consideration by HHS, this proposal appears to do little more than the inadequate one announced last year and would still require employers to provide coverage for abortion drugs, sterilization, and contraception even if doing so violated their conscience and religious beliefs. Despite the fact that this proposed rule is 80 pages long, it still leaves many questions unanswered about which religious organizations may be exempted from the mandate and how exactly the mandate will be implemented. It seems we will not know that until the rule is finalized in April. But this proposal does make it perfectly clear that the Administration does not understand religious liberty to be the right of individuals to practice their beliefs and many employers will still have their religious liberty violated by this rule no matter what is done in the next two months to clarify it. As the Chicago Tribune accurately pointed out in its Feb. 3 editorial, the latest rewording of the mandate is ‘all an attempt to conceal the blatant reality that religiously affiliated employers will be implicated, financially and otherwise, in the provision of something they find morally objectionable. It’s another fig leaf and, again, it’s not convincing.’ The bottom line remains that the fundamental First Amendment guarantee of the free exercise of religion preserves the right for any employer to not be forced to participate in activities that go against their beliefs. Religious liberty in America cannot be compromised. As the Tribune editorial noted: ‘That’s precisely the sort of thing the First Amendment was written to prevent. It is a vital mandate that the Obama administration should respect – but, with every so-called compromise on this issue, stubbornly flouts.’”
02.07.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), ranking member of the Research Subcommittee of the Science, Space & Technology Committee, issued the following statement today on the departure of National Science Foundation Director Subra Suresh: "During his tenure at the National Science Foundation, Dr. Subra Suresh was a leader in expanding interdisciplinary research and international science cooperation, two important steps needed for the American research community. He also understood the need to continue strong support for basic research while also supporting innovative ways to spur technology transfer. I certainly appreciated his leadership and vision when we established NSF’s Innovation Corps program, which is utilizing experienced entrepreneurs and venture capitalists to teach NSF research grant award winners how to be entrepreneurial. I know the work done by Dr. Suresh will provide a solid foundation for his successor to build upon. I wish Dr. Suresh all the best in his next position as president of Carnegie Mellon University."
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON – Building on President Obama’s efforts to help more students excel in math and science and his call for investments in a skilled American workforce, U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Illinois Congressman Dan Lipinski announced today that Edward Hurley Elementary School from Chicago won the Chicago Regional Middle School Science Bowl on Saturday, which was sponsored by the University of Illinois at Chicago Minority STEM Alumni. Edward Hurley Elementary School competed against 16 other teams from across the region in one of the nation’s regional competitions of the 23rd Annual U.S. Department of Energy National Science Bowl, and is now eligible to compete in the National Finals in Washington, D.C., at the end of April. The National Science Bowl brings together thousands of middle and high school students from across the country to compete on a range of science disciplines including biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, astronomy, and math. “Congratulations to the students at Edward Hurley Elementary School for their achievements in science, technology, engineering and math,” said Energy Secretary Chu. “Providing opportunities like the National Science Bowl to challenge today’s students is an essential part of keeping America competitive in a rapidly advancing world.” "I want to wish the best of luck to the students of Edward Hurley Elementary School as they continue their impressive run to the finals of the National Science Bowl," said Congressman Dan Lipinski, who represents the Southwest Side school and co-chairs the House STEM Education Caucus. "Their skills have allowed them to compete with some of the country's best and brightest students. Their interest in math and science will only serve to reward them in the future as they move forward with their schooling and careers." The Department of Energy (DOE) created the National Science Bowl in 1991 to encourage students to excel in mathematics and science and to pursue careers in these fields. More than 200,000 students have participated in the National Science Bowl throughout its 22 year history, and it is the nation’s largest science competition. Over the next several months, more than 9,000 high school students and 5,000 middle school students will compete in 70 high school and 48 middle school regional Science Bowl tournaments. Students, in teams of four or five, compete in a fast-paced Jeopardy-style format where they solve technical problems and answer questions in all branches of science and math. Most teams are coached by teachers from the students’ schools and spend several months preparing for the regional competitions. Many states have one regional or statewide Science Bowl competition, while larger states, such as California and Texas, hold several regional competitions across their states. Students from Edward Hurley Elementary School will be awarded an all-expense paid trip to the National Finals in Washington, D.C., which are scheduled for April 25-29, 2013. The regional tournaments, which host 15-50 teams, are sponsored by federal agencies, national laboratories, institutions of education, and non-profit organizations. DOE’s Office of Science manages the competition. More information about these events is available on the National Science Bowl website: http://www.science.energy.gov/nsb/.
02.04.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski, as a tribute to baseball’s greatest Polish-American player, has joined as a co-sponsor of H.R. 420, a bill that would name the new Interstate 70 bridge over the Mississippi River in the St. Louis area the Stan Musial Memorial Bridge. "As a proud Polish-American and lifelong baseball fan, I am honored to co-sponsor legislation that would pay tribute to someone who remains a larger-than-life hero to us in the Polish-American community. Stan Musial was much more than one of the game's greatest players. He was a U.S. Navy and World War II veteran, a Presidential Medal of Freedom winner, and the first inductee into the National Polish-American Sports Hall of Fame," Rep. Lipinski said. "While the Hall of Fame numbers -- 3,630 hits and a lifetime .331 average to go along with three World Series titles with the St. Louis Cardinals -- speak for themselves, his recent passing is especially poignant. In a year when no baseball player was voted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame because of lingering questions about cheating and activities that tarnished the reputation of the game, Musial's character remains unquestioned. As broadcaster Bob Costas said, ‘All Musial represents is more than two decades of sustained excellence and complete decency as a human being.’ He was ‘Stan the Man.’" Rep. Lipinski, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, represents Illinois' 3rd Congressional District, home to more than 100,000 Polish-Americans, one of the highest numbers for any congressional district in the United States. The bridge carrying I-70 traffic between Illinois and Missouri is expected to open in 2014. Sponsoring H.R. 420 is U.S. Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13). Joining Rep. Lipinski as co-sponsors are Reps. John Shimkus (IL-15) and Ann Wagner (MO-2).
01.31.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he is the newest member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of fiscally responsible House Democrats committed to promoting commonsense, moderate policies that keep America strong. In accepting Rep. Lipinski into their ranks, his fellow Blue Dog members noted the congressman's work in bringing people together to solve problems and his leadership in fighting for fiscal discipline in Washington. "The federal government has built up an unacceptable level of debt and faces an even worse debt problem in the future if we do not change current policies. I have pursued a sensible, responsible approach to fixing our budget problems and bringing our skyrocketing debt under control. I am excited to join the Blue Dog Coalition in order to help me expand on those efforts," Rep. Lipinski said. "In the coming weeks, we are facing tough decisions in Congress regarding the sequestration budget cuts, the possibility of a federal government shutdown at the end of March, and the debt ceiling. I am eager to work with my fellow Blue Dogs to tackle these important issues." Rep. Lipinski has been a champion of fiscal discipline and responsibility in Congress. Last year, he was one of a bipartisan group of nine members who brought to the House floor a budget based on the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles Fiscal Responsibility and Reform Commission. This budget would have reduced the national debt by $4 trillion over 10 years through spending cuts and new revenue. Rep. Lipinski recently was named by the nonpartisan grassroots No Labels organization as one of the congressional Problem Solvers charged with making Congress work again on behalf of the American people. "Never have America's problems looks so big, and Congress looked so small. I'm glad to welcome Congressman Lipinski to the Blue Dogs," said U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN). "We need more thoughtful members like him who are willing to work across the aisle for the good of the country." "The Blue Dogs are proud to welcome into their ranks Dan Lipinski, who is a well-respected, hardworking and fiscally responsible member of Congress," said U.S. Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR). "Dan will add an even stronger voice to the Blue Dogs as we find bipartisan, commonsense solutions to help fix the ongoing fiscal crisis in Washington. Just as we have done since our inception, the Blue Dog Coalition will continue to represent political moderates across this nation and we stand ready and willing to work with whoever it takes to get the job done." For more information on the Blue Dog Coalition, click here.
01.29.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), the most senior member from northeastern Illinois on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, issued the following statement today on the departure of Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood: "Ray LaHood has been a true public servant during his seven terms in the House and his four years as Secretary of Transportation. He is well-respected by everyone because of the way he brings people together to get things done for the public good. That is how Ray distinguished himself as both a Representative and as Transportation Secretary. I certainly enjoyed working with Ray during our days together in the House and during his service as Secretary. The state and the nation -- especially our transportation system -- are better off because of his service."
01.25.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski announced today that he will host two Town Hall Meetings – in Lockport and Orland Park – and three Senior Fairs – in Lemont, Orland Hills and Mount Greenwood –in February. At the Town Hall Meetings, Third District residents will be able to hear from Rep. Lipinski about his work on their behalf at home and in Washington, as well as ask questions and give their thoughts on federal issues. Staff from the congressman’s office will be available beginning one hour prior to the start of the meeting to provide assistance with Medicare, Social Security, veterans’ benefits, and other federal matters. The Senior Fairs will give seniors in the district a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from Rep. Lipinski’s staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses that provide services to seniors. "I want to personally extend an invitation to the residents of the 3rd Congressional District to my upcoming Town Hall Meetings and Senior Fairs. As your representative in Washington and someone who strives to improve the quality of life in the communities I serve, it is critical that I hear from you," Rep. Lipinski said. "These events will be fantastic opportunities for you to get help on federal programs and to hear about the wide array of constituent services my office provides. It is my privilege to serve you. I am eager to offer my assistance and hear your ideas." The dates and times for the Town Hall Meetings and Senior Fairs are as follows: Town Hall Meetings Saturday, Feb. 9 9 - 10 :30 a.m. Lockport Central Square 222 E. 9th St., 3rd Floor Lockport, IL 60441 11:30 a.m. - 1 p.m. Orland Township Administrative Offices 14807 S. Ravinia Ave. Orland Park, IL 60462 Staff will be available one hour before the meetings begin to assist with constituent needs and questions. Senior Fairs Monday, Feb. 11 10 a.m. - noon Orland Hills Recreation Department 16553 S. Haven Ave. Orland Hills, Ill. 60487 Monday, Feb. 18 10 a.m. - noon Lemont Park District CORE Building 16028 W. 127th St. Lemont, Ill. 60439 Thursday, Feb. 21 9:30 - 11:30 a.m. Mount Greenwood Park 3721 W. 111th St. Chicago, Ill. 60655 At Rep. Lipinski's Senior Fairs, seniors can get help from his staff with federal issues and benefits. Numerous organizations that work with seniors also will be available to provide assistance. For more information, visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
01.25.2013	Congressman Dan Lipinski introduced a resolution this week in the U.S. House of Representatives praising the outstanding work of Catholic schools and honoring National Catholic Schools Week. This year’s theme for Catholic Schools Week – which runs from Jan. 27 to Feb. 2 – is “Catholic Schools Raise the Standards.” Rep. Lipinski’s resolution, H.Res. 46, expresses support for “the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States” and “the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the nation.” It recognizes that Catholic schools produce academically successful students, foster a commitment to service, family and community, and accept students from all faiths and backgrounds. This is the seventh year in a row the congressman has introduced a resolution honoring National Catholic Schools Week. “As a proud graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep, I look forward to highlighting the achievements of America’s Catholic schools every year during Catholic Schools Week,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Chicago Archdiocese and the Joliet Diocese run two of the best school systems in the country. Visiting the students, teachers, and administrators at these schools reminds me of how blessed we are to have so many great Catholic schools in our communities. “America’s Catholic schools produce graduates that have the skills and strength of character needed by our businesses, governments, and communities. In the 2011-12 school year, the total Catholic school student enrollment was more than 2 million, with an outstanding student-teacher ratio of 13 to 1. Catholic school students, on average, surpass other students in math, science, and reading achievement, and the graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent, with 85 percent of graduates going on to four-year colleges. Today, more than 15 percent of students in Catholic schools are not Catholic, and over the past 30 years, the percentage of minority students enrolled in Catholic schools has more than doubled. In northeastern Illinois, it is estimated that Catholic schools save taxpayers over $1 billion annually by lowering the number of students in overburdened public schools. “In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we pay a special tribute to countless dedicated teachers and administrators. Many of my favorite memories are of teachers, including many nuns, who taught me the values of faith and service. Throughout the United States, millions of others have similar memories." Catholic Schools Week, which begins on the last Sunday in January, has been an annual event since 1974.
01.23.2013	"Today I voted in support of HR 325, No Budget, No Pay Act. I am one of the representatives who has been a co-sponsor of Rep. Jim Cooper's similar legislation (HR 310) because I believe that if you don't do your job, you should not get paid. "Today's bill also would extend the debt ceiling to May 19, so we can continue to meet the obligations of the federal government. While this applies another Band-Aid to our larger budget and debt problems, we still face a March 1 deadline regarding the sequestration budget cuts and an April 1 deadline when the current funding bill for the federal government runs out. I am hopeful that these deadlines will finally force Congress and the President to tackle our debt problem. No more excuses. We have ample opportunity to engage in a serious discussion that brings about meaningful tax reform and strengthens entitlements while finally arriving at a long-term solution to the country's skyrocketing debt. I have been a leading proponent of reaching a bipartisan agreement along the lines of the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction commission recommendations. Continuing to put this off creates a serious threat to our economy and American jobs."
01.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he will be holding a grand opening on Friday, January 25 for a new 3rd Congressional District office at Central Square in Lockport. The congressman will be joined by other local officials for a ceremonial ribbon cutting at 11 a.m. In keeping with the congressman’s goal of locating his district offices in close proximity to local government offices, the Lockport office will be in the same building as the City of Lockport, Lockport Township, and the Lockport Township Park District, providing area residents with convenient access to all their elected officials and the services they provide. “As an elected official who strives to be involved in the communities I represent, I am excited to open a new office in Lockport’s historic downtown area,” Lipinski said. “I am committed to being accessible to all my constituents and providing top-notch constituent services. My staff is ready to assist with various federal concerns, including issues with Social Security and Medicare, veterans’ benefits, and helping arrange visits to Washington, D.C. I look forward to hearing about your challenges and ideas to improve the 3rd Congressional District. My door is always open.” The new office will be located on Central Square’s first floor, 222 East 9th St., in Lockport. The hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. No appointments are necessary. “I wish to extend a very warm welcome to Rep. Lipinski and his staff,” said Lockport Mayor Dev Trivedi. “The congressman is an active member of our community and we are elated to have him as a neighbor in Central Square. I know our residents will be well served by his office. Welcome aboard, congressman.” The 3rd Congressional District includes parts of Chicago, southwest Cook County and northeastern Will County. Announcements of new district office locations, including mobile offices as an added convenience for constituents, will be made in the coming weeks. For more information on Rep. Lipinski and the services his offices provide, visit www.lipinski.house.gov.
01.14.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) was one of 24 bipartisan congressional “Problem Solvers” unveiled by No Labels, a grassroots national movement of hundreds of thousands of Americans from across parties and ideologies who want to see Washington focus on solving problems. The event took place in New York City as part of the “Meeting to Make America Work,” which brought together over 1,300 citizens, thought leaders and elected officials from across the country to have a meaningful dialogue about solutions to our nation’s most pressing problems. “My background is in engineering, and engineers are problem solvers. So I came to Congress eight years ago determined to solve problems,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But as our nation’s problems have gotten bigger, Congress has gotten smaller. Not smaller in size or smaller in ego, but smaller in the capacity to get things done. The American people see this. In fact, one recent poll suggests Americans have a higher opinion of cockroaches and traffic jams than of Congress. “The public wants members of Congress to come together and solve problems for the good of the American people. But one of the biggest impediments is that Washington has many get-togethers limited to Democrats and Republicans, conservatives and progressives, this interest group or that interest group. There had been almost nowhere to gather for members of Congress who want to come together out of these cocoons to solve problems for the nation as a whole. To survive, businesses, families, other organizations know they must solve problems. That is why I am thankful for No Labels. I look forward to working together with my fellow Problem Solvers to make Washington work for the American people.” Rep. Lipinski has a long record of working across the aisle to solve problems and get things done. Last March, Lipinski helped introduce a budget modeled after the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction commission recommendations that included a mix of spending cuts and new revenue to reduce the federal deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years. For his stance, Lipinski was given the Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award this fall by the Concord Coalition, honoring those who have demonstrated a commitment to fiscal responsibility. Also named as a Problem Solver today is Rep. Adam Kinzinger (IL-16). In this last Congress, Rep. Lipinski was joined by Rep. Kinzinger in authoring the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act to boost this vital sector of our economy. The bill overwhelming passed the House last fall. Working together, Reps. Lipinski and Kinzinger are committed to getting the bill signed into law this year to revitalize manufacturing in America and help create good-paying, stable jobs for the middle class. “I look forward to working with my Illinois colleague, Congressman Lipinski, and the other members of No Labels to lead the way to have the bipartisan discussions that are desperately needed in Washington to cut through the gridlock and find common-sense solutions that will get our nation back on track,” Rep. Kinzinger said. “In the coming months, Republicans, Democrats and Independents alike must work together to tackle serious fiscal reforms, including the sequester and the debt ceiling. The American people chose a divided government in Washington and they’re counting on us to work together.” “By joining the Problem Solvers, Rep. Lipinski is proving his commitment to working across the aisle to do what’s best for the country,” No Labels Honorary Co-Chair, former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman said. “This group is truly patriotic -- its members are putting the country first to solve problems.” “The Problem Solvers group is a big deal,” No Labels Honorary Co-Chair, Sen. Joe Manchin, of West Virginia, said. “They can help break the gridlock and blame game that have become so pervasive in Washington, where people have developed an attitude that you’re only worth talking to if you’re on my team – the Ds or the Rs. We’ll prove that ultimately, we’re all on the same team – America.”
01.02.2013	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski released the following statement tonight on the passage of the fiscal cliff legislation in the House: “I am greatly disappointed, that after months of talk, House and Senate leaders and the President were not able to reach agreement on a sizable deficit reduction compromise. While it is good that we’re addressing the need to extend tax relief for millions of Americans, omitted from this package is a serious effort to address spending, implement tax reform, shore up the long-term viability of entitlements, or responsibly deal with replacing the sequester. With our debt limit reaching its maximum soon, we have missed a true opportunity to get our growing debt under control. “While H.R. 8 does not do what we need to tackle our debt, it protects middle-class Americans from an income tax increase that economists tell us would send our economy back into a recession. Hard-working Americans cannot afford more job losses and cuts in pay, and a recession would also add more to our debt. In spite of the deeply flawed bill and process, it was better to vote for H.R. 8 than to vote against it and push our economy and the middle class over the cliff. “There are some good provisions included in this legislation. Medicare enrollees won’t have access to their doctors put at risk by a 26.5 percent reduction in doctor reimbursement rates, which was scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1. Extended unemployment benefits will support millions of Americans who continue to struggle to find work. The Alternative Minimum Tax will now be permanently indexed to inflation so it will not threaten millions of middle class Americans with higher taxes. Important tax breaks that will promote economic growth, including the research and development tax credit and accelerated business depreciation are extended for a year. And the CLASS Act, a fiscally unsustainable long-term care program created in the health care law, is repealed; I have fought hard to repeal this before it could be implemented and add more to our debt. “As our debt continues to skyrocket, Washington cannot afford to continue to fail to get our fiscal house in order. Leadership has been sorely missing on debt reduction and it showed again in this effort to address the fiscal cliff. I have supported previous deficit reductions deals, and in March I helped bring to the House floor a bipartisan budget based on the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles Deficit Reduction Commission. As we approached the fiscal cliff, I joined with a bipartisan group of colleagues to push for a compromise based on these recommendations so that we could cut at least $3-$4 trillion from our debt over the next ten years. But Washington failed miserably. We missed the chance at a ‘grand bargain’ deficit reduction package by moving solely on taxes, and setting up another fight on the debt limit and spending cuts in February. “Thankfully we avoided this cliff, but Americans deserve better than this irresponsible, embarrassing behavior in Washington. We cannot afford to continue it.”
12.20.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) recently presented Oak Lawn veteran Army Cpl. Gust Peterson with three medals he earned for his service in the Korean War six decades ago. Lipinski personally pinned the Army Good Conduct Medal on Peterson during a ceremony attended by Peterson's family and U.S. Army personnel at the congressman's Chicago district office. "I'm honored to participate in this important day for Cpl. Peterson and his family, and proud that my office was able to get him the medals he earned but never received," Lipinski said. "Our veterans have fought valiantly for our nation. It is a top priority of mine that they receive the proper recognition for the sacrifices they have made on our behalf." Peterson served in the U.S. Army in 1953 and 1954. He had contacted Lipinski's office for help obtaining the medals he had earned for his service in the Korean War. In addition to the Army Good Conduct Medal recognizing exemplary conduct, efficiency, and fidelity during his period of service, Peterson received the Korean Defense Service Medal from the U.S. Army and the Korean War Service Medal from the Republic of Korea. Peterson also was given a letter of appreciation from the President of the Republic of Korea. Peterson lives in Oak Lawn with his wife of 60 years, Norma. Together, they have four children and three grandchildren.
12.20.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) recently took part in a welcome home celebration for two soldiers and one Marine at Oak Lawn's St. Linus Catholic Church. At the event in the church gym organized by the St. Linus Men's Club, Lipinski presented Army Capt. Dan Griffin, Army Lt. Col. Jim Kokaska and Marine Lance Cpl. Scott Smolik with a copy of the statement he made in the U.S. House of Representatives honoring each of them for their service to our nation. "For the families of Capt. Griffin, Lt. Col. Kokaska, and Lance Cpl. Smolik, there is no better Christmas present than to have them home safe and sound for the holidays," Lipinski said. "They have served their country admirably and are well deserving of our respect and recognition. I was honored to join St. Linus and the entire Oak Lawn community in welcoming them home." Capt. Griffin is an attorney who spent one tour in Afghanistan with the 82nd Airborne Division. Lt. Kokaska, an Army veteran of 20 years, served one tour in Iraq and two in Afghanistan with the 416th Engineer Command. Lance Cpl. Smolik is a recent St. Rita High School graduate who served with the 1st Battalion, 7th Marines infantry battalion.
12.19.2012	In order of appearance in photo, top row, left to right: Raymond Antos, Daniel Drew, Jordan Daniel Douglas Carbol, Zachary Maderak, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Nicholas Scott Paneral, Mark Milavickas, Kevin Goosherst. Bottom row, left to right: David B. Jackson Jr., Daniel Joseph Hecker, Mark John Cavaleri, Ryan Speir, Brett Heimerdinger, True Merritt, Kevin Moss. U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that he is nominating 16 high school seniors from the 3rd Congressional District for admission to the U.S. Service Academies for the entering classes of 2013. The nominees were recognized by Lipinski for their achievement at a recent ceremony at the Chicago Public Library in the Garfield Ridge community. "I am extremely proud to nominate these young men and women for our country's prestigious service academies. Each year, my office receives hundreds of applications from students requesting to be nominated. These nominees were judged by the strictest criteria that took into consideration all of their high school activities and accomplishments," Lipinski said. "Just to be nominated to one of our nation’s service academies is an honor. I am confident that each of these nominees will make major contributions no matter what path they take in life. They have already demonstrated a commitment to their community and country, and have shown a desire to serve others." The nominees are: U.S. Air Force Academy: Aaron Brown, of LaGrange Park, Lyons Township High School; Mark John Cavaleri Jr., of Hickory Hills, Amos Alonzo Stagg High School; James Chamberlin, Ellsworth Air Force Base, Ellsworth, S.D.; Kevin Goosherst, of Chicago, St. Rita High School; Brett Heimerdinger, of LaGrange, Lyons Township High School. U.S. Military Academy: Jordan Daniel Douglas Carbol, of Chicago, Brother Rice High School; David B. Jackson Jr., of Chicago, Brother Rice High School; Nicholas Scott Paneral, of Berwyn, St. Laurence High School. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy: Zachary Maderak, of Chicago, St. Rita High School. U.S. Naval Academy: Raymond Antos, of Riverside, Riverside Brookfield High School; Daniel Drew, of Chicago, Marist High School; Daniel Joseph Hecker, of Burbank, St. Laurence High School; True Merrit, of LaGrange Park, Lyons Township High School; Mark Milavickas, of Hickory Hills, St. Laurence High School; Kevin Moss, of Tinley Park, Marist High School; Ryan Speir, of Burr Ridge, Lyons Township High School. The admissions departments of the service academies make the final decision on acceptance. Each of the nominees will be notified by the service academies in January if they have been accepted.
12.17.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski was joined by more than 20 local officials today in urging CN to allow Metra to expand service on the Heritage Corridor Line and accommodate at least two additional trains a day. Adding two trains would boost commuter rail service to four round-trips a day in a growing area underserved by public transportation. In a letter led by Lipinski, regional leaders asked the Canadian railroad company to work with Metra to accommodate the added service in order to improve employment opportunities for the region's residents and promote long-term economic development and job growth. The request follows on the heels of a letter to CN by newly appointed Metra Board Chairman Brad O'Halloran asking for more service on the line. “The level of service on the Heritage Corridor Line lags far behind what is offered on other commuter routes on the Metra system. We understand that service is constrained by CN freight traffic and infrastructure limitations, but we believe that modest adjustments in freight schedules would make it is possible to add at least one additional train in the morning and one in the evening,” Lipinski said. “We urge CN to act in the public interest and work with Metra to accommodate this improvement as soon as possible so people living in communities served by the Heritage Corridor Line can begin to have commuting options already afforded to others in northeastern Illinois. “The population in Will County and southwest Cook County has grown substantially the last decade. The Heritage Corridor Line is not keeping pace,” Lipinski added. “This needs to end.” Operated by Metra on tracks owned and managed by CN, the Heritage Corridor Line runs between Joliet and Chicago's Union Station, stopping in Lockport, Lemont, Willow Springs, and Summit. A new station in Romeoville is also in the works. Since 1999, the line has run only six trains a day -- three trains in the morning rush hour and three trains in the evening rush hour. Metra's other 10 commuter routes offer between 22 and 170 trains a day, leaving a major mass transit gap in the southwest suburbs. “As Metra's new chairman, my first responsibility is to ensure quality service for all of our customers, including those along the Heritage Corridor Line,” O'Halloran said. “I appreciate Congressman Lipinski's leadership on this important issue and look forward to working with him and our partners at CN to see that Heritage Corridor Line customers experience a frequency of service that approaches what riders on Metra's other commuter lines have come to expect.” In the letter to CN, Lipinski and local officials note that between 2000 and 2010, the populations of Romeoville, Joliet, and Lockport grew by 88 percent, 39 percent, and 12 percent, respectively. Southwest Cook County has also grown over the past 10 years, with the populations of Lemont, Willow Springs, and Summit increasing by 22 percent, 10 percent, and 4 percent, respectively. At the same time, ridership on the Heritage Corridor Line also expanded. In 2002, 572,488 rides were taken on the line. In 2011, that number was 711,632, a 24 percent increase. Clearly, three round-trips a day no longer satisfy the demand for service. “With construction of a new Romeoville station starting soon, increasing the level of service on the Heritage Corridor Line needs to be a priority to make the stop even more of a success,” Romeoville Mayor John Noak said. “We are in the fastest-growing county in the state. As the population continues to grow, we need CN's partnership to help us provide our residents better transit options and access to jobs.” “Increasing Metra service has been a desire of Lemont residents and commuters for many, many years,” Lemont Mayor Brian Reaves said. “We are optimistic that CN, as a longtime member of the Lemont business community, will give this request the consideration and the attention our residents deserve.” Lipinski has led the push to improve the reliability of the Heritage Corridor Line. Earlier this year, Lipinski successfully worked with Metra and CN to dramatically improve the line's on-time performance. Historically one of Metra's worst performing lines, the Heritage Corridor Line ended 2011 with an on-time performance of 86.2 percent. For the first eight months of this year, on-time performance had improved to 95.7 percent. “We are asking CN to make accommodations as soon as possible to allow for these two additional daily trains,” Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno (R-Lemont) said. “For too long, Heritage Corridor Line commuters have been forced to juggle their home and family responsibilities based on just six trains a day, far below the number of trains on the rest of the Metra system. We are hopeful that CN and Metra will take the steps to ensure that residents of our region get the level of service they deserve.” The letter sent to CN today was signed by Illinois Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno; State Sen. Steven Landek; State Sen. Pat McGuire; Cook County Commissioner Jeffery R. Tobolski; Bedford Park Village President David R. Brady; Assistant House Minority Leader Jim Durkin; Will County Executive Lawrence M. Walsh; 23rd Ward Ald. Michael Zalewski; Crest Hill Mayor Raymond R. Soliman; Homer Glen Mayor James P. Daley; Justice Village President Krzysztof Wasowicz; Lemont Mayor Brian K. Reaves; Lockport Mayor Dev Trivedi; Romeoville Mayor John D. Noak; Summit Mayor Joseph W. Strzelczyk; Joliet Mayor Tom Giarrante; State Rep. Michael Zalewski; Cook County Commissioner Joan Patricia Murphy; State Rep. Emily McAsey; State Rep. Lawrence Walsh Jr; and Willow Springs Mayor Alan Nowaczyk.
12.14.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski announced that Argonne National Laboratory, in partnership with the University of Chicago, has received a $600,000 federal grant for a new research effort that will help decision-makers in urban areas better understand the impact of different policies on their communities. The National Science Foundation grant will fund the new Urban Center for Computation and Data, an interdisciplinary program that will compile and analyze information collected by cities to help them make more informed policy and planning decisions. "This grant will bring together researchers from several fields to help decision-makers in urban areas make better policy choices that should improve the quality of life for residents," Lipinski said. "With unprecedented volumes of data and statistics being collected in metropolitan areas, grants like these will help put that information to good, practical use, and could reduce the burden on taxpayers in metropolitan areas such as Chicago as resources are used more efficiently." Lipinski is the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. Three years ago, when he served as chairman of the subcommittee, Lipinski wrote the bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation. The Urban Center for Computation and Data, under the leadership of Argonne National Laboratory and the University of Chicago, aims to produce computer models to simulate the impacts of potential development and policy decisions on areas such as transportation, employment, crime, and health. The center includes several outside collaborators, including the City of Chicago, the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, University of Chicago Medical Center, and the architecture firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. For more information, visit www.anl.gov.
12.04.2012	As Washington continues to struggle to avoid the fiscal cliff, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is working this week with a bipartisan group of legislators to develop a plan to not only avoid the “cliff,” but to put the nation on a fiscally sustainable path. The plan would likely involve a two-step approach that avoids the Jan. 1 cliff with a down payment on deficit reduction, while setting up a detailed legislative process for early 2013 that would result in at least a $4 trillion cut in the projected debt over 10 years. This bipartisan agreement would include a balanced “spending reduction-new revenue” approach modeled after the Simpson-Bowles Deficit Reduction Commission recommendations. "Americans are rightfully scared by the specter of large tax increases and slashes to spending. No matter where I went around the district this past weekend, people were telling me that Washington needs to stop bickering and get to work avoiding the fiscal cliff. As I was walking in a Christmas parade, someone yelled out about solving the fiscal cliff, concluding with one word, ‘compromise.’ That is what we need to do,” Lipinski said. “As someone who is committed to finding solutions, I have been working on this issue with a bipartisan group of Representatives along with organizations such as Fix the Debt, The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, and the Concord Coalition. "A short-term fix that simply contributes to more debt is not enough. Without meaningful long-term deficit reduction, the potential for increases in unemployment, inflation, and interest rates is too great. This would be a disaster for the middle class," Lipinski continued. “That is why we cannot do what Washington usually does, wait until the last minute and then pass a bad plan that kicks the can down the road. The time to act is now. "Fortunately, there is a blueprint available to avoid this and allow all sides to compromise on a grand bargain that cuts out debt through decreased spending, increased revenue, and economic growth. Some ways to do this are already on the table and can be included in legislation as down payment on deficit reduction. Other more complicated items such as tax reform and further curbs to spending growth can be left to Congress to work out early next year in a process that is required in this legislation.” In March, Lipinski helped introduce a budget modeled after the Simpson-Bowles Deficit Reduction Commission recommendations. Only a "Brave 38” supported the budget that included a mix of spending cuts and new revenue to reduce the federal deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years. For his stance, Lipinski was given the Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award this fall by the Concord Coalition, honoring those who have demonstrated a commitment to fiscal responsibility. "We need to think big in order for the country to start moving in the right direction," Lipinski said. "I believe all the pieces are in place for an agreement that not only avoids the fiscal cliff, but also fixes our budget and protects taxpayers from even more economic harm. All that's missing is the resolve to work together."
11.29.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced today that Argonne National Laboratory has been chosen by the U.S. Department of Energy as an Energy Innovation Hub devoted to developing new battery technology for transportation and the electric grid. This innovative research hub, supported by $120 million in federal funding over five years, has the potential of creating a revolution in battery technology that slashes dependence on foreign oil and makes our region the worldwide leader in battery manufacturing. "This award sets up Argonne National Laboratory to be the world leader in an emerging field that will promote American energy independence, make green energy more available and affordable, and grow manufacturing in the region." Lipinski said. "As a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee I have been a champion of expanding cutting-edge science research and a leader in the fight to bring this Energy Innovation Hub to Argonne, which has already been recognized for its excellence in this area. I believe this new facility will bring a significant return on the investment for our nation and especially for the communities around Argonne.” Argonne’s new Joint Center of Energy Storage Research is a remarkable collaboration of research and private sector partners, including Northwestern University, University of Chicago, University of Illinois, Lawrence Berkeley, Pacific Northwest, Sandia and SLAC National Accelerator laboratories and University of Michigan. The addition of private sector partners in Applied Materials, Dow Chemical and Johnson Controls completes an innovation team with unparalleled depth, breadth and experience. The center’s primary objective is to develop more effective and cheaper energy storage solutions and batteries. The research is anticipated to reduce the cost of electric vehicles, making them more competitive with cars that run on gasoline, while also opening up new possibilities for wind and solar power storage. “The worldwide battery market is roughly $95 billion and has the potential for exponential growth. The communities around Argonne National Laboratory are now poised to be central to this huge market,” Lipinski said. “America, and our region, have many of the world’s top national laboratories and universities. During my time on the Science Committee, I have been a leading proponent of getting research out of these labs and into new products, new companies, and new jobs. This Energy Innovation Hub is a great way to make sure that taxpayers are getting the best possible return for their investment in science.”
11.26.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today joined Tinley Park Mayor Ed Zabrocki, Metra Chairman Brad O'Halloran and other state and local leaders at a dedication ceremony for the village's new 80th Avenue Station on Metra's Rock Island District Line. The $11.5 million project included $6.9 million in federal funds to rebuild a stop that accommodates more than 2,500 passengers each day, the most on the Rock Island District Line and the fourth-highest total on the entire Metra system. With the addition of a pedestrian underpass and other safety improvements, the Federal Railroad Administration recently approved quiet zones at six Rock Island District Line grade crossings through Tinley Park. "The new 80th Avenue Station is a wonderful addition to the community. I'm sure riders appreciate the modern amenities that will make public transportation a more attractive option for their daily commutes," Lipinski said. "I want to congratulate Mayor Zabrocki and Chairman O'Halloran for building a station that everyone in Tinley Park and the entire Metra organization can be proud of."
11.20.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) spoke at a St. John of the Cross Parish School assembly on Monday, Nov. 19, celebrating the school receiving the National Blue Ribbon Award. The Rev. David Dowdle, Principal Kathleen Gorman and first grade teacher Jackie Wehner were guests of the congressman and were presented the award the week of Nov. 12 in Washington, D.C. Lipinski is a Western Springs resident and St. John of the Cross parishioner. Only 50 private schools nationwide in 2012 were selected by the U.S. Department of Education for the prestigious award, which recognizes academic excellence and student achievement levels.
11.15.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) is currently accepting nomination request letters from young persons in the Third Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies for the classes entering in the summer of 2013. The service academies include: • Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. • Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. • West Point Military Academy, West Point, N.Y. • Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, N.Y. Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year they would enter the academy; be a United States citizen; have graduated from high school; be unmarried; have taken the ACT and/or SAT; and meet the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred Academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January 2013, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is Dec. 3, 2012. For more information, contact Tom Conners in Congressman Lipinski’s Oak Lawn office at (708) 424-0853.
11.15.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) visited St. Christina Catholic School in Chicago's Mount Greenwood community on Nov. 12 for the school's annual tribute to veterans. Led by music teacher Mary Jane Donegan, this year's program in the parish chapel was devoted to our national veterans memorials. Also attending as guests and participating in the event were local veterans invited by the students. "On this past Veterans Day, as we took part in these ceremonies in our communities, we were reminded once again of the sacrifices our veterans have made to preserve our freedom and protect our way of life to ensure that we remain the greatest country on Earth, The debt we owe them is immeasurable. We need to remember that not just on Veterans Day, but every day," Lipinski said. "But the sacrifices they have made do not end on the day they return home. Our returning veterans are confronted with unique challenges, with higher unemployment rates among veterans often making the transition to civilian life a difficult one. I am committed to being an advocate for our 22 million veterans, including the 33,000 in the 3rd Congressional District, by working to create jobs and finding them the help they need to succeed. Please say a pray for our veterans and their families and commit to keeping them in your thoughts throughout the year."
11.15.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) on November 16th issued the following statement on the situation in Israel: "Over the past few days, the citizens of Israel have been barraged by a torrent of rockets shot from Gaza, leading to the deaths of citizens and a growing terror in the society of our strong ally. I condemn these terrorist actions and call on Hamas to cease its senseless aggression on the Israeli people. I support Israel’s need to defend herself from these attacks and to pursue the militant elements that lead and organize these threats. Every nation has the right to defend itself and its citizens from acts of terror. I urge the United States to provide all necessary support to Israel in this troubling time. I regret the loss of innocent life, and pray for a return to stability and peace."
10.30.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) met last weekend with Lech Walesa, who led the Polish Solidarity union that defeated communism and became the first democratically elected president of Poland. "It was a great honor to meet Lech Walesa, whose fearless tenacity propelled him from an electrician in the Gdansk shipyards to a driving force in toppling the Iron Curtain and becoming the first democratically elected president of Poland," Lipinski said. "He is one of the greatest freedom fighters of our time. His leadership of the Solidarity union led to the liberation of 39 million Poles and tens of millions of others from the oppressive yoke of Soviet communism, along with helping to end the Cold War. "Lech Walesa’s Polish heritage, strong Catholic faith, and tireless dedication to freedom make him one of my greatest heroes. He showed what one person can do with faith, courage, and determination." Walesa helped form and led Solidarity, communist Poland's first independent trade union. Under his leadership, Solidarity demanded free elections and openly called for the ouster of the Soviet-backed communist government. Walesa, who regarded his Catholicism as a source of strength and inspiration, was incarcerated by the government for almost one year for his activities. In 1983, Walesa was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace. In 1990, following the collapse of communism, he was elected president of the Republic of Poland, serving until 1995. Since 2005, Lipinski has represented the 3rd Congressional District, home to more than 100,000 Polish Americans, one of the highest numbers for any congressional district in the United States. A monument to Walesa and the Solidarity movement stands at Archer Avenue and Narragansett Avenue in Chicago's Garfield Ridge community. The Polish Highlanders Alliance of America in headquartered in the district. Lipinski is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland. He has been a strong proponent of admitting Poland to the Visa Waiver Program so that Polish citizens would no longer have to go through a very difficult process to visit the United States. Lipinski’s office has helped hundreds of Polish-American constituents gain visas for their relatives in order to attend weddings, baptisms, and other family events. Walesa, 69, spoke at a political event in Schaumburg prior to meeting the congressman.
10.17.2012	Rep. Lipinski, the Chicago area's senior member on the the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, toured the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal this week as a guest of Lemont village officials and Illinois Marine Towing, Inc. The congressman visited the crew of The Lemont Trader and learned about the importance of canal traffic to the regional economy and industry along the corridor. Also discussed was the potential for economic development by improving the shipment of freight through the area and creating more intermodal connections between barges, rail and trucks. "For well over a century, the Chicago Sanitary & Ship Canal has played a vital role in creating jobs locally and connecting northeastern Illinois to the rest of the world," Rep. Lipinski said. "The shipment of materials that pass through the canal communities are an important piece of the local and global economies. As congressman for the Third Congressional District, I will continue to see that this resource remains vital and utilized to its full potential."
10.12.2012	Rep. Lipinski participated in the annual St. Michael blessing of police officers, fire fighters, paramedics, and EMTs at St. Symphorosa Parish in Chicago's Clearing community, the parish where the congressman attended grammar school. Following a prayer service led by the Rev. Norm Trela and attended by the parish schoolchildren, he took part in the dedication in the Msgr. Maniola prayer garden of a new granite memorial and walkway honoring all first responders who have given their lives keeping the community safe. The memorial is an Eagle Scout project by Liam Burke, with help from his family, donators, and the Rev. Trela.
10.11.2012	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today announced the winners of the 2012 Senior Citizen of the Year Award, honoring their dedication to volunteerism and civic involvement in the local communities that make up the Third Congressional District. "These winners on a daily basis demonstrate the outstanding community spirit and commitment that exists in all or our communities," Rep. Lipinski said. "As congressman for the Third Congressional District, I have been privileged to meet many people who actively seek to make their communities better places to live and work. I am honored to recognize these senior citizens who have selflessly donated their time and energy to causes and pursuits that benefit so many other people." The 2012 Senior Citizen of the Year Award winners are: Carol A. Coleman, Indian Head Park; Lawrence Wyllie, New Lenox; Paul O. Weber, Chicago; Marge Weiner, Tinley Park; Gary Niehaus, Lockport; Janet Paulin, Forest Park; Harron Beene, Summit; Donald E. Cramer, Burbank; Carol Stefan, Palos Heights; Ruth Rodriguez, Berwyn; Dr. Robert J. Novak, Riverside; Delores Dupree, Chicago; Alma Marble, Cicero; Denny Conway, Chicago; Bob Orlow, Chicago; Roy A. Overholt, Brookfield; Patricia Cossin, Bridgeview; Lorraine A. Kawalek, LaGrange Park; and the Rev. Glenn Bergmark of Lemont. (winners pictured above with Rep. Lipinski, except for Lawrence Wyllie who accepted his award earlier in the event.) The winners were nominated by their fellow constituents for their special involvement in the Third Congressional District. All of the winners and their guests were recognized at an award ceremony Oct. 18 at 11 a.m. at the Park Place of Countryside banquet hall, 6240 Joliet Road, Countryside.
10.05.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has been awarded the Paul E. Tsongas Economic Patriot Award by the Concord Coalition for his leadership on the fiscally responsible Cooper-LaTourette nonpartisan deficit reduction plan earlier this year. “The only way we can provide the serious deficit reduction that everyone agrees we need is if both parties stop playing political games and work together as Americans for the good of our country’s future,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This bipartisan plan that I helped bring to the House floor is a common-sense approach for putting our fiscal house in order while strengthening the long-term sustainability of programs critical for the middle class.” The budget was modeled on the plan put forward in 2010 by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, co-chaired by former Republican Sen. Alan Simpson and Democrat Erskine Bowles, and was introduced by four Republicans and five Democrats, including Rep. Lipinski. It would have trimmed the deficit by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years, simplified the tax code, eliminated tax loopholes, and lowered tax rates for individuals and small businesses. The budget also included a plan to preserve and strengthen critical programs such as Medicare and Social Security for future generations. “We are honoring Republican and Democratic House members who this year put the national interest above political partisanship,” said Robert Bixby, Executive Director of the Concord Coalition. “Their plan could rein in projected deficits and put the United States on a more responsible and sustainable course – one that would protect our nation’s strength and shield future generations of Americans from crippling national debt.” “Continued partisan posturing means more gridlock and more deficits that our nation cannot afford,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Washington has to wake up and recognize that reducing the national debt requires the courage and the vision to compromise. Otherwise, the American people will suffer as deficits continue to grow and drag down our economy.”
10.05.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), today, on the official launch of the country's first "Manufacturing Day," commended the nation's manufacturers and all of their hard-working employees for the vital role they play in our local communities and our national economy. Bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Lipinski to develop a national strategy for revitalizing American manufacturing – the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act – overwhelmingly passed the House last month, setting up the opportunity for Senate consideration by year's end. "I have long said that manufacturing is the linchpin for our nation's economy and for many of our local communities," Rep. Lipinski said. "Setting aside a day to recognize the importance of manufacturing and all those Americans involved in the industry is a welcome development. But our nation must do more to create an environment in which manufacturing flourishes. My bill would create a temporary, bipartisan, public/private board that would recommend policies to boost American manufacturing and allow us to compete successfully in the global marketplace for years to come." Sponsored by Rep. Lipinski and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), the American Manufacturing and Competitiveness Act, H.R. 5865, would bring the public and private sectors together, along with members of both parties, to forge an actionable plan to promote the success of American manufacturing. The bill creates a bipartisan Manufacturing Competitiveness Board consisting of 15 members, five appointed by the president – including two governors from different parties – and 10 from the private sector appointed by the House and Senate, with the majority appointing three and the minority two in each chamber. The Board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the U.S. and global manufacturing sectors, covering everything from trade issues to taxation, regulation, research, education, and new technologies. Based on this analysis, it will develop a strategy that includes goals and specific recommendations for achieving these goals. Earlier this week, Congressman Lipinski visited Atlas Tool & Die Works, Inc., in Lyons, Ill., which is manufacturing components for private sector companies as well as the Department of Defense. Atlas is a local family-owned business that has been in operation since 1918. Zach Mottl, Director of Development for Atlas, testified earlier this year before the House Energy and Commerce Committee in support of the American Manufacturing and Competitiveness Act. Manufacturing Day, with more than 150 events planned throughout the country, is co-produced by the Fabricators & Manufacturers Association, the U.S. Commerce Department’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership and its branches in many states, the National Association of Manufacturers, and the Manufacturing Institute. It is supported by dozens of regional and national manufacturing associations and related businesses. Participating companies and partnering organizations are hosting open houses, public tours, career workshops and other events, with the goal of demonstrating to as many people as possible the important role manufacturing plays in local communities and at the national level. "Manufacturing Day is an opportunity to salute a sector of our economy that over the years has provided so many good-paying, quality jobs in my district and across the United States," Rep. Lipinski said. "I promise to continue working to see that manufacturing in this country is strengthened and provided with the tools necessary for long-term survival."
10.04.2012	Rep. Lipinski took part in a school assembly Friday, Oct. 4, recognizing St. John of the Cross Parish School in Western Springs as one of 50 private schools nationwide selected for a prestigious 2012 National Blue Ribbon Award from the U.S. Department of Education. The award is based on overall academic excellence and student achievement levels. Congressman Lipinski, a Western Springs resident and St. John of the Cross parishioner, presented Principal Kathleen Gorman and the Rev. David Dowdle with a copy of his statement in the Congressional Record congratulating the students, teachers, administrators and parents for winning the award. Lipinski will join Gorman and Dowdle in Washington, D.C., when they receive the award in November. Joining the congressman at the event were Gov. Pat Quinn and state Rep. Jim Durkin.
09.13.2012	Legislation introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) to require the development of a national strategy to revitalize American manufacturing and create good-paying middle class jobs was approved today by the U.S. House of Representatives with the strong support and help of Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.). The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 5865, passed with an overwhelming vote, 339-77. The House’s approval sets up the opportunity for Senate consideration prior to the year’s end. “At a time when the political environment is highly polarized and Congress is not doing much besides bickering, I am especially proud to have moved this bipartisan bill forward in order to commit our nation to boosting manufacturing and growing jobs for the middle class,” Rep. Lipinski stated. “Manufacturing is a linchpin of our nation’s economy. It has provided the American middle class with a source of quality jobs, making everything from the goods we rely on for our everyday needs, to the equipment our national security depends upon. But in the first decade of this century, American manufacturing took a hard hit. Almost one-third of American manufacturing jobs disappeared. After 110 years as the world’s top manufacturing nation, America got knocked off its perch by China. I have seen the devastation in my district and across northeastern Illinois. And I get frustrated, just like countless other Americans, when I cannot find the words “Made in U.S.A.” on any products when I go shopping. Some say this is inevitable, but it does not have to be. I am very pleased that the House has passed this bill with a very large, bipartisan majority. I thank Rep. Kinzinger for working across the aisle and helping move this bill forward as a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee.” H.R. 5865 will bring the public and private sectors together, along with members of both parties, to forge an actionable plan to promote the success of American manufacturing. The bill creates a bipartisan Manufacturing Competitiveness Board consisting of 15 members, five appointed by the president – including two governors from different parties – and 10 from the private sector appointed by the House and Senate, with the majority appointing three and the minority two in each chamber. The Board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the U.S. and global manufacturing sectors, covering everything from trade issues to taxation, regulation, research, education, and new technologies. Based on this analysis, it will develop a strategy that includes goals and specific recommendations for achieving these goals. The first strategy is due in 2014 and the second in 2018. This quadrennial strategic approach is modeled on the Defense Department’s policy planning effort, the Quadrennial Defense Review. Despite job losses and outsourcing, American manufacturers remain the world’s most productive, employing 11 million people and producing $1.7 trillion annually. With labor costs rising in China and cheap natural gas available here at home, many companies are considering locating factories in the United States. A coordinated manufacturing policy will help create the best possible environment for the private sector to take advantage of these opportunities and grow domestic manufacturing. "According to the World Economic Forum, the United States has fallen from 1st to 7th in global competitiveness, reflecting an inability to do the things we need to do to support our manufacturing sector. Today's passage of the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Acts changes that. We sit on the brink of a manufacturing renaissance,” said Rep. Adam Kinzinger, lead Republican cosponsor of H.R. 5865. “We have the most productive workers in the world, the highest quality of products, and, now, an opportunity to support our manufacturing base for years to come by developing a long-term strategy. I am proud to have worked with Congressman Lipinski on this bipartisan legislation to increase our competitiveness and create high paying jobs that will rebuild the middle class,” Kinzinger stated. “As a business owner, I know planning is critical,” said Zach Mottl, Director of Development for Atlas Tool & Die Works of Lyons, which has been owned by his family since 1918. “Plan, execute, review: that is the core of any good business model. Unfortunately, when an organization doesn’t operate with a plan, what occurs is a plan to fail. Right now the United States is operating without a manufacturing strategy in a world where other countries are intensely focused on helping their manufacturers to compete. The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act will bring all sides and stakeholders together to forge a strategy with broad support and the momentum needed to produce action. I applaud Rep. Lipinski for his leadership in introducing this bill and thank Rep. Kinzinger for his efforts as well.” “One of the best kept secrets in Washington is that the decline of manufacturing has been a major cause of America’s economic predicament,” said Robert Atkinson, President of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. “The countries poised to compete successfully in today’s global economy have strategies for sustaining vibrant, dynamic manufacturing sectors. The United States lacks such a strategy at great peril. With its broad, bipartisan support, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act should pass Congress easily. We can no longer delay taking an honest look at what we’ve lost already from our inattention to manufacturing. We must get moving on a plan to revitalize our industrial base, and the Act creates a vital framework for doing so.” “Having grown up in a neighborhood surrounded by manufacturing plants, I understand how important this industry is for middle class families and for communities,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Not only do manufacturing companies provide huge numbers of jobs – while Facebook employs about 3,000 people, Boeing employs 172,000 – manufacturing has greater spillover effects, with every job supporting numerous additional jobs. When we lose manufacturing due to outsourcing, we lose the ability to create the breakthrough technologies of tomorrow – as occurred when consumer electronics manufacturing migrated to Asia and became a source of revolutionary battery technologies. Naysayers should consider the case of Germany, where manufacturing labor costs are 25 percent higher than in the U.S., yet manufacturing employment basically held steady there at a time that we lost 6.2 million jobs here. After a decade that saw Washington turn its back on manufacturing even as other countries sought to give their manufacturers every advantage, we need a national strategy that unleashes this vital sector of the American economy.”
09.11.2012	Today, as we reflect on the horrific attacks on America eleven years ago on 9/11, we remember all those who were killed, and honor the bravery of our Armed Forces and our first responders who keep us free and safe. Let us pause in remembrance, say a prayer, and move forward united as Americans.
08.14.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski will hold a Town Hall Meeting on Tuesday, August 14, at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn to hear from his constituents and take their questions about federal issues. He will also hold a Job Fair on Friday, August 24, in Hickory Hills. TOWN HALL MEETING Tuesday, August 14, 7:00 p.m. Advocate Christ Medical Center, Auditorium 4440 W. 95th Street, Oak Lawn Entrance – East side of Kilbourn Avenue about a half block north of 95th Street. Free parking across the street on Kilbourn Ave. At 6:00 p.m., Congressional staff will assist with federal issues such as Social Security and Medicare. JOB FAIR Friday, August 24, 10:00 a.m. – Noon The Sabre Room 8900 W. 95th Street, Hickory Hills Job seekers can meet with four dozen area businesses that are currently hiring and that represent a broad array of industries. Attending employers include BNSF Railway, Advocate Christ Medical Center, Standard Bank & Trust, AT&T, Walgreens, Hoist Liftruck, Electro-Motive Diesel, the CTA, CITGO – Lemont Refining, Securitas, and many more. For more information call 312-886-0481.
08.09.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced the introduction of legislation that will help American manufacturers create jobs by making it harder for foreign companies to illegally avoid billions of dollars in customs duties. The Customs Training Enhancement Act, H.R. 6110, will improve information sharing between the private sector and U.S. Customs and Border Protection, enabling agents to identify schemes to import foreign goods without paying duties. “Rampant cheating by foreign firms is putting American companies out of business and costing American workers their jobs,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This bill will help us to fight back by ensuring that customs agents are equipped with the latest intelligence on the schemes foreign companies are using to gain an unfair advantage.” The Coalition to Enforce Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Orders estimates that duty evasion in just seven narrow industry categories costs taxpayers $400 million annually, and that the total cost of duty evasion across all industries is many times higher. An estimated $50 million in antidumping duties on a single product, mattress springs, is evaded annually, according to the coalition. Foreign companies avoid duties in a variety of ways, including by shipping goods from one country to another on their way to the United States in order to disguise their country of origin, misclassifying products, and undervaluing products to reduce the amount of duties owed. H.R. 6110 is modeled on a successful partnership between the steel industry and Customs and Border Protection, in which industry professionals teach customs agents how to spot particular products that have been deliberately mislabeled in order to avoid duties. Under Rep. Lipinski’s bill, CBP would be required to organize seminars on a regular basis at which company and industry representatives would be able to directly share critical intelligence with agents to better enable them to prevent customs fraud by foreign firms. As they are immediately and directly affected by duty evasion, American companies and their workers are often the first to discover that foreign competitors are cheating. In a recent report, the Government Accountability Office described various instances of duty evasion, including cases in which numerous importers failed to declare that wood flooring from China was subject to countervailing duties; an importer falsely claimed steel nails from China were exempt from duties; and Chinese honey was shipped through Thailand to disguise its origins. In July, the federal government charged eight individuals with avoiding customs duties on hundreds of millions of dollars of foreign-made cigarettes and apparel imported through the Port of Long Beach, California. Evasion of antidumping and countervailing duties is an especially grave problem, as such duties are put in place in order to protect American industries that have already been hurt by illegal trade practices such as selling goods below cost. There are 114 countervailing duty and anti-dumping orders in effect against goods made in China, the most of any nation. Such goods include solar-energy products, candles, steel cylinders, saccharin, shrimp, and clothes hangers. The St. Louis Dispatch reported last year that two Missouri hanger plants and one Illinois hanger plant shut down amid illegal dumping of Chinese-made hangers. Products from countries such as India, Taiwan, South Korea, and Japan that are subject to countervailing and anti-dumping duties include steel pipes, plastic bags, diamond sawblades, and cement. “Every time foreign manufacturers evade duties by lying and cheating, they’re hurting the American people in two ways,” Rep. Lipinski said. “First, they’re robbing taxpayers by failing to pay the federal government the money they owe. And second, they’re causing American businesses to lose money and costing more Americans their jobs. We cannot allow this to continue. H.R. 6110 will help stop this widespread cheating.” ####
08.02.2012	Today, U.S. Congressmen Daniel Lipinski (D-IL-3), Robert J. Dold (R-IL-10), Charles Bass (R-NH-2) and Steven LaTourette (R-OH-14) spoke at a bipartisan press conference to stress the importance of Congress coming together to address the looming fiscal cliff. “Time is running out for us to avoid going over the fiscal cliff,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Both parties are going to have to stop playing political games and start working together to reduce the deficit, before it’s too late. We showed the kind of leadership that will be necessary when we introduced and voted for legislation based on the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles plan. Now we need more of our colleagues to step up and join us in the search for common ground.” “We are facing the most predictable crisis facing our nation in decades,” said U.S. Rep. Dold. “We are here today not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans so that we can urge Congress to seek common ground and move our country forward. We need to put people before politics and progress before partisanship so that we can put a bipartisan plan in action and address the fiscal cliff facing our nation. I am proud to stand with my colleagues here today as we are committed to working together.” “All of the great decisions that have been made in American history have been made by people who have great principle but are willing to compromise,” said U.S. Rep. Bass. “Compromise is not a capitulation of principle - it’s getting the nation’s business done. Right now, America is calling out for us to get beyond the fights of our own parties and start talking about real solutions to avoid the fiscal cliff. That is how we can make our nation strong, vibrant, and prosperous for our children and grandchildren.” “People need to stop fighting over table scraps. Everyone’s most important issue has to be where we find ourselves on this fiscal cliff,” said U.S. Rep. LaTourette. “We can’t do it alone. It’s going to take the leadership of the two parties, Governor Romney, President Obama to link hands and jump together, and understand that we got into this mess together and will have to get out of it together.”
08.01.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted to extend tax cuts for the middle class that would save a typical family of four $2,200 next year. “With unemployment still at 8.2 percent, middle-class Americans cannot afford a tax hike,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Had the House voted with the Senate as I did today to extend tax cuts for households earning less than $250,000, we could have put those American families at ease by ensuring that their income taxes will not go up next year. But instead of settling this issue by passing legislation that can be immediately signed into law, Congress is once again playing political games and kicking the can down the road. “Had the House passed the Senate legislation, Congress could then have turned its attention to addressing the remaining tax cuts that are set to expire at the end of the year, with the goal of providing additional tax relief while simultaneously dealing with the automatic budget cuts that are scheduled to hit at the same time. Those two issues cannot be considered in isolation. There is bipartisan agreement that we must amend the automatic budget cuts, known as the sequester. These across-the-board spending reductions will cut programs without making any distinctions between those that are essential and those that are a waste of taxpayer dollars. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has also stated that in their current form these cuts raise the risk of an economic contraction the American people can ill-afford. As someone who has repeatedly voted for strong, bipartisan deficit reduction measures, I believe we should fulfill the promise to reduce the deficit we made with the Budget Control Act, without abdicating on our obligation to set priorities. “The bottom line is this: if we extend all the tax cuts and rescind the sequester cuts without concern for breaking the promise we made to reduce the debt in last year’s Budget Control Act, how much longer will investors trust Congress’s commitment to debt reduction and continue to lend the U.S. money at low interest rates? Is Congress serious about deficit reduction and America’s future, or are we going to continue to be irresponsible until it is too late? “All one has to do is look to Europe to witness the terrible consequences of failing to balance spending and revenues until it is too late. In order to prevent a similar catastrophe here that does grave damage to the middle class, I helped introduce and was among the 38 bipartisan House members who earlier this year voted for a balanced proposal for $4 trillion in deficit reduction based on the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles commission. As such, I was among those the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget thanked ‘for being open to compromise and putting the nation’s fiscal interest above their party’s interest.’ In addition, I voted for the bipartisan budget deal that prevented a government shutdown and cut spending in 2011 by $38 billion, opposed a bill that would have increased the debt limit without addressing future deficits, and supported the Budget Control Act to reduce the deficit by at least $2.1 trillion over 10 years. What we need is a targeted, long-term plan for restoring fiscal discipline that positions our economy for strong, stable growth. I look forward to continuing to lead the effort to develop and pass such a plan.”
07.17.2012	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced a bipartisan bill, H.R. 6132, to require the United States Olympic Committee to "Buy American" to ensure that the uniforms and equipment it supplies to American athletes are made by American workers whenever possible. As a federally chartered nonprofit corporation, the USOC must report every four years to Congress on its operations, receipts, and expenditures. The legislation will also require the Committee to include in its report data on where the goods it provides for athletes come from and a description of the steps it has taken to ensure they are made in the United States. "When I heard that our Olympic athletes would be wearing uniforms that were made in China for the Opening and Closing Ceremonies, I was outraged," Rep. Lipinski said. "The Olympics is a showcase for the best that a country has to offer to the world. But during the most watched events of the Games our athletes will be showcasing Chinese-made uniforms instead of uniforms made by American workers. What was the U.S. Olympic Committee thinking? They certainly didn’t have American workers in mind. As a federally chartered nonprofit corporation and the organization officially charged with promoting the success of America’s Olympians, the Committee should take special pride in buying American. While our athletes are striving to bring home the gold for their country, the last thing the USOC should be doing is contributing to the offshoring of American jobs." Rep. Lipinski and Rep. Jones also joined together to introduce a sense-of-the-House resolution, H. Res. 731, urging the USOC to "strive to ensure that all of the clothing and equipment purchased for United States Olympic athletes is made in America." Rep. Lipinski has repeatedly worked to bolster the U.S. manufacturing sector and strengthen existing Buy American laws so that taxpayer dollars help create and sustain American jobs. He is the author of the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 2722, which would eliminate loopholes that result in the federal government purchasing numerous products made in foreign countries even though they could be purchased from domestic suppliers. He is also the author of the bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 5865, which would require the development of a national strategy for revitalizing the American manufacturing sector to create good jobs. "At every Olympic Games, we celebrate the extraordinary accomplishments of our athletes and express our pride in our nation," Rep. Lipinski added. "For the USOC to use products made overseas when it could be obtaining them from American manufacturers is an affront to American workers, especially at a time of high unemployment."
07.11.2012	The following is the prepared text of Rep. Lipinski’s speech today on the House floor regarding the bill to repeal the health care law: Mr. Speaker, we have heard hours of impassioned speeches on the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare. Speeches defending all or nothing, speeches pitting us against them. But the American people aren’t interested in the politics and the posturing, they want us to focus on what we can do moving forward to make good health care more affordable for them without breaking the bank. I believe the ACA is deeply flawed. That’s why I parted ways with the majority of my Democratic colleagues and voted against it in 2010. At the same time, I know it includes a number of worthy new policies with strong support on both sides of the aisle. Why then are we being asked to blindly throw out the good with the bad, or alternatively, to simply let the law stand with no changes at all? About the only thing more broken than America’s health care system is the political process in Washington. As a diabetic, and someone who was hospitalized after a serious bike accident a few months before I was first elected, I came to Congress with a personal understanding of some of the problems with our health care system and I immediately began working to improve it. When work began on major health care reform legislation in the last Congress I had great hope. Unfortunately, on balance, the bill that was passed into law was not what we should have done. As I said on the day of the vote, "The bill does not do enough to lower the skyrocketing cost of health care, cuts more than $400 billion from Medicare, is not fiscally sustainable over the long term, and breaks with the status quo by allowing federal funding for abortion and abortion coverage." On the plus side, it expanded access to care and improved health insurance by doing things such as prohibiting discrimination based on pre-existing conditions and extending family coverage to children up to the age of 26. A few months after I voted against the ACA, at a town hall meeting in Hickory Hills I was asked by an opponent of the law if I would vote to repeal it. I said "no, we need a fix, not a repeal that would take us back to the status quo." He said, "ok, repeal and replace, keep the good parts and make other necessary changes." And that is exactly what we should be doing. I helped introduce and pass in the House legislation to repeal the ACA’s CLASS Act program, which would have added tens of billions of dollars to the deficit, and which Secretary Sebelius eventually conceded could not be implemented. I helped pass into law a bill to repeal the burdensome 1099 reporting requirement for small businesses that was included in the ACA. In addition, I worked to pass legislation to ensure that no taxpayer money is spent for abortion under the law. Finally, even before HHS formulated the "preventive service" mandate in a way which violates religious liberty, I cosponsored a bill to make sure Americans’ rights of conscience are protected. Now more must be done. At the start of this Congress, I hoped we could work on fixing the health care law, with "repeal and replace" or whatever it was going to be called. Instead, a bill was brought to the floor in January 2011 which would have eliminated the entire law with no exceptions. I opposed that bill. But I voted for a resolution instructing 4 House committees to develop replacement legislation. Yet 18 months later there is no replacement. Instead, we are again voting on repeal – period. And once again, we all know this bill will pass the House and die in the Senate where it fell 13 votes short of passage last year. When I voted against the repeal bill the first time, I said, "The choice should not be all-or-nothing, take-it-or-leave-it – between the prior status quo and the health care law exactly as written." But when neither side will give an inch, you get what we have here today: political theater, instead of the problem-solving needed by hard-working people struggling with the high cost of health care. A Chicago Tribune editorial recently stated: "If Democrats want to save the ambitions of this law, they’re going to have to find a way to write a Truly Affordable Care Act." And it concluded that Republicans "ought to engage Democrats in a real effort to contain the costs before the law takes full effect in 2014."? I wholeheartedly agree. Let’s stop the posturing, roll up our sleeves, and work to make health care work for all Americans in a fiscally sound manner.
06.29.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement today on the passage of a bipartisan, 27-month transportation reauthorization bill after a nearly three-year delay, and the passage of bipartisan legislation to prevent student loan interest rates from doubling. “For more than three years, I have been urging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join together to pass a robust, bipartisan, long-term transportation reauthorization bill,” said Rep. Lipinski, the most senior member of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee from northeastern Illinois. “Today, Congress has finally acted. Although we would be much better able to take care of our infrastructure needs locally and nationally with a bill that was longer and more robust, this bill is significantly better than a tenth short-term extension of current law or the bill proposed by House Republicans earlier this year, which I was able to help defeat with bipartisan support. The legislation we passed today will help create jobs now, relieve congestion, and promote long-term economic growth by investing in much-needed road and mass transit infrastructure projects. While it is not perfect, and one may question some of the compromises it includes, on balance it is good for our region and our country. Here in northeastern Illinois, the transportation hub of America and perhaps the most congested region in the country, we desperately need to invest in fixing our roads and mass transit. We all spend far too much time stuck in traffic or dealing with frustrating delays. After a week full of partisan battling, passage of this bill is a reminder that if both sides work together, we can still move our country forward and address pressing issues for the American people.” “As I had previously, I voted today to prevent some student loan rates from doubling to 6.8 percent. Middle-class families and students are already struggling to afford the cost of higher education. Failure to act would have caused interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans to double for more than 7 million students. A college degree is increasingly necessary in today’s economy. But the obstacles to getting and paying for one are rising, as tuition and fees have doubled over the last two decades and graduates now leave college with an average debt of more than $25,000. As a former teacher, and the ranking member on the Research and Science Education Subcommittee, I look forward to continuing to work to make college more affordable.” “It is not too early to look ahead to the next transportation bill, given the lengthy delay that preceded passage of today’s legislation. Next Congress, when I could be the most senior Illinois member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, we will need to quickly get to work on developing a robust, bipartisan, and truly long-term transportation reauthorization, hopefully lasting five years.”
06.28.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following updated statement regarding the bipartisan agreement reached by House and Senate negotiators on the long-awaited transportation reauthorization bill, which will help create jobs, relieve congestion, and promote economic growth by fixing our roads and mass transit: "This agreement is an example of the bipartisanship we need to see in Washington in order to move our country forward and help promote job creation," said Rep. Lipinski, the most senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee from northeastern Illinois. "On a day when partisan bickering is clearly on display, the parties have finally worked together on something for the good of the American people – an all-too-rare occurrence. Certainly I would not claim this bill is perfect; compromises were made, some of which can be questioned. But after almost three years without a long-term bill – during which time I repeatedly urged action – we now have legislation that on balance will help create jobs, relieve congestion, and promote economic growth. This bill is important for northeastern Illinois. As I did publicly last Friday with several of my colleagues from across the aisle, I urge my colleagues to join together to pass this bill before funding runs out on Saturday. "The fact that this bill is a year longer than expected is welcome, as it will help provide the certainty needed to undertake some larger projects. I am glad that it authorizes the Projects of National and Regional Significance Program and provides substantial funding for mass transit, both of which I fought hard for. The Projects of National and Regional Significance program was the source of the first $100 million that I obtained for the CREATE rail modernization project in the last transportation reauthorization bill and could provide funding for other large and important projects in northeastern Illinois, such as the Illiana Expressway. I helped introduce an amendment in committee in an effort to include this program in the House bill. Earlier this year, I joined with several of my Republican colleagues to help defeat a misguided Republican proposal that would have put $450 million for the CTA, Metra, and Pace at risk by ending guaranteed funding for mass transit. Thankfully, this bill does not include that proposal, and instead will provide needed investments in mass transit. I am also glad that the conferees were able to reach an agreement on including streamlining provisions that will make it possible for transportation projects to break ground more quickly. As a supporter of expanding public-private partnerships in order to increase investment in infrastructure, I support the bill’s increased funding for the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act. Other positive measures that I have worked for and supported include providing funding for mass transit projects that expand capacity and were not previously eligible for funding, which could be used to rebuild transit lines in Chicagoland; and providing grant funding for rail modernization and repair, which would also benefit local transit agencies. "Even now it is not too early to look ahead to the next transportation bill. Congress should seek to avoid a repeat of the nearly three years that we have gone without a long-term transportation reauthorization bill. Next Congress, when I could be the most senior Illinois member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, we will need to get to work on developing a robust, bipartisan, and truly long-term transportation reauthorization, hopefully lasting five years." The bill does not include the Keystone pipeline; Rep. Lipinski has supported building Keystone.
06.28.2012	In a protest against the handling of the investigation of the Fast and Furious Operation by both the White House and congressional Republicans, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today cast a vote of “present” on the resolution recommending Attorney General Eric Holder be held in contempt of Congress and condemned the Fast and Furious program as a disastrous and deadly mistake. “In casting my vote today, I want to send a message that I believe Washington still has not received: partisan battles are not a substitute for progress,” Rep. Lipinski said. “When both sides seek to intensify conflicts rather than find a way forward, crafting solutions to pressing problems becomes that much more difficult. It’s time for the parties to stop focusing on what is to their political advantage and start focusing on what they can accomplish together for the American people. “The gun-trafficking operation known as Fast and Furious that was run by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms on the U.S.-Mexico border was a disastrous mistake in both conception and execution. The fact that several of the guns that federal agents declined to confiscate in their efforts to build a larger gun-trafficking case were found at the scene of the killing of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry is profoundly disturbing and deeply regrettable. This program put both law enforcement and the public at risk. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee was right to launch a vigorous investigation of Fast and Furious. “I also have concerns about the decision to invoke executive privilege in response to the Committee’s request for certain Justice Department documents, although these documents date not from the period during which Fast and Furious was conceived and executed but from the period during which the Department was responding to Congressional and media inquiries. I believe it is questionable whether executive privilege extends to these documents. As someone who used to teach American government, I am especially aware that invoking executive privilege in such a case may risk setting a precedent that will undermine Congress’ ability to conduct oversight and investigations of the executive branch. Furthermore, despite the invocation of executive privilege, I believe that the Attorney General could have been more forthcoming with the subpoenaed documents, either producing them to the Committee, or for in camera review at the DOJ offices if documents were too sensitive to release. Some of these documents may fall into protected classes, such as those under seal by a court, but the DOJ’s reluctance to release all documents after February 4, 2011 is questionable. More time is needed to examine the Administration’s claim. “But House Republicans are not willing to give any more time. They appear to be intent on provoking a partisan battle by rushing ahead with this contempt vote at a time when it is more bipartisan cooperation that is sorely needed. Attorney General Holder has testified nine times about Fast and Furious, produced 7600 documents, and expressed an interest in reaching an agreement to produce more documents. And a sitting cabinet member has never been held in contempt by the House of Representatives before. “Rather than voting ‘yes’ and escalating this dispute and moving toward uncharted waters, or voting ‘no’ and sending a message of support for the Attorney General’s actions up until this point, my ‘present’ vote sends a message to both sides: sit down and seek a resolution that addresses all legitimate concerns, and preserve a proper check and balance in federal government.”
06.28.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement today on the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision regarding the 2010 health care law: “More than two years have passed since I voted against the health care law because it is unaffordable, cuts Medicare, does not do enough to lower the soaring cost of health care, and would allow federal funding for abortion,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The details about the law that have emerged in the meantime have only added to my concerns, and I have continued to work to fix the many problems with it. The Supreme Court’s decision does not change my opposition to the law or my dedication to changing the law. As I said at the time of my vote, there can be no doubt that our health care system is in serious need of reform. Today, that remains the case. The soaring cost of health care is a very serious problem, and is among the biggest contributors to the budget deficits our nation faces. Amid the partisan reactions to this news, we should remember the real problems with our health care system and the need to address them in a sensible and fiscally sustainable manner. The court’s decision may divide us, but the need for high-quality, affordable medical care unites us all.” Congressman Lipinski was the first Democrat to cosponsor legislation to repeal the CLASS Act, a fatally flawed long-term care insurance program included in the health care law that would have added tens of billions of dollars to the federal deficit, as experts agreed and even Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius eventually conceded before deciding not to implement the program. He also voted to repeal the CLASS Act. In addition, he helped lead the successful effort to eliminate an expensive and burdensome tax-reporting requirement for small businesses that was part of the law. Congressman Lipinski continues to oppose the health care law’s requirement that all employers provide insurance coverage for birth control and abortion-inducing drugs. This mandate is an attack on freedom of conscience and violates the long-standing tradition of protection for conscience rights in federal law.
06.22.2012	With federal transportation funding set to expire on June 30, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), Rep. Robert Dold (R-Ill.), Rep. Judy Biggert (R-Ill.), CTA President Forrest Claypool, Metra Executive Director/CEO Alex Clifford, and other transportation, labor, and business leaders called on members on both sides of the aisle to join together to finally pass a bipartisan transportation reauthorization bill before time runs out. In the last 48 hours, intense negotiations between the House and Senate have gotten underway in an effort to reach a compromise ahead of next week’s deadline. But a bill will not be passed unless enough members on both sides of the aisle put aside partisanship and push congressional leaders to reach a compromise. "After nine extensions lasting 1001 days, we are coming together – Democrat and Republican, business and labor, a variety of transportation leaders – to tell Washington that it must act now; immediate job creation, congestion relief, and economic growth cannot wait any longer," Rep. Lipinski said. "In the last 48 hours, we have seen encouraging progress and a renewed commitment by House and Senate negotiators to try to get a bill done as quickly as possible. Whether it is a compromise forged by the House and Senate Conference Committee or the bipartisan Senate transportation bill, we must pass a reauthorization bill. At a time of high unemployment, and with the summer construction season upon us, a longer-term bill will create jobs, relieve congestion, and promote economic growth by fixing our ailing roads and mass transit. This is critical for Chicagoland, for Illinois, and for our entire nation." "In eight days, current transportation funding comes to an end," Rep. Dold said. "We cannot continue to operate on short-term extensions that do nothing but continue to heighten uncertainty among construction workers and state and local governments. I urge my colleagues to come together and pass a bipartisan transportation bill that provides certainty for our long-term construction projects and includes adequate funding for mass transit." "There are no Republican roads or Democrat roads," Rep. Biggert said. "Our investment in infrastructure should not be a partisan issue. And transportation managers in Illinois need a long-term bill to move forward on projects that will grow our economy and keep traffic moving." "I applaud Representatives Dold, Lipinski, and Biggert for their bipartisan efforts in pushing their colleagues to pass a highway and transit bill this month," President Claypool said. "The transit provisions being negotiated could increase CTA formula funds by over $20 million per year, thereby allowing CTA to rehab rail lines, rail cars, and buses for the benefit of everyday commuters throughout Chicago." Congress typically passes a major bill to invest in America’s roads, bridges, railroads, and mass transit every four to six years. Yet at a time of high unemployment and inadequate job growth, it has failed to pass a long-term bill since the last one expired in September 2009, leaving transportation in the lurch. "Congress needs to get the job done to secure jobs and provide a safe transportation system," said David Kennedy, Executive Director of the American Council of Engineering Companies of Illinois and a member of the Transportation for Illinois Coalition.?"We are so thankful that members of the Illinois Congressional delegation get it and are working together in a bi-partisan way to finally pass a transportation reauthorization." "With the high price of gas, Americans are commuting to work on public transit at record rates," said Jordan Matyas, RTA Chief of Staff. "As our economy works to recover, now is the time for Congress to pass a bipartisan measure to provide the funding certainty needed to invest in transit infrastructure and create jobs." Reps. Lipinski, Dold, and Biggert previously worked together to help defeat proposals in the House Republican bill that would have slashed funding for state roads and highways and put $450 million for local public transportation at risk by taking motor-fuel tax money away from mass transit. ?
06.20.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski will host a Veterans Fair from 10 a.m. to noon on Monday, June 25, at the Johnson-Phelps VFW Post #5220, 9514 South 52nd Avenue, Oak Lawn. At the Congressman’s Veterans Fair, Congressional staff, the Illinois and U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs, and other organizations will offer assistance with a variety of veterans’ issues, including: Military personnel and medical records, veterans’ claims and benefits, medals earned but not received, VA Hospital billing, placement in VA homes, GI Bill information, nominations for Service Academies, and requesting a U.S. Capitol flag. For more information, call 312-886-0481.
06.20.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced that a new $10.4 million federal grant will pay for two projects that are part of the CREATE rail modernization project, reducing freight congestion and delays for Amtrak and Metra Heritage Corridor riders. The funding for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency program (CREATE) comes from the Transportation Investments Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program. “Having led members of the Illinois Congressional delegation in sending a letter to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood urging the award of this funding, I am pleased to have once again helped to secure additional dollars for CREATE,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Back in 2005, I secured the first $100 million for this critical program to promote economic growth by untangling our rail lines and reducing congestion for freight railways, passenger and commuter rail, and motorists. Since then I have been proud to work at both the federal level and with the Illinois General Assembly to obtain substantial additional funding for numerous CREATE projects that are benefitting Third District residents in both Chicago and the suburbs.” The $10.4 million grant is paying for two projects between 16th Street and Archer Avenue in Chicago that will construct additional rail tracks and modernize the existing switching system, which currently requires train conductors to exit their trains to throw switches by hand. These improvements will help reduce delays for Amtrak and Metra Heritage Corridor trains that cross the impacted corridor. CREATE is a first-of-its-kind public-private partnership. The CREATE Partners include the U.S. Department of Transportation, Illinois Department of Transportation, Chicago Department of Transportation and the Association of American Railroads. The program includes 70 critical rail and road infrastructure improvements in Northeastern Illinois aimed at reducing congestion for freight, passenger and commuter rail users, and motorists.
06.20.2012	Legislation introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) to require the development of a national strategy to revitalize American manufacturing and create good jobs was approved today by the Energy & Commerce Committee by unanimous voice vote with the strong support and help of Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.). The committee’s approval sets up an expected House vote on the bill. The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 5865, is a revised version of Rep. Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act, which passed the House with strong bipartisan support, 379-38, in the last Congress. "Not much is getting done in Congress right now, and almost nothing is getting accomplished to help the middle class," Rep. Lipinski said. "That is why I am especially proud to have moved this bipartisan bill forward in order to commit our nation to boosting manufacturing and growing jobs. In my home state, manufacturing employment is up by 40,000 since 2010, marking the first time the industry has really added jobs in Illinois since 1998. Yet we have a very long way to go to get back the factory jobs we lost during the 2000s, as American companies and workers face foreign competitors who benefit from coordinated, strategic policymaking by their home governments. We need to recognize this reality and bring the public and private sectors together to develop a bipartisan national strategy to revitalize American manufacturing. Manufacturing is critical for national security, an essential source of good-paying jobs for the middle class, and drives high-tech innovation. I fully expect that the House will pass this bill soon, and that when the strategy is issued it will have the support and momentum needed to give American manufacturing a decisive boost. I thank Rep. Kinzinger for his help in shaping this legislation and moving it forward as a member of the Energy & Commerce Committee." H.R. 5865 will bring the public and private sectors and both parties together to forge an actionable plan to promote the success of American manufacturing. The bill creates a bipartisan Manufacturing Competitiveness Board consisting of 15 members, five from the public sector appointed by the President – including two governors from different parties – and 10 from the private sector appointed by the House and Senate, with the majority appointing three and the minority two in each chamber. The Board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the U.S. manufacturing sector, covering everything from trade issues to taxation, regulation, and new technologies. Based on this analysis, it will develop a strategy that includes specific goals and specific recommendations for achieving those goals. The first strategy is due in 2014 and the second in 2018. Despite job losses and outsourcing, American manufacturers remain the world’s most productive, employ 11 million people, and produce $1.7 trillion annually. With labor costs rising in China and cheap natural gas available here at home, many companies are considering moving factories back to the United States. Encouragingly, U.S. manufacturing employment has increased by almost 500,000 recently. On Friday, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that Illinois manufacturers added 4,800 jobs in May. "In Illinois alone, 574,883 people are employed by the manufacturing sector," said Congressman Kinzinger. "This is an industry that folks in my district rely on and is one of the most vital components of our economic and national security.?At a time when we are on the brink of a new manufacturing renaissance in this country, the only barriers that pose a threat to this recovery would be government created. In an effort to eliminate these potential barriers, Washington must reduce the partisan gridlock and put forward a long-term strategy constructed by manufacturing experts who know best to focus our attention on the challenges inhibiting our global competitiveness. I look forward to continue working with Congressman Lipinski to bring this bipartisan legislation to the House floor."? "As a business owner, I know planning is critical," said Zach Mottl, Director of Development for Atlas Tool & Die Works of Lyons, which has been owned by his family since 1918. "Plan, execute, review: that is the core of any good business model. Unfortunately, when an organization doesn’t operate with a plan, what occurs is a plan to fail. Right now the United States is operating without a manufacturing strategy in a world where other countries are intensely focused on helping their manufacturers to compete. The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act will bring all sides and stakeholders together to forge a strategy with broad support and the momentum needed to produce action. I applaud Rep. Lipinski for his leadership in introducing this bill and thank Rep. Kinzinger for his efforts as well." "One of the best kept secrets in Washington is that the decline of manufacturing has been a major cause of America’s economic predicament," said Robert Atkinson, President of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. "The countries poised to compete successfully in today’s global economy have strategies for sustaining vibrant, dynamic manufacturing sectors. The United States lacks such a strategy at great peril. With its broad, bipartisan support, the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act should pass Congress easily. We can no longer delay taking an honest look at what we’ve lost already from our inattention to manufacturing. We must get moving on a plan to revitalize our industrial base, and the Act creates a vital framework for doing so." "Successful manufacturers provide huge numbers of jobs – while Facebook employs about 3,000 people, Boeing employs 172,000," Rep. Lipinski said. "Plus manufacturing has greater spillover effects, with every job supporting numerous additional jobs. When we lose manufacturing due to outsourcing, we lose the ability to create the breakthrough technologies of tomorrow – as occurred when consumer electronics manufacturing migrated to Asia and became a source of revolutionary battery technologies for hybrid and electric cars. Naysayers and pessimists might consider the case of Germany, where manufacturing labor costs are 25 percent higher than in the U.S., yet manufacturing employment basically held steady even as it plummeted by 6.2 million jobs here – one-third of the total. After a decade that saw Washington turn its back on manufacturing even as other countries sought to give their manufacturers every advantage, we need a national strategy that unleashes American manufacturing’s potential." ####
06.14.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced that legislation he helped write and pass in February will provide funding for the badly needed resurfacing of a runway at Lewis University Airport, helping the airport to attract more businesses to northern Will County and southwest Cook County, and promote regional job creation and economic growth. The work is being paid for by a new $2.4 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration under the four-year FAA reauthorization bill that Congressman Lipinski helped write and pass in February as northeastern Illinois’ most senior member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee’s Aviation Subcommittee. "I’m very pleased to have helped provide this funding for Lewis University Airport so that it can continue to grow and attract new businesses and jobs to Romeoville, Lockport, and the surrounding communities," Rep. Lipinski said. "This is an urgently needed step in building the airport’s potential as a magnet for economic growth. I’m going to continue working to ensure that the federal government recognizes the need to enhance capacity at Lewis University Airport and invest in its future." Lewis University Airport’s first runway dates to 1990 and must be reconstructed to continue accommodating the larger aircraft that use the airport now and will continue to do so as it grows. "Lewis University Airport has a vital role to play as we work to attract more employers, which is why I’ve been working to assure its current and future health," said Romeoville Mayor John Noak, who serves as a member of the Joliet Regional Port District Board. "This grant is much needed and much appreciated, and I thank Rep. Lipinski for all his efforts on the airport’s behalf at the federal level." In November, Congressman Lipinski brought the head of the FAA’s Airports Division to the airport to meet with numerous local officials and discuss plans for the airport’s future and how it can stimulate further economic growth and job creation in nearby communities. The visit by Christa Fornarotto, the FAA’s Associate Administrator for Airports, was the first by such a high-level FAA official in memory. Owned and operated by the Joliet Regional Port District, Lewis University Airport accommodates 105,000 arrivals and departures annually. Its convenient location near three major interstate highways in a fast-growing area has attracted numerous Fortune 500 and other corporate aircraft users and makes it a key selling point for the region as it seeks to attract jobs. ####
06.07.2012	Bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) to require the development of a national strategy to revitalize American manufacturing and create good jobs was approved today by the Energy & Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade with the strong support and help of Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.). The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 5865, is the latest version of Rep. Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act, which passed the House with strong bipartisan support, 379-38, in the 111th Congress. “American companies and their workers are operating at a severe disadvantage as they face foreign competitors who benefit from coordinated, strategic government policies that benefit manufacturing,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We need to recognize this reality and bring the public and private sectors together to develop a national manufacturing strategy that specifies recommendations for the optimal tax, trade, research, regulatory, and innovation policies that will enable American manufacturing to thrive. Manufacturing is critical for national security, an essential source of good-paying jobs for the middle class, and drives high-tech innovation. This bill is a fully bipartisan document, and I believe that when the strategy is issued it could have as immediate an impact on U.S. manufacturing policy as the Rising Above the Gathering Storm report had on U.S. science policy when it led directly to passage of the America COMPETES Act. I want to thank Rep. Kinzinger, whose strong support, willingness to reach across the aisle, and help in shaping this legislation have been instrumental to moving it forward.” “There is no sector of our economy that is providing more highly paid and economically advantageous jobs than manufacturing,” said Congressman Kinzinger. “Since coming to Congress, I’ve heard from manufacturers in my home state of Illinois about the importance of creating an environment that will allow American manufacturing to thrive in a global economy. We are on the brink of a new manufacturing renaissance in this country; the only barriers that pose a threat to this recovery would be government created. In an effort to eliminate these potential barriers, I’m proud to work with Congressman Lipinski to put forward bipartisan legislation that puts forward a long-term strategy to focus our attention on the challenges inhibiting our global competitiveness.” After a decade that saw the loss of 6.2 million American manufacturing jobs – one third of the total – we need a manufacturing strategy that leads to action, as called for by numerous organizations and individuals. That is why H.R. 5865 is designed to bring the public and private sectors and both parties together to forge an actionable plan to promote the success of American manufacturing. This legislation creates a bipartisan Manufacturing Competitiveness Board consisting of 15 members, five from the public sector appointed by the President – including two governors from different parties – and 10 from the private sector appointed by the House and Senate, with the majority appointing three and the minority two in each chamber. The Board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the U.S. manufacturing sector, covering everything from trade issues to taxation, regulation, and new technologies. Based on this analysis, it will develop a strategy that includes specific goals and specific recommendations for achieving those goals. The first strategy is due in 2014 and the second in 2018. Despite job losses and outsourcing, American manufacturing has many strengths and enormous potential. U.S. manufacturers are the world’s most productive, employ 11 million people, and produce $1.7 trillion annually. With labor costs rising in China and cheap natural gas available here at home, many companies are considering moving factories back to the United States. Encouragingly, U.S. manufacturing employment has increased by almost 500,000 recently. “Successful manufacturers provide huge numbers of jobs – while Facebook employs about 3,000 people, Boeing employs 172,000,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Plus manufacturing has greater spillover effects, with every job supporting numerous additional jobs. When we lose manufacturing due to outsourcing, we lose the ability to create the breakthrough technologies of tomorrow – as occurred when consumer electronics manufacturing migrated to Asia and became the source of revolutionary battery technologies for hybrid and electric cars. Naysayers and pessimists might consider the case of Germany, where manufacturing labor costs are 25 percent higher than in the U.S., yet manufacturing employment basically held steady even as it plummeted by a third here. After a decade that saw Washington turn its back on manufacturing even as other countries sought to give their manufacturers every advantage, we need a national strategy that unleashes American manufacturing’s potential.”
05.18.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) welcomed 7th and 8th grade students from Lemont to Washington today, congratulating them on the sustainable energy plans they presented to members of the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Caucus as part of Project Infinite Green. Project Infinite Green is a new afterschool program that brings together energy experts from government and the private sector to teach students about renewable energy and help them to develop plans for its increased use. Joining Rep. Lipinski at the presentations were caucus co-chair Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (MD) and Rep. Judy Biggert (IL-13), both of whom serve with Lipinski on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “As the co-chair of the STEM Education Caucus, I was really impressed by all the learning, thought, and effort that the students displayed in their presentations,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It’s bright, motivated kids like them that are going to help lead us toward the sustainable, low-cost energy economy of tomorrow. If our country and our children are going to compete and succeed in the high-tech, global economy, it is absolutely essential that we improve science, technology, engineering, and math achievement. To do that, we need to focus both on classroom education and on getting kids excited about STEM in other ways. Project Infinite Green deserves great credit for doing that with an innovative, collaborative approach. I applaud the students, teachers, parents, and mentors for their great work.” “We are honored that our students had this opportunity to present their energy-based business plans to members of Congress,” said Catherine Greenspon, a Lemont community member and co-founder of Project Infinite Green. “We hope their presentations will spark innovative ideas on how to implement new energy technologies in our nation, and that it will help grow national interest in STEM education. I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for all his support and for making this event possible for our students.” The students’ presentations focused on hydroelectric, nuclear, and solar energy use. Plans included oscillating water columns designed to harness wave power in states bordered by oceans, solar islands to assist solar generation in states that cannot use traditional solar farms, and a mobile application designed to increase nuclear awareness. The students were accompanied by teachers, parents, and mentors, including representatives from Argonne National Laboratory, CITGO, and Exelon. Project Infinite Green was launched in October 2011 as a joint effort by community residents and teachers, government officials and corporate partners, to offer students in Lemont the opportunity to learn about the science and business of both non-renewable and renewable energy sources. Industry experts from government and private sector entities—includingthe U.S. Department of Energy, Navigant, CITGO Petroleum Corporation, Exelon Nuclear, the Clean Energy Trust, Edison Mission Energy, and Argonne National Laboratory—have participated as mentors. The bipartisan STEM Education Caucus was founded in 2005 to provide a forum for Congress and the science, education, and business communities to discuss challenges, problems, and solutions related to STEM Education. In addition to serving as co-chair of the STEM Education Caucus, Rep. Lipinski is the ranking member of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee. A former teacher, he is one of the few members of Congress with a degree in engineering. “One of the biggest challenges we face is finding a way to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and develop energy sources that are not only sustainable but affordable,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The more talented, motivated, and skilled young people we have who can lead the effort to overcome that challenge, the better off America will be.” ####
05.11.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski today led 22 local elected officials in sending a letter to Metra urging it to add two rush hour trains to the Heritage Corridor line – one morning inbound train and one evening outbound train. Lemont Mayor Brian Reaves and Romeoville Mayor John Noak delivered the letter to Metra’s Board of Directors at its meeting in Chicago this morning. "The bottom line is that the current level of service of just three round trip trains per day on the Heritage Corridor isn’t nearly enough," Rep. Lipinski said. "Will County’s population has surged by 175,000 in the last decade, and Cook County communities along the line have also grown. But Heritage Corridor service has not kept pace. That’s why today we are all speaking with one voice to urge Metra to add one inbound and one outbound rush hour train as a first step toward expanding service." "I believe we can add one inbound morning rush hour train and one outbound evening rush hour train without needing to make costly infrastructure upgrades," Rep. Lipinski added. "While a study was recently done that looks at the possibility of adding trains to the Heritage Corridor, it only considered what would be needed to add six new Metra trains. Moreover, it focused on adding trains during midday, which is not what we are seeking. Adding the two trains we are talking about is something that we should be able to do in the near future at modest cost." The Heritage Corridor line runs between Joliet and Chicago’s Union Station, with stops in Summit, Willow Springs, Lemont, and Lockport. With just three round trip trains per day it offers less service than any other Metra line, leaving a major mass transit gap in the southwest suburbs between Metra’s Southwest Service and BNSF lines. "With the addition of a new Romeoville station next year, adding more trains to the Heritage Corridor is a top priority for the village," Romeoville Mayor John Noak said. "Our population has almost doubled in the last decade, and with growth continuing in the area, we need to give residents more options for getting to work." "Lemont residents have been clamoring for more service on the Heritage Corridor," Lemont Mayor Brian Reaves said. "This is something that is truly needed and I strongly encourage Metra to give full attention and consideration to this request." In addition to pushing for more trains on the Heritage Corridor, Congressman Lipinski has been working to improve on-time performance. Following a meeting he arranged between Metra and CN in January, the line went from Metra’s worst on-time performer in December to its best in February. For the first four months of this year, on-time performance has ranged between 95 percent and 99 percent. "We commend Metra for making improvements that led to better on-time performance on the Heritage line," Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno (R-Lemont) said. "Now we believe they can and should take the next step to ensure residents of our region get access to the service options they deserve as well." "I look forward to continuing to work productively with Metra and with local elected officials to expand and improve service on the Heritage Corridor," Rep. Lipinski said. "Adding one train each way is the first step toward providing the level of service that the communities along the Heritage Corridor deserve." The letter to Metra was signed by Illinois Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno; State Sen. Steven Landek; State Sen. Pat McGuire; Cook County Commissioner Jeffery R. Tobolski; Bedford Park Village President David R. Brady; Assistant House Minority Leader Jim Durkin; Will County Executive Lawrence M. Walsh; 23rd Ward Ald. Michael Zalewski; Crest Hill Mayor Raymond R. Soliman; Homer Glen Mayor James P. Daley; Justice Village President KrzysztofWasowicz; Lemont Mayor Brian K. Reaves; Lockport Mayor Dev Trivedi; Romeoville Mayor John D. Noak; Summit Mayor Joseph W. Strzelczyk; Joliet Mayor Tom Giarrante; State Rep. Michael Zalewski; Cook County Commissioner Joan Patricia Murphy; State Rep. Emily McAsey; State Rep. Lawrence Walsh Jr; and Willow Springs Mayor Alan Nowaczyk.
05.08.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will hold a Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, May 19, to hear from his constituents and take their questions about federal issues. He will also hold Senior Fairs on Monday, May 14, and Tuesday, May 29, to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses. TOWN HALL MEETING Saturday, May 19, 10 a.m. American Legion Post 1941 900 South La Grange Road, La Grange, Illinois Starting one hour before the meeting, staff will assist constituents with Social Security and other federal issues. SENIOR FAIRS Monday, May 14, 10 a.m. — Noon American Legion 6050 South Harlem Avenue, Summit, Illinois Tuesday, May 29, 10 a.m. — Noon Moraine Valley Community College 9000 West College Parkway, Palos Hills, Illinois (Enter at 111th Street) The Congressman’s staff will provide help with Social Security, Medicare, and other federal issues at his Senior Fairs. Numerous other organizations will also provide assistance. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. ####
04.27.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted for the Interest Rate Reduction Act, H.R. 4628, to prevent interest rates on federally subsidized student loans from doubling to 6.8 percent at a time when middle class families and students are already struggling to afford the cost of higher education. "If Congress fails to act, interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans will double for more than 7 million students, costing them an additional $1,000," Rep. Lipinski said. "I voted for this bill because I believe we should be making it easier – not harder – to get a college education. Unfortunately, Washington has once again turned what should be a bipartisan effort into an ugly, pointless, and potentially protracted political battle. Talk about snatching defeat out of the jaws of victory. Certainly, I would have preferred to have voted on the House Democratic bill, which would prevent the rate hike and pay for it by eliminating subsidies for huge multinational oil companies. But House Republican leaders were not about to let that happen, and we were forced instead to vote on H.R. 4628. Now that the House has passed this bill, I will be encouraging my colleagues in both the House and Senate to call a truce and find a way to pay for keeping student loan interest rates low that both parties and the American people can support. "A college degree is increasingly necessary in today’s competitive, global, high-tech economy. But the obstacles to getting and paying for one are rising, as tuition and fees have doubled over the last two decades, graduates now leave college with an average debt of more than $25,000, and total student loan debt nationwide has surpassed total credit card debt. As a former teacher, and the ranking member on the Research and Science Education Subcommittee, I have been working to make sure everyone has access to a quality education that prepares them for a successful career. That is what I am going to continue to do, while opposing efforts to politicize an issue that is enormously important to the middle class, which faces soaring costs for higher education and a weak economy that makes it difficult to find a good-paying job even for those who have earned a college degree."
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The U.S. House passed The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act Friday, taking an essential step toward securing our federal computer networks and critical infrastructure, while helping to protect businesses and individuals from cybercrime. H.R. 2096, introduced by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and co-sponsored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL), passed the House 395-10. “If agents of a foreign government broke into the Pentagon and stole top-secret documents from filing cabinets it simply would not be tolerated, yet this is what happens every day in the virtual world,” said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee. “China has already stolen critical design and electronics information for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, allowing them not only to copy the plane, but to guard against it as well. That breach is a direct threat to our national security, the safety of the American people and our interests abroad. Hardening our networks against espionage must be a top priority,” added Rep. McCaul, who is also a member of the Speaker’s Cyber Taskforce and co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “Cybercrime poses an enormous and under-recognized threat to America’s national security, economy, businesses, and households,” said Rep. Lipinski, the Research and Science Education Subcommittee Ranking Member, who introduced the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act in the 111th Congress. “This bipartisan bill will help eliminate the shortfall of skilled cybersecurity professionals and develop the technologies we need to defend our infrastructure, industry, and the public from cybercrime. Foreign countries as well as international criminal organizations have penetrated the computer defenses of military contractors, government agencies, and financial and other companies whose systems control critical infrastructure. Intellectual property theft by hackers based in China now constitutes a new form of trade war that blunts America’s competitive edge. Yesterday, the Homeland Security Committee heard from witnesses about Iran’s development of a ‘cyber army.’ Meanwhile, identity theft is a growth industry costing $50 billion annually. I urge the Senate to follow the lead of the House and quickly pass this legislation for the sake of the American people.” An October 2011 report to Congress on foreign economic collection and industrial espionage states it is part of China and Russia’s national policy to try to identify and steal sensitive technology to blunt America’s competitive edge and bolster their own economic growth. The McCaul-Lipinski bill will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build our American cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily on cybersecurity R&D. “These important bills will help promote more security and reliability in our networks while safeguarding consumers' rights and information," Christopher Padilla, Vice President, IBM Governmental Programs, said of the McCaul-Lipinski legislation and three other cyber bills before the House. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce calls the McCaul-Lipinski bill “an important step toward improving federal cybersecurity R&D activities to improve the security, reliability, and resilience of America’s digital infrastructure in partnership with industry.” The bill: Improves R&D: Requires a strategic plan to guide federal cybersecurity research and development and reauthorizes cybersecurity research and development programs. Develops the skilled cybersecurity workforce needed by both government and the private sector: Creates cybersecurity scholarship programs at NSF that can be repaid with federal service and reauthorizes cybersecurity fellowship grants and training for graduate students. Improves coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development between the public and private sectors. Improves coordination in government: Gives the National Institute of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop automated checklists for agencies to follow. Improves computer hygiene: Creates an education and awareness program, which the NSA says would help remedy the majority of vulnerabilities we face. Sets forth procurement standards for hardware and software that will minimize security risks and have a ripple effect on the private sector. Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage, with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. Other attacks are believed to have been attempts to shut down federal networks and cause harm.
04.19.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted for legislation that will enable the House and Senate to finally go to conference and produce a bipartisan transportation reauthorization bill. Reauthorization legislation, which is part of Rep. Lipinski’s Five Point Jobs Plan, will immediately put people to work fixing our roads, rails, and mass transit systems, thereby reducing congestion and promoting long-term job growth. "The bill we were forced to vote on today was by no means perfect," Rep. Lipinski said. "But everyone understands that partisan political games have made this a necessary step to get to a House/Senate compromise on the transportation bill. Having voted against an amendment to this bill that would weaken environmental protections, I will work to keep this problematic language out of the final legislation. However, I do support the approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline as a step toward reducing our dependence on oil imported from unstable and unfriendly countries, and I am hopeful that the Senate will accept that language in conference. "The best news regarding passage of this bill is that it marks the defeat of the partisan Republican bill that threatened massive cuts to local public transportation and significantly cut funding for Illinois roads. Having worked hard with a number of my colleagues across the aisle to make sure that those cuts did not occur, I am happy that we have succeeded. However, it is still very disappointing that the House did not pass a bipartisan, long-term transportation bill. I tried to work with Republican colleagues to develop a long-term bill, but in the end House Republican leaders failed to make a serious effort to involve Democrats and produce a bill that both parties could support. "With two and a half years having passed since the last transportation reauthorization expired, it is imperative that we pass a good, bipartisan bill that invests in our roads, bridges, mass transit, and railway system. Congress should aim to do this in a matter of weeks, not months. The delays that businesses and individuals face due to traffic here in northeastern Illinois amount to a tax on our economy that we cannot afford. It’s time to provide the certainty needed to put people to work building long-term transportation projects that benefit our entire region and the country. The partisan games must stop, and Washington must focus on producing results for the American people."
03.29.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped lead the effort to pass a balanced, bipartisan federal budget plan that takes a commonsense approach to cutting the deficit while strengthening the long-term sustainability of programs critical for the middle class. The budget was modeled on the plan put forth in 2010 by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, co-chaired by former Republican Sen. Alan Simpson and Democrat Erskine Bowles, and was introduced by five Democrats and four Republicans including Rep. Lipinski and fellow Illinois Reps. Mike Quigley and Robert Dold. When it was created, the original Simpson-Bowles Plan was supported by members on opposite ends of the ideological spectrum, such as Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.). “The only way we can provide the serious deficit reduction that everyone agrees we need is if both parties stop playing partisan games and agree to a balanced approach,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We cannot wait until after the election. The time to act is now. This budget is a genuine compromise and a bold attempt to repair our nation’s finances. That’s why I am pushing my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass it.” The budget plan voted on by the House today would trim the deficit by more than $4 trillion over the next 10 years, with two-thirds of the deficit savings coming from spending cuts and one-third from tax reform. It will simplify the tax code, get rid of tax loopholes, and lower tax rates for individuals and small businesses. It also includes a plan to preserve and strengthen critical programs such as Medicare and Social Security for future generations. Supporters of the budget plan include its namesakes, Erskine Bowles and former Sen. Alan Simpson; former Republican U.S. Sen. Pete Domenici and Democrat Alice Rivlin, the co-chairs of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Debt Reduction Task Force; the Concord Coalition; and the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. Former Sen. Domenici and Dr. Rivlin called the plan “the first truly bipartisan budget effort in the House of Representatives to recognize the need for both spending reform and a tax reform initiative that increases revenues for the future. The courage of the members who are supporting the Cooper-LaTourette budget shows that a vital middle can exist in Congress, despite the deeply polarized ideological atmosphere of the recent past. If the House passes Cooper-LaTourette, it will be a sign to the American people that our policymakers in Washington, D.C., have begun to recognize fiscal reality and are prepared to deal with it in a responsible and balanced manner.” Former Sen. Simpson and Erskine Bowles called the plan “the best hope for achieving the broad, bipartisan support necessary to enact a plan to bring our debt under control.” “I’m very disappointed that some on both the left and the right attacked and distorted this plan,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Continued partisan posturing means more gridlock and more deficits that our nation cannot afford. Washington has to wake up and recognize that reducing the national debt requires the courage and the vision to compromise. Otherwise, the American people will suffer as deficits continue to grow and drag down our economy.”
03.22.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) appeared before the Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations to testify in support of the National Science Foundation’s new Innovation Corps program. To boost economic growth, job creation, and the return on taxpayers’ investment in basic research, I-Corps has recruited experienced Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and venture capitalists to teach academic researchers how to become entrepreneurs. “The total cost of I-Corps is small – $7.5 million this year and $18.8 million requested for next fiscal year – but the potential value is enormous,” Rep. Lipinski told the subcommittee. “Over the decades, NSF-funded researchers have made a massive contribution to domestic economic growth. But given the size of the federal investment in research – $60 billion annually – the American people should be getting even more new companies and jobs for their money. I-Corps represents a low-cost way to get us across the much-discussed ‘Valley of Death’ that separates laboratory discoveries from profit-making companies that boost economic growth and American competitiveness.” Twenty-one teams – each typically consisting of a tenured academic, a graduate student and a business mentor drawn from their local community – have already completed the first eight-week I-Corps class. They are developing products such as a robotic weed-killer for organic farms, a sensor that increases safety and efficiency for chlorine producers, technology that more efficiently cools electronic devices, and a better process for producing graphene, a new material whose pioneers recently won a Nobel Prize. The second group of awardees was announced this week. I-Corps teaches the “Lean LaunchPad” method to starting a business. This method – which draws on decades of experience in Silicon Valley – focuses on talking to as many potential customers as possible, pivoting on a dime in response to the resulting insights, building low-cost prototypes to get customer feedback and constantly adapting. One of its key insights involves treating a startup not as a smaller version of a larger company but as “an organization formed to search for a repeatable and scalable business model.” “NSF grantees produce a remarkable abundance of groundbreaking research and new technologies,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But in many cases, they just don’t know how to translate their technology into a product that fulfills a specific customer need and can form the basis for a profitable company. I-Corps is helping us to bridge that gap, and I believe it’s critical that we provide it with the support it needs to grow and teach more scientists how to become successful, job-creating entrepreneurs.” Rep. Lipinski also urged subcommittee members to fund the NSF’s Advanced Manufacturing program in the Engineering Directorate at $68.4 million, as requested in the President’s budget.
03.22.2012	U.S.Representatives Dan Lipinski (D-Western Springs), Robert Dold (R-Winnetka), and Mike Quigley (D-Chicago), and U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) today applauded the Senate’s final passage of the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act (STOCK Act). The STOCK Act prohibits Members of Congress and federal employees from engaging in insider trading. Included in the final version of the STOCK Act is vital language introduced by Senator Kirk and Representative Dold, and co-sponsored by Representatives Lipinski and Quigley to expand current law that eliminates federal pension payouts for elected officials convicted of public corruption crimes. This measure protects the American public from yet another wasteful allocation of their taxpayer dollars by covering an additional 22 crimes, including insider trading, and ensuring that members forfeit their federal pensions if they go on to commit one of these public corruption felonies in any other elected office. A current loophole in the law means that imprisoned Governor Rod Blagojevich is still eligible to collect his roughly $15,000 per year congressional retirement payments because he committed his crimes after leaving Congress. "Any elected official who violates the public trust by committing a crime should forfeit their right to a taxpayer-financed pension," Rep. Lipinski said. "Especially when Americans are suffering in a bad economy, we should not be asking them to pay for the pensions for convicted felons. Passage of this legislation is a step toward a goal that I believe is of the utmost importance: restoring the public's faith in the integrity of our institutions and our elected officials." "American taxpayers should not be paying federal pension benefits of convicted felons, regardless of when the crime was committed," a spokesman for Senator Kirk said. "Passage of the STOCK Act is a commonsense way to save taxpayers money and help restore honor and faith in our democracy.” "Washington has spent enough of hardworking families' money and I am pleased to see that this bipartisan measure passed the Senate so that taxpayers will no longer be on the hook for the pension of lawmakers convicted of public corruption felonies," said Rep. Dold. "I applaud the swift passage of the STOCK Act as this is one step forward in restoring trust to the government. When a lawmaker commits a crime, they should be held accountable and felons like former Governor Blagojevich should not be receiving a taxpayer funded pension- today's action will correct this wrong." "Corrupt former legislators who continue collecting pensions on the taxpayer dime are taking advantage of the American people even after they've left office," said Rep. Quigley. "Passing the STOCK Act protects taxpayer investments and ends what could only be viewed as rewards for those who abuse the public's trust. Americans' trust in government is at an all-time low, and until we restore the public's trust, we can't lead or make the tough choices necessary to move forward."
03.12.2012	Citing a report that new train cars purchased by the CTA had to be recalled because faulty parts made in China could have caused serious safety problems, Congressman Dan Lipinski today urged Congress to pass legislation requiring trains purchased with federal money to be 100 percent made in America. Fortunately, before any breakdowns could occur CTA inspectors discovered the flaws and removed the cars from service. "It’s bad enough when taxpayer dollars are used to purchase foreign-made products and take away jobs from American workers," Rep. Lipinski said. "When those products are also faulty, it’s even worse. For years, I’ve been working to close loopholes in Buy America laws to make sure that our tax dollars purchase American-made products that support American jobs. This is just another example of why it is so important that we do so. The Invest in American Jobs Act, H.R. 3533, which I helped introduce last year, would require that trains and related equipment bought with federal money be entirely ‘Made in U.S.A.’" In addition, Rep. Lipinski helped push for an amendment that would have added language similar to H.R. 3533 to the House transportation reauthorization bill last month. Unfortunately, the amendment failed in the Republican-dominated Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. The congressman also coauthored an amendment to the House Republican transportation bill to achieve the same goal. Currently, Buy America laws only require that 60 percent of the cost of train components purchased with federal money be made in America. The Chicago Tribune reported this week that critical steel parts supplied by a foundry in China to Bombardier Transportation of Canada – with which the CTA has a $1.14 billion contract for 706 rail cars – were seriously defective, and could have wreaked havoc had they failed. The first 54 of the train cars were delivered and most were briefly placed in service last year before CTA inspectors detected the flawed parts. Bombardier is currently replacing the parts at the CTA’s insistence. Most of the funding was supplied by the Federal Transit Administration. "Because of these Chinese-made parts and Bombardier’s quality-control failures, CTA riders continue to put up with worn-out old train cars that require frequent and expensive maintenance and should have been retired long ago," Rep. Lipinski said. "Strengthening Buy America laws is critical to preventing something like this from happening again and to keeping our tax dollars here in the United States." As part of his effort to require the federal government to Buy American whenever possible, Rep. Lipinski has introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 2722, to close numerous loopholes in Buy America laws and stop the practice of spending taxpayer dollars on foreign-made products.
03.12.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced that the Heritage Corridor line went from Metra’s worst on-time performer in December to its best in February following a meeting he arranged between Metra and CN. Lipinski praised the on-time performance over the past two months and urged Metra and CN to continue working together to provide reliable service. The congressman has been working to improve and expand service on the Heritage Corridor. "Following significant problems in December, I asked Metra and CN to sit down and figure out how to prevent delays on the Heritage Corridor," Rep. Lipinski said. "Since the meeting we’ve seen 95 percent of trains on the line arrive on-time in January and 99 percent in February. This line doesn’t have to lag behind the rest of Metra’s system, as it has in the past. I thank CN and Metra for their efforts to improve on-time performance and I look forward to continuing to work with them to provide the service that Heritage Corridor riders deserve. This must not be just a short term improvement. Metra and CN must make sure it continues." "All of us at Metra have been working very hard to make sure Heritage Corridor riders get great service and on-time performance, and we are committed to making sure this is a long-term trend," said Metra Executive Director/CEO Alex Clifford. "We’d like to thank CN for their cooperation. Metra also is grateful to Rep. Lipinski – and I’m sure our riders are grateful to Rep. Lipinski – for his help in this area." "CN and Metra have a longstanding collaborative relationship, and CN has long recognized the importance of the service provided by Metra to commuters in the Chicago region on CN's lines, including the Heritage Corridor," said Jim Vena, CN’s Senior Vice President – Southern Region. "We value our partnership with Metra and look forward to a continued positive working relationship to ensure safe and timely service for Metra passengers as well as safe and efficient freight operations. And we thank Congressman Lipinski for his long-standing efforts to improve Illinois’ transportation network for all users." In accordance with the industry standard, Metra counts as late any train that arrives more than six minutes past schedule. The Heritage Corridor line runs between Joliet and Chicago’s Union Station, with stops in Summit, Willow Springs, Lemont, and Lockport. While its 75 percent on-time rate was Metra’s worst in December, its 99 percent rate was its best in February. "We certainly welcome every improvement on the Heritage Corridor line," Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno (R-Lemont) said. "Improving the on-time performance is another step in the right direction. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Lipinski, Metra, and CN to expand on-time, reliable service on the Heritage Corridor." Congressman Lipinski has worked successfully with Metra to improve service in the past, having helped to add and maintain weekend trains on the Southwest Service line, whose stops include Ashburn, Wrightwood, Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, Palos Heights, Palos Park, and Orland Park.
03.08.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski issued the following statement today after Speaker Boehner said he plans to bring the Senate transportation bill to the House floor: “The decision to not bring the Republicans’ five-year transportation bill up for a vote in the House is a victory for northeastern Illinois and for our nation. I fought hard for changes to the bill, and while I would have liked to have seen a much-improved House bill, the bipartisan, two-year Senate bill, which now appears to be headed to the House floor, is not perfect but is undoubtedly better. It is better for public transportation because it maintains dedicated funding for mass transit from the gas tax and does not make the CTA and other agencies ineligible for bus funding just because they also operate subways. It includes the Projects of National Significance program, from which I was able to secure $100 million for the CREATE rail modernization project in the last transportation bill and which is a potential funding source for other major projects in our area. The Senate bill also provides more funding for road projects than the House bill. It is unfortunate that the Senate bill only covers two years; I would certainly prefer a longer-term bill. But I would rather have a bipartisan two-year bill that improves our roads and mass transit than a five-year bill that badly undermines our transportation system. “What will actually happen next remains unclear. Speaker Boehner has said he plans to bring the Senate bill to a vote, while also indicating Republicans will continue to work on a bill that can pass the House. As I have said repeatedly, House Republicans should reach out to Democrats to craft a bipartisan bill. Their failure to do so starkly contrasts with the bipartisan manner in which past transportation bills have always been written. I stand ready to work with my Republican colleagues in the House to produce a robust, multi-year transportation bill to fix our roads, mass transit, bridges, and railways. Here in northeastern Illinois, which by some measures suffers from the worst traffic in America, we badly need a bill that will cut down on costly congestion and delays and boost economic growth and job creation.”
03.05.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski and state Rep. Michael Zalewski urged passage of a resolution introduced in the Illinois General Assembly by Rep. Zalewski requesting that Pulaski Road be designated as such along its entire length, including those stretches currently named Crawford Avenue. "Every March, the state of Illinois honors the heroism of Brigadier General Casimir Pulaski, who made the ultimate sacrifice in support of the American Revolution," Rep. Lipinski said. "As a proud Polish-American, I believe the entirety of Pulaski Road should bear his name, in recognition of his bravery in combat, his love of liberty, and his contribution to the founding of our country. This Pulaski Day, I urge the Illinois General Assembly to pass this resolution and accord Casimir Pulaski an honor he undoubtedly deserves." "I was proud to file House Resolution 830 to honor the legacy of General Pulaski," Rep. Zalewski said. "As an elected official of Polish descent, I believe it’s important to remember the important contributions of Poles to the United States and its citizens. General Pulaski’s bravery and heroism should be honored by all Illinois cities, towns, and villages and I look forward to presenting this resolution to the Illinois House in the coming weeks." Pulaski Road was renamed in honor of Casimir Pulaski in 1935. Yet north and south of the city of Chicago it is still known as Crawford Avenue in many areas. In 2009, Congressman Lipinski helped pass a resolution in the House of Representatives proclaiming Casimir Pulaski to be an honorary U.S. citizen posthumously, citing his heroism in fighting on the side of the American colonists against the British in the American Revolutionary War. ####
02.23.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) issued the following statement today: “Published reports now indicate that House Republican leaders have decided to abandon their plan to end the dedicated use of motor fuel taxes for mass transit in the House transportation reauthorization bill. This is a victory for everyone who rides the CTA, Metra, and Pace, as well as for drivers. Having helped to lead the bipartisan effort to force Republican leaders to maintain dedicated funding for mass transit, I’m very pleased by this decision. Ending dedicated funding would have put $450 million for local public transportation at risk at a time when the CTA, Metra, and Pace are already short of revenue and have major infrastructure needs. That’s money that keeps trains and buses running on time and helps to keep cars off our overcrowded roads. “Undoubtedly, this is a victory and a step in the right direction. But there is more that needs to be done to improve the House transportation bill, and details on the new House proposal are still sketchy. House Republicans now seem to want to pass a shorter bill. I would like the bill to be as long as possible to facilitate long term planning, but I have said that we are better off with a shorter bill if that would mean a higher level of funding per year. The proposed bill cuts funding to Illinois by $130 to $174 million per year; that is unacceptable and I will continue to fight for adequate funding. As I have said, a shorter but still multi-year bill is the easiest way to get there. I also continue to work to restore the Projects of National Significance program, which could provide funding for the CREATE rail modernization project and other major projects in Illinois. “The news today is very encouraging and I will continue to press the Republicans to make this a robust, bipartisan transportation reauthorization bill that is good for our region and good for our country. The American people don’t want partisan bickering and games, they want action that reduces costly congestion and delays for individuals and businesses and helps promote job growth in the short term and the long term. I remain ready to work with my colleagues across the aisle to achieve that goal.” Under a bipartisan agreement that dates back 30 years to President Reagan, a portion of motor fuel taxes has been dedicated to pay for investments in public transportation. Currently, 2.86 cents of the gas tax is set aside for mass transit. The House Republican bill would have directed that funding to highways, leaving transit with no guaranteed revenue source. ###
02.21.2012	Chicago, IL -- On Tuesday, United States Representatives Dan Lipinski (D-IL-3), Robert Dold (R-IL-10), and Judy Biggert (R-IL-13), CTA President Forrest Claypool, RTA Chairman John Gates, Jr., Pace Executive Director T.J. Ross, and Metra Chairman Larry Huggins discussed amendments that need to be made in order to improve the United States House of Representatives Transportation Bill. “As northeastern Illinois’ most senior member of the House Transportation Committee, I have been fighting for more than five years to pass a robust surface transportation bill that is good for our region and good for the country," Lipinski said. "Improving our transportation system should be a nonpartisan effort. Fortunately, last week we were able to delay consideration of the House majority’s partisan bill that would be harmful to our region; now we have time to fix it. In my work on the Transportation Committee and locally I have always worked to bring people together to solve problems; so I am very happy to stand together with two of my Republican colleagues to fight for changes that will make the transportation bill work for the people of northeastern Illinois. Restoring the 30-year bipartisan agreement to dedicate funding to mass transit, providing a fair tax benefit for transit riders, restoring the CTA’a eligibility for a critical bus program, and funding the Projects of National Significance program -- the source of $100 million I secured for CREATE in the last transportation bill -- are all critical changes I will continue to fight for and we stand united for.” “Transportation funding isn’t a Republican or Democrat priority, it is an American priority,” said Dold. “Today, we are united and have come together to advocate on behalf of common sense, bipartisan amendments that will improve the House transportation bill. Our economy relies on the ability to efficiently move goods, services and all the hardworking people who are traveling to and from work, we must ensure that we are improving our roads and funding mass transit. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to move these measures forward and thank Representatives Biggert and Lipinski for their hard work and efforts to protect mass transit.” “Suburban commuters and motorists, who pay millions in federal fuel taxes, deserve a transportation bill that is responsive to their needs,” said Biggert. “Getting to work every morning- whether it’s on Metra, the Eisenhower, or the Stevenson, causes enough headaches as it is. We need to work together toward a bipartisan agreement that provides steady, reliable funding so Illinois transportation managers can make the long-term investments that will keep people and commerce moving.” Background Information: Reps. Dold, Biggert, and Lipinski spoke about the importance of improving the House transportation bill by supporting amendments that would include projects of national significance, guarantee funding streams for public transportation, and Representative Hultgren’s amendment to restore transit benefits. Nadler-Lipinski-Dold Amendment Number 27- Would restore the dedicated guaranteed funding stream for public transportation programs. Would eliminate the Alternative Transportation Account, restore the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund and its 2.86 cent funding mechanism, and redirect the $40 billion appropriation in HR 7 to the Highway Trust Fund to ensure there is enough funding for both highways and transit. It would also move CMAQ, Ferries, Puerto Rico and Territorial Highways, and Research back into the Highway Trust Fund consistent with current law. Nadler-Lipinski Amendment Number 28 -Would restore the Projects of National and Regional Significance program as a competitive merit-based grant program as it was originally established in SAFETEA-LU, which has been eliminated in HR 7. Hultgren-Lipinski-Biggert-Dold Amendment Number 21- Would restore parity between transit and parking pre-tax benefits and account for inflation. ###
02.17.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted to temporarily extend the payroll tax cut for the hard-hit middle class, preserve extended unemployment benefits for Americans struggling to find work, and prevent a Medicare cut that would threaten seniors’ access to their doctors. The extension of the payroll tax cut through the end of the year prevents a tax hike of $1,000 for the typical family. The legislation also requires that money from the general fund be deposited into the Social Security Trust Fund to make up for the lost payroll tax revenue and ensure that Social Security’s finances are not harmed and seniors will continue to receive their promised benefits. "I am glad the two parties were finally able to reach a deal that avoids a tax hike on the middle class at a time of continuing high unemployment, prevents the end of extended unemployment benefits for Americans who cannot find a job despite their best efforts, and stops Medicare cuts that would have threatened seniors’ access to their doctors," Rep. Lipinski said. "Failure to take action on these matters would have hurt tens of millions of Americans. "However, I am disappointed that the two sides were only able to offset a portion of the costs. The inability to reach agreement on how to pay for this legislation is another failure and shows the need for greater bipartisanship in Washington. Having voted for the bipartisan, $2.1 trillion deficit reduction package in August and for a Balanced Budget Amendment, I believe we must act to reduce the national debt. I also believe we must be vigilant to ensure that the payroll tax cut does not form a precedent that results in any weakening of Social Security for those who rely on it. "Congress needs to stop the partisan bickering and focus on finding common ground to do what is right for the American people. From the beginning, I urged both parties to work together to quickly address the expiration of the payroll tax cut, extend emergency unemployment insurance, and preserve access to care for seniors on Medicare – and then immediately turn their attention to job creation. Instead, the talks dragged on for months, nearly blew up and resulted in a tax hike in December, and finally ended this week in a bill that – while better than the alternative – came up short in one important respect. The country is sick of the partisanship in Washington, and so am I. We can and must do better." ####
02.13.2012	On Monday, Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Robert Dold (R-IL), CTA President Forrest Claypool, Metra Executive Director/CEO Alex Clifford, RTA Executive Director Joseph Costello, Illinois Chamber of Commerce President/CEO Doug Whitley and other transportation, business, labor, and environmental leaders called on House Republican leaders to work with them to fix the transportation reauthorization bill before it comes up for a vote in the House this week. The current House Republican bill will hurt Illinois, and Chicagoland especially, by slashing funding for state roads and highways by about $650 million, putting $450 million for local public transportation at risk by taking motor-fuel tax money away from mass transit, failing to provide funding for projects of national and regional significance such as the CREATE rail modernization project, and making the CTA ineligible for an important program that last year alone provided it with $36 million for new buses and equipment. All this is being done at a time when delays for drivers in the Chicago region have increased by nearly a third in little more than a decade, and now cost them $1,568 each on average, more than anywhere else in the country. "More than five years after I brought the House Transportation Committee to Chicago to hold the first hearing on a surface transportation reauthorization bill, the good news is that we finally have a bill coming to the House floor," said Rep. Lipinski, the most senior Chicago-area member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. "The bad news is that the House Republican bill fails Chicagoland, Illinois, and our nation. Illinois roads take a big hit, losing at least $650 million. $450 million in transit funding is at risk for Metra, CTA, and Pace. The funding program for big, nationally significant projects like CREATE is eliminated. And the pay-fors include risky new drilling policies that will never pass the Senate. We need a bipartisan bill that will put people back to work, reduce traffic congestion, and create an efficient transportation system that spurs job growth." "A strong transportation and infrastructure bill is key to moving our economy forward," Rep. Dold said. "I have several concerns with the transportation bill as it stands today. While there are many bipartisan and positive ideas included, such as long-term infrastructure spending, reforms to speed up the completion time for major projects, and a provision to strengthen harbors like Waukegan Harbor, I am concerned with drilling in ANWR, the cuts to mass transit funding and the disproportionate cuts to the State of Illinois. I am optimistic that we can find common ground and strengthen this bill so that we can move forward a long-term transportation bill that helps strengthen our economy." Congress typically passes a major bill to invest in America’s roads, bridges, railroads, and mass transit every four to six years. Yet at a time of high unemployment and inadequate job growth, it has failed to pass a long-term bill since the last one expired in September 2009, leaving transportation in the lurch. "The CTA strongly opposes two provisions of the new transit bill that would significantly alter the way transit is funded," CTA President Forrest Claypool said. "The flaws in this bill don’t just affect transit riders. They negatively affect every commuter in the Chicago region." "As the head of an agency that is responsible for fiscal and budget oversight, as well as raising money to pay for public transit projects in Northeastern Illinois, I am very concerned that the House bill will make it much more expensive for the RTA to borrow money," RTA Executive Director Joseph Costello said. "If the dedicated funding stream transit agencies rely on is taken away, Moody's stated that it might be forced to downgrade the credit ratings of a number of transit agencies. If this occurs, it will cost transit agencies hundreds of millions of dollars a year in interest." "I’m encouraged that Congress is finally moving forward with a multi-year transportation spending plan, and there are good reforms in what the House and Senate are discussing," said Illinois Chamber of Commerce President & CEO Doug Whitley. "However, the House version would put hundreds of millions of dollars for transit in real peril, while drastically reducing funding for Illinois highways. We must get serious about investing in our roads, bridges, transit and rail systems. Failure to do so will weaken businesses and the economy here in the transportation hub of America." Under a bipartisan agreement that dates back 30 years to President Reagan, a portion of motor fuel taxes has been dedicated to pay for investments in public transportation. But the House Republican bill would end that guaranteed revenue source. As a result, mass transit could suffer significant cuts, badly hurting train and bus riders in Illinois. The bill also eliminates funding for the Projects of National and Regional Significance program, which especially impacts the Chicago region because there are numerous major projects in need of funding here in America’s transportation hub. In the last reauthorization bill, Rep. Lipinski was able to secure $100 million for the ongoing CREATE rail modernization project, which is critical for local jobs, through this program. A provision in the bill that Rep. Lipinski attempted to remove in committee would force the CTA to choose between losing $36 million a year for buses and equipment or splitting into two separate agencies, one for rail and one for bus, which would raise costs for taxpayers through increased administrative costs. In addition, funding for Amtrak would be cut by 25 percent under the bill. "The GOP House bill is an abomination for mass transit in Chicago and across the nation," said Javier Perez, Jr., international vice president of the Amalgamated Transit Union. "It’s clear House Republican leaders don’t understand the needs of the thousands of working families who rely on safe, reliable, affordable public transportation each day." "America's addiction to oil imposes mounting costs to our environment, economy, national security and health," said Environment Illinois Director Max Muller. "It doesn’t have to be this way – we can invest in?clean, efficient travel choices such as public transit that will?move our nation away from oil and toward a brighter, healthier future. We need a smarter, cleaner transportation future, not this destructive proposal which reads like Big Oil's Wish List. The House of Representatives should overhaul this bill." "The bill needs to address the movement of freight as a critical component of our national transportation system," said Will County Center for Economic Development President John Greuling. "It is key to our global competitiveness."
02.10.2012	Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) issued the following statement today on President Obama’s failure to provide an exception for religiously affiliated institutions to the new requirement that employers provide insurance coverage for birth control and abortion-inducing drugs. The rule is part of the 2010 health care law, which Rep. Lipinski voted against. "I am enormously disappointed by today’s announcement. All the facts indicate that the ‘new’ mandate is the same as the ‘old’ mandate. New words, same policy. "Our understanding of the new policy is now limited to a Fact Sheet put out by the White House. This document says ‘Religious organizations will not have to provide contraceptive coverage or refer their employees to organizations that provide contraception.’ But the health care law says that all employers must provide health insurance for their employees or pay a penalty. And according to the White House these same insurance plans that employers must provide ‘will be required to provide contraception coverage to these women free of charge.’ So religious organizations have to provide health care coverage from insurance companies that are required to provide abortion drugs, sterilization, and contraception. What changed? This is the same policy. "We need a rule that protects religious liberty by allowing employers to provide health insurance coverage that does not include abortion drugs and other services that violate their conscience and religious doctrine. Instead we got a so-called compromise that is no compromise at all and provides no options for those with profound religious and moral objections to providing these services. To say that the insurer and not the employer is required to provide the coverage is a fiction. There is no accommodation for religious liberty. The rule remains coercive and still violates the long-standing tradition of protection for conscience rights in federal law." ####
02.03.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted to pass the long-term Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization that he helped write to create jobs, save money, and reduce air traffic delays. The bill includes language authored by Rep. Lipinski to expedite the rollout of the NextGen satellite navigation system, which will reduce delays by an estimated 35 percent, save $23 billion, and prevent pollution and noise, both locally and across the nation. It also includes legislation Rep. Lipinski wrote to develop alternative forms of fuel for aircraft to help reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and to promote recycling at airports, which are huge generators of waste. The last long-term reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration expired in 2007. Since then, Congressman Lipinski has been pushing his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together in a bipartisan fashion to reauthorize the FAA. “Finally, after a five-year delay, we have a long-term reauthorization of the FAA,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It’s about time. This bill is critically important to the Chicago region, which depends on Midway and O’Hare airports for $45 billion in economic activity and 540,000 jobs. It will also provide grants for which smaller airports can compete, such as Lewis University Airport, which is upgrading its runways and planning for increased utilization to attract new companies, jobs, and economic growth. Aviation delays already cost an estimated $9.4 billion annually, and with the number of passengers expected to increase to 1 billion in less than a decade, we needed this bill to expand the system’s capacity. Everyone in northeastern Illinois knows we need to cut down on the delays that plague our airports. This bill is absolutely essential to achieving that goal.” The FAA oversees the planning of the national airport system and provides funding for airport improvements, employs 35,000 air traffic controllers and technicians to guide America’s 50,000 daily flights, and is responsible for regulating the aviation system and certifying America’s pilots, mechanics, and aircraft. The benefits of NextGen for northeastern Illinois and the country as a whole are many. By replacing the current outdated radar-based navigation system with GPS and other advanced technology, NextGen will help aircraft to fly shorter routes and reduce descent times. This will save about 1.4 billion gallons of fuel through 2018 along with 14 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions, and result in less noise for those living near airports. At the same time, more precise routes and descents, along with improved communications through NextGen, will reduce frustrating delays for passengers and businesses and expand the capacity of our airports in the Chicago area and around the country. Total savings by 2018 for airlines, the public, and the FAA are estimated at $23 billion. Rep. Lipinski’s NextGen amendment requires the FAA to develop a plan for a public-private partnership to expedite the equipping of aircraft with NextGen technology. While federal investments have led to advances, much more work is needed to develop commercially viable forms of aviation fuel that are environmentally friendly and move us away from dependence on foreign oil. Rep. Lipinski’s amendment requires the FAA to continue working with NASA to develop an unleaded fuel for piston-engine aircraft. Almost four decades after unleaded gasoline for automobiles was first introduced, it is time to get rid of lead in aviation fuel. Language he wrote also requires the FAA to work with the private sector, academia, and other government agencies to develop jet fuels from clean alternative sources such as biomass and hydrogen. U.S. airports generate an estimated 7.5 million pounds of trash every day – as much or more than a mid-size city – yet recent estimates indicate only a fraction is recycled. To increase recycling at airports, Rep. Lipinski authored an amendment that requires airports to study the feasibility and potential cost savings of increasing their recycling whenever they update their master plans. “This is what the American people want to see: Congress working to get things done that boost job creation and competitiveness and fix the problems we face,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It took far, far too long to pass this bill. But now that we have, we need to build on this momentum, end the gridlock in Washington, and focus on doing what is right for the country.”
02.03.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) strongly objected to the House Republican transportation bill, which would jeopardize badly needed funding for Chicago-area mass transit by ending funding for public transportation from motor fuel taxes. “The CTA, Metra, and Pace provide absolutely vital transportation for our region,” Rep. Lipinski said. “They connect people with jobs. They cut down on congestion on our already overcrowded roads. Public transportation needs more investment, not less. Among other things, the House Republican bill would force the CTA to choose between losing tens of millions of dollars in federal funding annually or splitting into two agencies, one for rail and one for bus, which would reduce efficiency and raise costs for taxpayers. That is exactly the sort of irrational policymaking that the American people are tired of. What’s more, this bill undermines the bipartisan agreement that has helped strengthen transit for the American people over many years. Motor fuel taxes have been funding mass transit for three decades under a bipartisan agreement that dates back to the Reagan presidency. Now, House Republicans want to do away with that and stop any fuel taxes from being used to fund mass transit. So where is the money going to come from? And how can we be certain that we’ll be able to make the investment in mass transit that we need going forward? Turning our backs on the bipartisan consensus that has helped make public transportation accessible for countless Americans is a bad idea, plain and simple.” During last week’s committee markup of the transportation bill, Rep. Lipinski offered an amendment to provide additional funding for Chicago-area mass transit by making comprehensive rebuilding of transit lines eligible for grants under the government’s New Starts program. Unfortunately, the amendment was not adopted by the committee. Rep. Lipinski also co-authored an amendment to eliminate language in the bill that would force the CTA to choose between losing $36 million a year or splitting into two separate agencies, one for rail and one for bus, which would raise costs for taxpayers.
02.02.2012	On Friday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted against the House Republicans' ill-conceived and highly partisan surface transportation reauthorization bill, which cuts transportation funding for Illinois, slashes funding for public transit, and threatens safety and the environment. "I've been working for years to pass a robust, multi-year transportation reauthorization that creates jobs in both the short term and the long term by fixing our highways, mass transit, bridges, and railways and reducing congestion and delays that cost our country billions of dollars," Rep. Lipinski said. "But this bill is not about investing in infrastructure and doing what is right for the American people, it's about advancing a partisan agenda. It is bad for northeastern Illinois, and it has no chance of passing the Senate. The fact that the Republicans presented us with an 800-page bill just days before today's committee markup and without giving Democrats any opportunity to provide input shows just how bad things have gotten in Washington. While I was able to get some changes made to improve the bill during the 18-hour markup, it was not possible to make the critical changes needed in this massive bill to make it work for my constituents, the people of Illinois, and the nation. In its history, this committee has never produced a surface transportation bill in this manner. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee took a very different approach and the result was a bill that received unanimous bipartisan support in committee. House Republicans should learn from that." The Republican legislation would slash highway and transit funding for Illinois by hundreds of millions of dollars between now and 2016. It significantly reduces funding for rail programs, including cutting Amtrak by $308 million. And it cuts a funding program for projects of national significance such as the CREATE rail modernization program, which is reducing congestion in northeastern Illinois. "We need a transportation bill that is equal to the challenges we face and reflects the input of both parties," Rep. Lipinski said. "Instead, we got a bill that fails to do what needs to be done, and embodies a narrow, partisan agenda. The surface transportation reauthorization bill is already more than two years overdue. It is especially important for the Chicago region that we get this right. We are America's transportation hub, and for the sake of our economy and job creation, we need a good bill. It's time to work together to produce legislation that we can all agree on and pass it as soon as possible." ####
02.01.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) urged his colleagues to pass the long-term Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization that he helped write to create jobs, save money, and reduce air traffic delays. The bill includes language authored by Rep. Lipinski to expedite the rollout of the NextGen satellite navigation system, which will reduce delays by an estimated 35 percent, save $23 billion, and prevent pollution and noise, both locally and across the nation. It also includes legislation Rep. Lipinski wrote to develop alternative forms of fuel for aircraft to help reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and to promote recycling at airports, which are huge generators of waste. "After a five-year delay, a long-term reauthorization of the FAA is now within reach," Rep. Lipinski said. "Passage of this measure is of critical importance to the Chicago region, which depends on Midway and O’Hare airports for $45 billion in economic activity and 540,000 jobs. It will also provide grants for which smaller airports can compete, such as Lewis University Airport, which is upgrading its runways and planning for increased utilization to attract new companies, jobs, and economic growth. Aviation delays already cost an estimated $9.4 billion annually, and with the number of passengers expected to increase to 1 billion in less than a decade, they will only get worse unless action is taken. Everyone in northeastern Illinois knows we need to cut down on the delays that plague our airports. This bill is absolutely essential to achieving that goal." The FAA oversees the planning of the national airport system and provides funding for airport improvements, employs 35,000 air traffic controllers and technicians to guide America’s 50,000 daily flights, and is responsible for regulating the aviation system and certifying America’s pilots, mechanics, and aircraft. The last long-term reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration expired in 2007. Since then, Congressman Lipinski has been pushing to reauthorize the FAA, and voted Tuesday to go to conference to reconcile the differences between the reauthorizations passed by the House and Senate. An agreement was reached last night. The benefits of NextGen for northeastern Illinois and the country as a whole are many. By replacing the current outdated radar-based navigation system with GPS and other advanced technology, NextGen will help aircraft to fly shorter routes and reduce descent times. This will save about 1.4 billion gallons of fuel through 2018 along with 14 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions, and result in less noise for those living near airports. At the same time, more precise routes and descents, along with improved communications through NextGen, will reduce frustrating delays for passengers and businesses and expand the capacity of our airports in the Chicago area and around the country. Total savings by 2018 for airlines, the public, and the FAA are estimated at $23 billion. Rep. Lipinski’s NextGen amendment requires the FAA to develop a plan for a public-private partnership to expedite the equipping of aircraft with NextGen technology. While federal investments have led to advances, much more work is needed to develop commercially viable forms of aviation fuel that are environmentally friendly and move us away from dependence on foreign oil. Rep. Lipinski’s amendment requires the FAA to continue working with NASA to develop an unleaded fuel for piston-engine aircraft. Almost four decades after unleaded gasoline for automobiles was first introduced, it is time to get rid of lead in aviation fuel. Language he wrote also requires the FAA to work with the private sector, academia, and other government agencies to develop jet fuels from clean alternative sources such as biomass and hydrogen. U.S. airports generate an estimated 7.5 million pounds of trash every day – as much or more than a mid-size city – yet recent estimates indicate only a fraction is recycled. To increase recycling at airports, Rep. Lipinski authored an amendment that requires airports to study the feasibility and potential cost savings of increasing their recycling whenever they update their master plans. "For the sake of our economy and jobs, both locally and nationally, we need to pass the FAA reauthorization," Rep. Lipinski said. "And for the sake of our environment, health, and national security, it should include efforts to decrease harmful emissions, waste, and dependence on foreign oil." ####
02.01.2012	On Wednesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted to repeal a portion of the health care law known as the CLASS Act, which experts agree is financially unsound and would add significantly to the national debt over the long term. Rep. Lipinski was the first Democrat to cosponsor the bill to repeal CLASS – the Fiscal Responsibility and Retirement Security Act, H.R. 1173. "The simple reality is that the CLASS program cannot be made to work," Congressman Lipinski said. "The only option in the context of today’s budget difficulties is to end the program now and prevent taxpayers from having to pay for a massive bailout later on. Unfortunately, the debate on the House floor today simply rehashed partisan talking points that get us nowhere. It was yet another example of why Congress is so unpopular. Given that everyone agrees this program will not work, we should stop the pointless quarreling and instead focus on finding a way to create a self-sustaining program to help provide affordable long-term care. The American people want to see Congress focus on solutions, not perpetuate conflicts that only produce gridlock."? The Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Act created a well-intentioned but fatally flawed long-term care insurance program. Though the program was required by law to pay for itself, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the CLASS Act would add at least tens of billions of dollars to the federal deficit every decade after 20 years. The Chief Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services found it was primed to enter an "insurance death spiral," with too many sick individuals and too few healthy individuals paying premiums, resulting in expenditures that vastly exceed revenues. Though Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius conceded that the program was "totally unsustainable" last year and announced in October it would not be implemented, the CLASS Act remains in law. To ensure it does not move forward and cost taxpayers countless billions of dollars, it must be repealed. "Going forward, I will continue working to make much-needed changes to the health care law to provide the reform American families need without adding to the national debt," Rep. Lipinski said. "That includes supporting efforts to find fiscally sustainable methods for addressing the unquestionable need for affordable long-term care. There is no doubt that long-term care can be a crushing burden for seniors and middle-class families. Finding an effective solution will require bipartisanship and a willingness by both sides to work together rather than seek ways to score political points." As part of his commitment to help fix the numerous problems with the health care law, Rep. Lipinski previously voted to eliminate an expensive and burdensome tax-reporting requirement for small businesses that was part of the law. ####
01.30.2012	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) has introduced H. Res. 523 honoring the outstanding work of Catholic schools and celebrating Catholic Schools Week, which this year runs from Jan. 29 to Feb. 5. The resolution expresses support for “the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States” and “the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the nation.” It recognizes that Catholic schools produce academically successful students, foster a commitment to service, family, and community, and accept students from all faiths and backgrounds. This is the sixth year in a row that Congressman Lipinski has introduced such a resolution. Over the weekend, Congressman Lipinski marked Catholic Schools Week with visits to St. Linus School in Oak Lawn – which he also congratulated on receiving the prestigious Blue Ribbon award – as well as St. Symphorosa School in the Clearing neighborhood of Chicago, his alma mater. On Monday, he visited St. Michael School in Orland Park and Cardinal Bernardin School in Orland Hills. Today, he will speak to students at Everest Academy in Lemont and St. Andrew School in Romeoville. “As a proud graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep, I look forward to highlighting the achievements of America’s Catholic schools every year during Catholic Schools Week,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The Chicago Archdiocese and the Joliet Archdiocese run two of the best school systems in the country. Visiting the students, teachers, and administrators at St. Linus, St. Symphorosa, St. Michael, Cardinal Bernardin, Everest Academy, and St. Andrew this week reminds me of how lucky we are to have so many great Catholic schools in our communities. Along with countless other Catholic schools, they embody this year’s theme for Catholic Schools Week: ‘Faith. Academics. Service.’ “America’s Catholic schools produce graduates that have the skills and strength of character needed by our businesses, governments, and communities. In 2009, Catholic school students contributed about half a million hours of service to their communities and parishes. Catholic school students, on average, surpass other students in math, science, and reading achievement, and the graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent, with 85 percent of graduates going on to four-year colleges. Today, almost fifteen percent of students in Catholic schools are not Catholic, and over the past 30 years, the percentage of minority students enrolled in Catholic schools has more than doubled. In Chicagoland, it is estimated that Catholic schools save taxpayers over $1 billion annually by lowering the number of students in overburdened public schools.” “In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we pay a special tribute to countless dedicated teachers and administrators. Many of my favorite memories are of teachers, including many nuns, who taught me the values of faith and service. Throughout the United States, millions of others have similar memories. Catholic Schools Week, which begins on the last Sunday in January, has been an annual event since 1974. (January 30, 2012) ####
01.24.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union address: “I agree that what is at stake today is not Democratic values or Republican values, but American values and the future of the middle class. But just as one speech isn’t going to restore opportunity for the middle class, we certainly cannot change things if we do not work together. We need both parties, both chambers, and the White House to start working for the middle class and for good jobs – not bailouts for Wall Street and trade deals that lead to more outsourcing and undermine the middle class yet again. Like the American people, I want to see hard work and playing by the rules rewarded, and everyone held responsible for their actions. Having voted against the Wall Street bailout all three times, I believe ‘no bailouts, no handouts, and no copouts’ should be a principle, and not just a slogan. “We can start to do right by the middle class by passing the overdue transportation reauthorization bill to invest in critical infrastructure projects that will create jobs and reduce congestion, as my colleague from across the aisle Rep. Randy Hultgren and I both said today. With unemployment still far too high, it is absurd that Washington has failed to do this in the two-plus years since the last bill expired, and it is a shame the President did not seize the chance tonight to push for passage of a robust, multi-year reauthorization to fix our roads, bridges, mass transit, and rail system. We can also pass legislation to combat unfair trade by China, get serious about bringing back American manufacturing, and make sure everyone learns the skills they need to compete in the economy of today and tomorrow. All of those things are part of the five-point Jobs Plan I released last year. The message that we need to act to preserve the American dream is one I welcome. Now Washington needs to finally start acting for – not just talking about – the middle class.” (January 24, 2012) ###
01.24.2012	Today, Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL) issued the following joint statement ahead of the President’s State of the Union address, at which they will be sitting together, continuing the tradition of bipartisan seating begun last year in the wake of the shooting in Tucson that killed six and wounded 14, including Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. “At tonight’s State of the Union, we hope that the President seizes on the opportunity to push for passage of a robust, multi-year transportation reauthorization bill. In a time of continued high unemployment, this bill – which is critical to our state and our nation – is now more than two years overdue, feeding Americans’ frustration with Washington. We understand that investing in critical infrastructure projects to improve our ailing transportation system will create jobs in Illinois and across the country, both in the near-term and in the long-term by reducing congestion and increasing efficiency for workers and for businesses. The President should call for a transportation reauthorization that is responsibly and fully funded, and recognizes the deep need to improve our roads, highways, bridges, public transit and rail system. This should be a bipartisan issue that unites the House, the Senate, and the White House, and we believe that it can be. Recently, after a five-year delay, a compromise was announced that finally paves the way for passage of a multi-year Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. It’s time to build on that breakthrough and pass a robust, multi-year surface transportation bill.” (January 24, 2012) ####
01.23.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement in response to the news that Sen. Mark Kirk suffered a stroke: “I’m praying Sen. Kirk makes a full recovery and is able to return to serving the people of Illinois and the nation soon. It’s a shock to think of anyone as active and energetic as Mark suffering a stroke, and my heart goes out to his family and friends. It was a tremendous relief to hear that his doctors believe the chances are very good that he will be able to return to his duties, and I truly hope that the physical aspect of his recovery is complete as well. The weeks ahead will surely hold many challenges, but if there is anyone who can be counted on to meet them, it is Mark. Having had the pleasure of working across the aisle with Sen. Kirk on issues such as cleaning up the Great Lakes, improving transportation in northeastern Illinois, and national security, I am looking forward to continuing to work with him in the future.” ####
01.20.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) issued the following statement condemning the Obama administration’s refusal to provide a reasonable exception for religious organizations to a new rule requiring insurance coverage of contraception and abortion-inducing drugs. The rule, which violates the conscience rights of countless individuals, implements a provision in the health care law passed in 2010, which Congressman Lipinski voted against. "This decision violates the long-standing tradition of protection for conscience rights in federal law, constitutes mandated coverage of abortion, and forces unbearable choices for those who are pro-life. The only exemption the rule provides is so narrow that it would not extend beyond church ministers and administrators, leaving out countless religiously affiliated employers such as Catholic schools, hospitals, and charitable organizations. Under the very narrow definition of a religious institution in this rule, even Jesus would not receive an exemption because his ministry involved more than just religious instruction and he did not only minister to those of his faith. "As a result of this rule, all employers and health insurance plans will be required to cover – at no charge to the individual – existing drugs that terminate a pregnancy after conception. Requiring all employers to provide abortifacient drugs to their employees is an unwarranted and unjustifiable attack on freedom of conscience, that most fundamental of American values. To demand a reasonable exception to this rule is not to take anything away from anyone – it is to guarantee the freedom to live in accordance with one’s beliefs about life and its intrinsic value. Moreover, while it has long been clear that the President’s executive order was unfortunately insufficient to prevent the health care law’s departure from the status quo with regard to abortion, this rule violates the spirit of that order and furnishes yet another argument against the law itself."
01.18.2012	Today, in accordance with the bipartisan Budget Control Act passed in August, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted to prevent a government default and urged his colleagues to work together to do what the supercommittee should have done and provide the deficit reduction the American people need. “From the beginning of the debate over the debt ceiling, I said that both parties needed to come together to avoid a devastating default and responsibly reduce the deficit while preserving essential investments for the middle class,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The final, bipartisan compromise that passed Congress in August met these requirements. It avoided a default, ensured a minimum of $2.1 trillion in deficit reduction, and charged the so-called supercommittee with providing further deficit reduction. I voted for it on that basis. Unfortunately, in the end, the supercommittee failed to reach an agreement and dissolved amid partisanship and finger-pointing. That failure represented a missed opportunity of historic proportions. It is one reason why the public is disgusted with Washington. I share that disgust. Bipartisan cooperation is indispensible to getting things done for the good of our country. Without it, we will only suffer more gridlock. Today’s vote was largely symbolic because we know this measure almost certainly will not pass the Senate, and even if it did, the President would veto it. But Washington should listen closely to what the American people are saying. They want to see both parties put aside their differences and act in the best interest of the country. That is why I signed the bipartisan letter, along with 100 of my House colleagues, calling for the $4 trillion in deficit reduction that experts agree we need for a strong economy. It’s time to stop the bickering and the symbolic votes and get down to the real work of cutting the deficit and promoting job creation.” (January 18, 2012) ####
01.18.2012	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) applauded the State Department’s decision to impose sanctions against three foreign companies, including one from China, that have done business with Iran’s energy sector in violation of U.S. sanctions intended to isolate Iran and compel it to abandon its plans to develop a nuclear weapon. The decision to impose sanctions comes in the wake of Congressman Lipinski’s letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in October, co-signed by 38 other members of the House of Representatives, which urged a broader use of available sanctions against foreign companies that invest in Iran’s energy sector. “The sanctions announced last week are a step in the right direction, but they should be just the beginning,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Iran’s energy sector is the lifeblood of its economy, and too many foreign companies have ignored calls from the United States and the international community to cease investment in Iran. We need to act to force the current regime to reconsider its determination to acquire nuclear weapons before it is too late. A nuclear-armed Iran would be a disaster for the Middle East and our national security.” The sanctions will prevent the three firms from receiving U.S. export licenses, U.S. Export Import Bank financing, or loans over $10 million from American financial institutions. However, other companies continue to remain untouched by United States or international sanctions. “It is no secret that many of the companies leading investment in Iran are based in China,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Our government should continue to investigate the activities of those firms and impose sanctions in accordance with U.S. law whenever required.” (January 18, 2012) ####
12.22.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement on the decision by House Republicans to support the Senate’s short-term extension of the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance and move forward with negotiating a longer-term extension. The Senate bill also prevents a Medicare cut that would threaten seniors’ access to their doctors. “House Republicans made the right decision to end the standoff and prevent the middle class from being hit by a tax increase and the loss of unemployment benefits, as well as prevent seniors from losing access to their doctors,” Rep. Lipinski said. “As I said before, I believe Congress should have been able to agree on a full-year deal to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance and prevent a harmful cut to Medicare. But with the Senate having failed to produce such a bill and refusing to return to Washington, its short-term extension was the only way to avoid a tax hike and a drastic reduction in unemployment insurance at a time when the middle class is still suffering. What matters now is that both the House and Senate work together to quickly finalize a longer-term deal. We cannot afford more political posturing on this issue that takes up valuable time and prevents Washington from focusing on promoting job creation and dealing with the many issues still on its agenda. Among other things, Congress should do everything possible to pass the overdue transportation bill, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs in the short term and build infrastructure projects that cut down on congestion, enhance safety, and boost long-term economic efficiency and growth. “Congress has got to stop bickering and kicking the can down the road on important matters as Americans continue to suffer. As I told those who attended my town hall meeting last month, I am as fed up with Congress as they are. The House is getting little done for the American people and the Senate has largely ceased to function. But I will continue to fight as I always have for the middle-class workers and retirees of the Third District and the nation.” ###
12.20.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted against the House Republican motion to go to conference with the Senate on H.R. 3630 because it could lead to a congressional standoff that would result in increased middle-class taxes and an expiration of unemployment benefits, as well as a steep Medicare cut that would cause many seniors to lose access to their doctors. The motion requests a conference with the Senate on the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011, H.R. 3630, with no opportunity to vote on the Senate’s two-month extension of the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits, which also prevents the Medicare cut. Though he would strongly prefer to see a long-term extension of these measures important to the middle class, Rep. Lipinski believes that given the Senate’s current refusal to return to work in Washington, the House should vote to pass the Senate’s two-month bill. “I cast this vote because I do not want to risk an increase in taxes, a loss of seniors’ access to their doctors, and the end of unemployment benefits for those hit hard by the economy,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Senate bill is better than nothing, and right now we have no other alternative if the Senate will not return. But I am thoroughly disappointed that the Senate left town without reaching an agreement to extend these measures for a longer term. No one wants to be home with their family preparing for Christmas more than I do, but that is no reason for the Senate to have left town early Saturday with only a two-month extension passed. All that a two-month bill does is prolong the debate on this issue for two more months. Congress will be right back where it started when it returns to session in January. We will be deep in the Republican nominating process and closer to the election and we will waste valuable time on a matter that should already have been addressed. As a result, it will be that much harder for Congress to take action to promote job creation and to address such matters as the long-delayed transportation bill, the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization, and other issues critical to middle-class Americans. “Congress has got to stop bickering and kicking the can down the road on important matters as Americans continue to suffer. As I told those who attended my town hall meeting last month, I am as fed up with Congress as they are. The House is getting little done for the American people and the Senate has largely ceased to function. But I will continue to fight as I always have for the middle-class workers and retirees of the Third District and the nation.” (December 20, 2011) ####
12.20.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) made the following statement on the House floor congratulating the Saint Xavier University Cougars on winning the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics Football National Championship and bringing Saint Xavier its first-ever National Championship in any sport. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Saint Xavier University Cougars on winning the NAIA Football National Championship on Saturday. “It was another thrilling game, and a fitting way for Saint Xavier to bring home its first National Championship in any sport. Beating the defending champion Carroll College Fighting Saints 24-20 on a goal-line stand in the final minutes made the victory even sweeter. “From the freshmen to the seniors, from the top-ranked offense to the clutch defense to the special teams – everyone played a part in this victory and the Cougars’ amazing season. “This was the first time since 1913 that a college football team from Chicago has won a national championship. And the Cougars did it with a lot of homegrown talent. Chicago, Lemont, Joliet, Tinley Park, Oak Lawn, Palos Heights, Park Ridge, Rockford, Frankfort – these and many other towns are well represented on this historic team. “The players, Coach Mike Feminis and his staff, Saint Xavier, the city of Chicago, and the state of Illinois should all be proud. Congratulations to the Cougars.” Rep. Lipinski is proud to have Saint Xavier University’s Mount Greenwood campus in his Third Congressional District. (December 20, 2011) ####
12.16.2011	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted today for the bipartisan agreement that sets the federal government’s spending for the remainder of fiscal year 2012. The bill, H.R. 2055, avoids a government shutdown, preserves investments in programs that are essential for the American middle class, and adheres to the bipartisan deficit-reduction compromise passed by Congress in August. H.R. 2055 passed the House 296-121 and now goes to the Senate. "While Congress has once again waited until the last minute to fulfill its duty and establish spending levels for the federal government, I am glad that this deal respects the limits set in the deficit-reduction act and that it preserves investments critical for job creation and a strong middle class," Rep Lipinski said. "Certainly the final bill was not perfect. But a willingness to accept a reasonable compromise is essential if we are to keep moving forward and to find solutions to the many problems we confront. While partisanship has brought Washington to the brink on many occasions this year, I have continued to urge my colleagues to put aside their differences and seek common ground. I voted for the bipartisan budget deal that prevented a government shutdown in April, as well as the short-term extensions that enabled us to reach that compromise. Following that, I voted for the Budget Control Act to begin the process of bringing the national debt down to sustainable levels. I was also one of the 100 House members who signed a bipartisan letter in October in support of a comprehensive, $4 trillion deficit-reduction plan that helps assure a bright economic future for the American people. With my vote today, I continue my efforts to chart a sustainable fiscal course for our government while promoting job creation for the middle class through my five-point Jobs Plan." ####
12.15.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski and Congresswoman Nita Lowey led 66 members of the House of Representatives in sending a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to posthumously confer a Presidential Medal of Freedom on Polish-American Dr. Jan Karski. As a member of the Polish Underground operating in occupied Poland during World War II, Dr. Karski, who was Catholic, took extraordinary personal risks in order to investigate firsthand the atrocities being committed by the Nazis against European Jews. Upon returning from the front, he relayed what he had seen to Allied leaders in an attempt to mobilize an effort to stop the Nazis’ crimes against humanity. Unfortunately, his pleas fell mostly on deaf ears. "Dr. Karski risked his life in order to personally witness the conditions inside the Warsaw Ghetto and at the Nazi Izbica transit camp, and then personally pleaded for action with Allied leaders," Congressman Lipinski said. "Had his pleas been heeded, countless lives might have been saved. His actions were exemplary, demonstrating the moral clarity and courage that the times demanded. There is no doubt he deserves a Presidential Medal of Freedom." Dr. Karski urged action in meetings with President Franklin Roosevelt, British Foreign Minister Anthony Eden, and others, but despite his best efforts achieved little progress in mobilizing a relief effort. In a further effort to spark action, he then published Story of a Secret State – his firsthand account of the Nazi’s actions in Poland. When the war ended, Dr. Karski immigrated to the United States, where he earned a Ph.D. from Georgetown University and educated generations of leaders as a professor at Georgetown for nearly 40 years before his death in 2000. While he was still alive, Dr. Karski received recognition for his actions from countries, organizations, and universities throughout the world. Among other honors, he was awarded honorary citizenship by Israel and Poland’s highest civilian award and premier military decoration. "Dr. Karski recognized the danger of indifference and the moral necessity of action to stop the persecution of an entire people and the oppression of his native country," Congressman Lipinski said. "He waged a heroic individual battle against the Holocaust and the occupation of Poland. Though his efforts were thwarted, his actions are inspiring, unforgettable, and worthy of the highest honor." The Presidential Medal of Freedom is America’s highest civilian honor. Past recipients include Pope John Paul II, Martin Luther King Jr., Rachel Carson, Jimmy Stewart, Neil Armstrong, Nelson Mandela, and many others. (December 15, 2011) ####
12.14.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) helped pass in the House the long-term reauthorization of the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer programs, which help small businesses to conduct research and development that leads to new technologies, innovative products, and jobs. The reauthorization includes an amendment authored by Rep. Lipinski that establishes a program to assist academic and national laboratory researchers in turning their research findings into successful businesses. “One of the pillars of my five-point jobs plan is investing in cutting-edge research that leads to innovative new products and jobs,” Rep. Lipinski said. “That’s why I’m very proud to have helped finally pass a long-term reauthorization of the SBIR/STTR programs and to have succeeded in including the ‘proof of concept’ program in the legislation. This legislation is about unleashing the job-creating potential of small businesses and entrepreneurs and making sure America remains the world’s high-tech leader. “The ‘proof of concept’ program will establish grants of up to $100,000 for individual researchers to help them prove that their innovative research has a commercial application and can form the basis for a viable, job-creating business. This investment can spell the difference between failure and success, or between a great idea that sits on the drawing board and one that leads to a profitable business. This program builds on the example of a number of other similar programs, including one at the University of Virginia that has generated a 5:1 return on investment. It’s critical that we do everything we can to help turn our federal investment in research into economic growth and jobs.” Through his work on the Science, Space, and Technology and Small Business Committees, Rep. Lipinski has been a leader in the effort to reauthorize the SBIR and STTR programs. The programs provide awards for small businesses through a highly competitive program to enable them to carry out promising research and development. The reauthorization allows for greater participation from small businesses with venture capital support, raises award levels for the first time since 1982, and continues the programs for six years. SBIR success stories include telecommunications giant Qualcomm, which has grown from 35 to 17,500 employees; internet security provider Symantec, which has grown to more than 17,000 employees since SBIR’s investment; digital communications company ViaSat, now with 750 employees; and semiconductor and advanced packaging company ATMI, now with 800 employees. The SBIR/STTR reauthorization language provides $5 million for Rep. Lipinski’s pilot program. The National Institutes of Health would be authorized to award competitive grants of up to $1 million to universities and other research institutions, which in turn will award grants to researchers. Grants could pay for prototype development, market research, developing an intellectual property strategy, and other commercial opportunity investigation work. A review board of experts at each university or institution will provide oversight and the Director of NIH will report back to Congress on the program’s results. “I continue to work to promote both short-term and long-term job growth in accordance with my jobs plan,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I urge small businesses to take advantage of the SBIR/STTR programs and help America create the good jobs we need. (December 14, 2011) ####
12.08.2011	As the Council on Competitiveness released its recommendations today for promoting the growth of American manufacturing, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) urged Congress to act on his National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, to help American manufacturers succeed in the global economy and create jobs at home. “The Council on Competitiveness’s report ‘Make: An American Manufacturing Movement’ represents a call for action by Washington,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Many of the solutions it offers are clearly deserving of strong support as they would help boost domestic manufacturing and get Americans back to work. These include increasing the use of countervailing duties to combat illegal trade practices by foreign countries, improving STEM education, focusing R&D investment on manufacturing challenges, and increasing public-private partnerships to boost investment in transportation and other infrastructure. Other worthwhile recommendations are developing a network of advanced manufacturing clusters, creating 21st Century manufacturing apprenticeship programs, increasing use of high-powered computer modeling by industry, and speeding commercial application of federally funded research. Passage of the National Manufacturing Strategy Act would help ensure the report receives the serious attention it deserves and that Washington actually takes action to implement the policies needed to fuel the growth of U.S. manufacturing and job creation.” Rep. Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act is designed to forge broad, bipartisan support for an actionable plan to revitalize American manufacturing. The bill passed the House last year 379-38 and the current version, H.R. 1366, has again drawn strong bipartisan support. H.R. 1366 requires the establishment of a Manufacturing Strategy Board consisting of representatives from the public and private sectors and labor. Every four years, the board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the manufacturing sector covering matters ranging from financing to trade to the defense industrial base. Based on this analysis and ample public input, the board will develop a strategy that includes specific recommendations to the President, Congress, and industry for bolstering American manufacturing. To make sure we stay the course, the board will assess the implementation of its recommendations annually, and the GAO will conduct a separate review. “Continued offshoring not only eliminates existing American jobs, it threatens our ability to innovate and develop the next generation of high-tech products, as well as to independently provide for our own national security,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We need to start reversing this trend immediately if we are going to remain the world’s economic leader and create the roughly 12.2 million jobs we need to return to prerecession employment levels. I urge my colleagues to closely examine the report by the Council on Competitiveness and to support the National Manufacturing Strategy Act.” (December 8, 2011) ####
12.04.2011	On Sunday, the Chicago Sun-Times published the following Op-Ed by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) detailing the challenges facing U.S. manufacturing and the steps we must take to address them. Chicago Sun-Times December 4, 2011 By Congressman Dan Lipinski The last 10 years were indeed a “lost decade” for manufacturing employment in the Chicago region, as the Sun-Times reported last Sunday. But as the Sun-Times also noted, the country as a whole fared no better, shedding one-third of all factory jobs. A national crisis demands a national response. Washington should not leave the states to fight among themselves for a slice of an ever-shrinking pie. I am a strong believer in free markets, but the global economy in which American manufacturers compete is not a level playing field. Their foreign competitors often benefit from illegal trade practices and massive government intervention that gives them an unfair advantage. Washington needs to fight such anti-competitive practices while also recognizing that government can play a constructive role in promoting American manufacturing’s success within a free-market system. It can start by passing the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, H.R. 639, to make it easier to impose tariffs to combat China’s currency manipulation, which has cost America countless jobs. Though this bill easily passed the House last year and similar legislation recently passed the Senate, House Republicans refuse to allow a vote on it. A more proactive approach to enforcing existing laws to combat illegal trade practices by foreign countries would also help. What we do not need is more NAFTA-style trade agreements like the recently passed South Korea and Colombia trade deals, which President Obama pushed for and I voted against. I understand that not everyone will agree with all of these prescriptions. But there are steps we can take to strengthen manufacturing that should be easy to agree to. One of them is passing the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, to develop a comprehensive, long-term strategy for revitalizing the manufacturing sector and sparking job creation. This is a simple bill, but one with the potential to have a major impact. It would require a board from the public and private sectors to conduct an in-depth analysis of U.S. manufacturing and then produce a wide-ranging plan for promoting its success. This process would be repeated every four years, keeping manufacturing on Washington’s agenda. Last year, not long after I introduced this bill, it passed the House 379-38. There is nothing in it to stop Congress from passing it in short order. Some naysayers argue America simply cannot compete in manufacturing. They are wrong. Look at Germany. Like America, it’s a high-wage country. But unlike the United States, it runs a trade surplus. I also doubt that the pessimists fully grasp the ramifications of American manufacturing’s decline. As a much-discussed article in the Harvard Business Review recently put it, “Decades of outsourcing manufacturing has left U.S. industry without the means to invent the next generation of high-tech products that are key to rebuilding its economy.” For example, the offshoring of consumer electronics manufacturing allowed Asia to become an innovator in battery technology, which in turn gave manufacturers there a head start in developing hybrid and electric cars. Manufacturing is also critical to the defense of our nation. America cannot afford another decade of manufacturing job losses. Washington owes it to the American people to implement a national manufacturing strategy. U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski, a Democrat, represents the third congressional district from Illinois, which includes much of Chicago’s Southwest Side and the southwest suburbs.
12.02.2011	On Monday, Dec. 12, Congressman Dan Lipinski will provide Third District businesses with an opportunity to learn more about how they can become suppliers of goods and services to the federal government. Businesses can also learn about ways the government can help them grow through export promotion and other assistance. “I’m very pleased to offer local businesses this chance to talk directly with federal agencies about how they can compete for government contracts and tap into the assistance that is available to them,” Rep. Lipinski said. “This is an extremely tough economic environment for small businesses, and I want to do everything I can to help them compete, grow, and create the jobs we need. In October, I held a Jobs Fair that brought together dozens of employers and hundreds of jobseekers, and since then I’ve heard from a number of people who obtained jobs as a result. This event is another way that I’m working to promote job growth and economic opportunity for my constituents.” The event, “Doing Business with the Federal Government,” will be held Monday, Dec. 12, 2011, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the American Legion Hall in Summit, 6050 S. Harlem Ave., Summit, IL. Businesses can meet directly with representatives from a variety of federal agencies, including: the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce (Economic Development Administration, International Trade Administration, and CommerceConnect), the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the General Services Administration, the Small Business Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and others. Please contact Congressman Lipinski's Chicago office at 312-886-0481 for more information or to RSVP. (December 2, 2011) ####
12.01.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped unveil House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Nick J. Rahall’s Invest in American Jobs Act, which would ensure that the steel, iron, and other manufactured goods used in federally funded transportation and infrastructure projects are made in America. Passage of the bill is particularly urgent now, since both the House and Senate are working on multi-year surface transportation reauthorization legislation. The Invest in American Jobs Act would guarantee the maximization of domestic job creation in any federal infrastructure bill. The Invest in American Jobs Act would close loopholes in existing Buy America requirements to prevent a repeat of what happened with the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, which received substantial federal funding but whose steel bridge decks were fabricated by 3,000 workers at a state-run Chinese company with no prior bridge-building experience and shipped to the United States. “When I first heard that large parts of the new bridge between San Francisco and Oakland were going to be ‘Made in China,’ I thought that it was an internet hoax,” Rep. Lipinski said at a press conference with Rep. Rahall in Washington. “In fact, it was a 40,000 ton example of the gaping loopholes in our Buy America laws. There is no reason the federal government should be spending taxpayer dollars – in this case $320 million – on a project that outsources the jobs we desperately need here at home. I’ve had enough of watching taxpayer money go abroad while more American factories close. As we work on passing a robust, multi-year transportation reauthorization bill to build critical infrastructure projects and get people back to work, we should pass this legislation to make sure that every dollar invested stays here in the U.S.A and produces as many jobs as possible for the American people. This is a ‘no brainer’ for most Americans, but we all know that too many in Washington don’t get it.” Rep. Lipinski is a strong supporter of strengthening federal laws to make sure that American taxpayer dollars support domestic jobs. His Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 2722, would reform procurement practices across the federal government to prevent taxpayer money from winding up in the pockets of foreign workers. He also recently forced the Defense Department to abide by existing Buy American rules and rebid a contract that had been improperly awarded to a South Korean company, thereby enabling a local Third District manufacturer in Bedford Park to win the bidding. “When we farm out an infrastructure project to an overseas company, we not only lose the jobs directly connected with that project, we help that company to compete against U.S. manufacturers in the future,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Chinese company that helped build the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge repeatedly stated that a prime motivation for its participation was that it would be better positioned to obtain future contracts for major infrastructure projects in the United States and elsewhere. Washington should be standing up for American workers, not helping to send their taxes and their jobs halfway around the world.” (December 1, 2011) ####
11.21.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to reach a bipartisan compromise to cut budget deficits by $1.2 trillion. “The American people are rightly disgusted with the failure of the members of the Supercommittee to meet in the middle and do the right thing for our country,” Rep. Lipinski said. “With unemployment stuck at 9 percent, we need leadership and a willingness by both sides to compromise. Instead, we get partisanship and intransigence. I’ve had enough, and I know the residents of the Third District have too, many of whom communicated their frustration with the lack of action in Washington at my Town Hall Meeting on Saturday. We’ve reached a point where Washington can’t even clear the low bar it sets for itself. This is the second time in less than a week that Congress has neglected to seize the opportunity to deal with the deficit, having previously failed to pass the Balanced Budget Amendment, which I voted for. “Earlier this month, I joined 101 of my House colleagues on both sides of the aisle to urge the Supercommittee to seek a bipartisan grand bargain to reduce the deficit by the $4 trillion needed to put our nation on a sustainable fiscal path. I also participated in a bipartisan, bicameral call for such an agreement just last week. The failure of the Supercommittee to get to even $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction is a terrible sign. If we’re going to restore America’s economic leadership, spur economic growth, and boost job creation, we need to act to reduce the national debt before it’s too late. The federal government simply cannot continue to live beyond its means indefinitely, any more than any household or business. “The Budget Control Act that Congress passed in August provided that in the event the Supercommittee failed to agree on $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction, automatic spending cuts equal to the same amount would go into effect. Although Social Security, veterans’ programs, and certain other programs would avoid cuts or be largely exempted, these cuts were designed to be objectionable to everyone, so as to compel the committee to reach an agreement. Undoubtedly, the automatic cuts do not represent the best way to reduce budget deficits and strengthen our country. Congress should continue seeking to reach an agreement to reduce the deficit in a thoughtful, targeted fashion. I remain ready to work across the aisle and support a reasonable compromise that puts our nation on a solid fiscal foundation. Washington can and must do better. “Just as we must work together to promote job creation in the short term and the long term, we must also work together to deal with the deficit. At difficult times in the past, Americans have come together and put aside their differences to address critical issues, making our nation stronger. If both sides refuse to come together now, both will have failed the American people.” (November 21, 2011) ####
11.18.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted for H. J. Res. 2 to amend the Constitution to require the federal budget to be balanced. This legislation would force Washington to bite the bullet and restore fiscal discipline before the national debt reaches completely unsustainable levels that drastically reduce economic growth and do grave damage to the already struggling middle class. Unfortunately, the bill did not receive the two-thirds vote necessary for passage. “A balanced budget is critical to restoring our economic leadership, promoting job growth, and assuring a bright future for the American people,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Yet year after year, the budget deficits continue, with no end in sight. This Balanced Budget Amendment will force Washington to make the tough but necessary decisions it has been avoiding for years. Failure to rein in the national debt will inevitably lead to an economic crisis that does grave harm to our country. We had a balanced budget as recently as 2001. There is no reason we cannot have one again.” H. J. Res. 2 does not dictate how the federal budget shall be brought into balance, only that it must be balanced. Nor does it have any detrimental impact on programs funded through trust funds such as Social Security or road funding. In order for the amendment to take effect, it must receive a two-thirds majority vote in both the House and Senate and then be ratified by three-fourths of the states. At the earliest, the amendment would take effect in 2017, providing a reasonable adjustment period and allowing the economy and tax revenues time to recover. The amendment also sensibly ensures that the government’s hands are not tied in the event of an emergency by allowing Congress to temporarily override the requirement that the budget be balanced with a three-fifths vote. In the event that the country is engaged in a military conflict, the requirement could also be waived provided a majority in Congress designates that the conflict causes “an imminent and serious military threat to national security.” In June, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that the surging national debt could damage economic growth to such an extent that the economy would be almost one-fifth smaller in 2035 than would be the case otherwise. “The federal government cannot forever live beyond its means, any more than any household or business,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We face a choice. We can deal with this reality now, while the problem is still manageable and we are able to make carefully considered decisions about the size of government. Or we can stick our heads in the sand and pretend the impossible is possible, in which case we will effectively be allowing financial markets to one day dictate terms to us, as they are doing right now in Europe. I voted for the Balanced Budget Amendment because I believe we need to face facts and take action now, before it is too late.” (November 18, 2011) ####
11.17.2011	On Wednesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted for the Senate amendment to H.R. 674 to help more veterans obtain jobs by providing tax credits for businesses that hire unemployed veterans and by providing veterans with additional education and training benefits. The bill also helps thousands of small businesses by eliminating a burdensome new requirement that all government contracts withhold three percent of payments. The measure passed the House on a unanimous vote and now goes to the President for his signature. “We have our veterans to thank for our freedom,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Their reward when they leave the ranks of our Armed Forces should not be to join the ranks of the unemployed. As bad as the unemployment situation is for the nation as a whole, it is even worse for those who have served and sacrificed for our nation. That’s why I was glad to vote for this bill and to see it pass the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. I remain committed to making sure that America upholds its obligations to those who have fought to defend us.” The legislation, which is fully paid for, provides businesses with a tax credit of up to $5,600 for hiring veterans who have been out of work for more than six months and a tax credit of up to $2,400 for hiring veterans unemployed for between four weeks and six months. It also provides a tax credit of up to $9,600 for hiring veterans with service-connected disabilities who have been looking for a job for more than six months. The bill will also provide approximately 100,000 unemployed veterans with up to one year of additional Montgomery GI benefits for education or training programs and provide disabled veterans up to one year of additional Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits. A new requirement that all government contracts for goods and services would be subject to a 3 percent income tax withholding was problematic because it would have reduced cash flow for small companies as they struggle to pay their bills in the weak economy. The withholding would have effectively sidelined money that could be helping to boost the economy and job creation. While the date the requirement would take effect had been delayed several times, H.R. 674 eliminates it altogether, allowing businesses to decide when and how to allocate their own funds and helping to keep the economic recovery on track. (November 17, 2011) ####
11.16.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) joined a bipartisan, bicameral call urging the Congressional Super Committee and his colleagues to support a comprehensive, $4 trillion deficit-reduction plan that helps assure a bright economic future for the American people. Congressman Lipinski is one of 102 House members who recently signed a bipartisan letter calling on the Super Committee to show the bipartisan leadership necessary to reach a grand bargain to reduce budget deficits. A similar bipartisan letter was signed by 45 Senators. Participants in today’s press conference included fellow signatories Rep. Heath Shuler (D-NC), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD), and Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), as well as Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin (D) and Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA). “If we’re going to restore America’s economic leadership, spur economic growth, and boost job creation, we need to act to reduce the national debt before it’s too late,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The federal government simply cannot continue to live beyond its means indefinitely. The ongoing crisis in Europe is a vivid reminder of the terrible consequences of ignoring reality and pretending that deficits can be allowed to continue to grow uninterrupted. Stabilizing America’s finances and assuring a bright economic future for our children and grandchildren will require more than the $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction that Congress agreed to back in August. Congress needs to ‘go big,’ to put aside politics, and do what is in America’s best long-term interest. If neither side will compromise, the end result will be far more objectionable to everyone than what could have been achieved if the parties met in the middle. That’s why I’m urging the Super Committee and my colleagues to support a grand bargain that protects the middle class and helps restore America’s economic strength.” Congressman Lipinski has been working to reduce deficits and prevent or eliminate spending the American people cannot afford. At the same time, he has opposed extreme budget proposals that would hurt the middle class, seniors, and job creation and that fail to close special interest tax loopholes. In August, he voted for the compromise agreement to cut the deficit by $900 billion, provide for further deficit reduction, and avoid a government default that would have damaged the fragile economy and hampered job creation. In April, he voted for the bipartisan budget compromise to prevent a government shutdown and reduce spending by approximately $38 billion. Rep. Lipinski also voted against the Republican budget proposal that would have changed Medicare into a voucher program and doubled costs for seniors. In addition, he did not vote for the $1 trillion health care law, the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, or the poorly designed $862 billion stimulus bill. A copy of the House letter is available here. (November 16, 2011) ####
11.14.2011	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will hold a Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, Nov. 19 at Brother Rice High School in Chicago to listen to his constituents and take their questions about federal issues. “During these difficult economic times it is more important than ever that the people of the Third District have a representative who is listening to them and taking action to defend the middle class and promote job creation,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I look forward to hearing from my constituents at my latest Town Hall Meeting, discussing my efforts on their behalf, and having my staff available to assist them with any issues involving the federal government.” Town Hall Meeting Saturday, Nov. 19, 2011 10:00 a.m. Brother Rice High School 10001 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago, IL Congressional staff will be available starting one hour before the meeting to assist constituents with any questions or concerns they have regarding federal issues and agencies, including Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans’ benefits and the Postal Service. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. ###
11.10.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) brought the head of the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airports Division to Lewis University Airport to meet with local officials and discuss plans for the airport’s future and how it can stimulate further economic growth and job creation in nearby communities. The visit by Christa Fornarotto, the FAA’s Associate Administrator for Airports, was the first by such a high-level FAA official in memory. “Lewis University Airport is a great asset in northwestern Will County and already serves as an economic engine for the area,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But it has the potential to make an even greater contribution to local economic development and job creation, and as a senior member of the House Transportation Committee and the Aviation Subcommittee I want to make sure it fulfills that potential. That’s why I asked Associate Administrator Fornarotto to visit the airport and hear directly from local officials about future plans for the airport. It is critical that federal, state, county, and local officials all work together along with Lewis University and others in the private sector to upgrade the airport for the betterment of the region.” Rep. Lipinski is working to help pass a long-term FAA reauthorization bill that provides significant funding for the FAA’s airport improvement program, which is the funding source for the planned reconstruction of Lewis University Airport’s first runway. This runway dates to 1990 and must be reconstructed to continue accommodating the larger aircraft that use the airport now and will continue to do so as it grows. Passage of a long-term bill would prevent a repeat of the partial FAA shutdown that occurred over the summer and hampered numerous airport projects. Rep. Lipinski is the most senior northeastern Illinois member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and sits on its Aviation Subcommittee. He has worked closely with the FAA to ensure the continued strength of the region’s aviation system. Owned and operated by the Joliet Regional Port District, Lewis University Airport accommodates 105,000 arrivals and departures annually. Its convenient location near three major interstate highways in a fast-growing area has attracted numerous Fortune 500 and other corporate aircraft users and makes it a key selling point for the region as it seeks to attract further economic development and jobs. “FAA support and funding are critical for the future of Lewis University Airport,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I am going to continue to work to make sure that we invest in the airport to make it a magnet for regional development. With unemployment stuck at 9 percent, we need to be doing everything we can to attract jobs in both the short term and the long term. I look forward to continuing to work with everyone who wants to assure a bright future for the airport and economic growth in the region.” Participants at today’s meeting included John Noak, Mayor of Romeoville & Joliet Regional Port District Board Member; Dan Vera, Chairman of the Joliet Regional Port District; Chris Lawson, Airport Director of Aviation, Lewis University Airport/Joliet Regional Port District; Jim Bilotta, Will County Board Member and Chairman of Transportation Committee; Dr. Susan Shea, Director of the Division of Aeronautics, Illinois Department of Transportation; and Bill Brogan, Lewis University, Chair of Aviation Department. (November 10, 2011) ####
11.03.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) urged his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together in the wake of House Speaker John Boehner’s announcement that he plans to introduce a transportation reauthorization bill by Thanksgiving and the Senate vote killing President Obama’s transportation infrastructure stimulus. Boehner’s announcement comes two days after Rep. Lipinski urged the Speaker to take advantage of the growing support on both sides of the aisle for passing a robust, multi-year, job-creating transportation reauthorization bill. “After sending a letter earlier this week urging Speaker Boehner to make passage of a transportation reauthorization bill a top priority, this announcement is a ray of hope for progress on a bill that is atop my jobs plan agenda,” said Rep. Lipinski, who as the most senior Chicago-area member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee has been pushing for passage of a transportation reauthorization for nearly three years. “What’s most important now is that we build on the momentum that exists to pass a fully paid-for, multi-year, bipartisan transportation reauthorization that will put hundreds of thousands of people to work building critical projects that relieve congestion and enhance safety. I look forward to studying the legislation closely when it is released. We have no time for political message pieces; it is time we finally get this bill done for the American people.” “Today, the Senate voted down the transportation infrastructure stimulus that was part of President Obama’s American Jobs Act, as well as alternative legislation that Senate Republicans put forward knowing it could not pass. Now we must move forward together to pass a transportation reauthorization bill that addresses our enormous transportation infrastructure needs. Make no mistake, despite the squabbling today in the Senate, there is support for a robust reauthorization bill on both sides of the aisle. Democrats on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee have long urged passage of such a bill. More recently, House Republicans have abandoned a proposal to cut transportation funding by roughly a third and House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica has proposed making a reauthorization the GOP’s ‘primary jobs bill.’ Meanwhile, on the Senate side, the Environment and Public Works Committee is expected to pass its portion of a bipartisan two-year, $109 billion reauthorization bill next week. More than two years after the last reauthorization expired, and nearly three years after I first called on Congress to act, we have a golden opportunity to both put people back to work and address the congestion and delays that cost our country more than $100 billion annually. Failure to make a serious and genuine effort to forge a bipartisan bill with a legitimate chance of passing both the House and Senate would be an abdication by Congress of its responsibility to the American people.” Every four to six years, Congress passes a surface transportation “reauthorization” bill – major transportation legislation that sets policy and provides funding for investments in America’s roads, highways, bridges, and public transit. However, the last long-term bill expired in September 2009. Passing short-term extensions of the expired legislation, as Congress has already done eight times since then, makes it difficult for states to undertake major projects due to the uncertainty over funding. The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion of transportation investment creates and supports almost 28,000 jobs. Under the last transportation reauthorization bill, Illinois received nearly $9.7 billion in funding. On Tuesday, Rep. Lipinski sent House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, and other House leaders a letter urging them to take advantage of the growing support on both sides of the aisle for passing a robust, bipartisan, job-creating transportation reauthorization bill. (November 3, 2011) ####
11.01.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) sent House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, and other House leaders a letter urging them to take advantage of the growing support on both sides of the aisle for passing a robust, bipartisan, job-creating transportation reauthorization bill. Lipinski’s call is being echoed by business, labor, and local government leaders. “The paralysis on Capitol Hill has left many Americans understandably pessimistic about the chances for action on jobs,” said Rep. Lipinski, the most senior Chicago-area member of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “But behind the scenes, support has been building on both sides of the aisle for finally passing a transportation reauthorization more than two years after the last long-term bill expired. Today, I’m urging Speaker Boehner and the rest of the House leadership to make sure they don’t miss this golden opportunity for boosting job growth in a fiscally responsible way. As I have argued for almost three years, a fully paid-for, robust, multi-year transportation reauthorization bill is the best boost we can give our economy right now, for the short term and long term. A six-year reauthorization that cuts funding by more than 30 percent will not get the job done, and neither will a short-term stimulus.” The Federal Highway Administration estimates that $1 billion of transportation investment creates and supports almost 28,000 jobs. With job growth having slowed in recent months and $1.3 trillion needed to bring our surface transportation infrastructure up to a state of good repair, passage of a new bill is urgent. Every four to six years, Congress passes a surface transportation “reauthorization” bill – major transportation legislation that sets policy and provides funding for investments in America’s roads, highways, bridges, and public transit. However, the last long-term bill expired in September 2009. Passing short-term extensions of the expired legislation, as Congress has already done eight times since then, makes it difficult for states to undertake major projects due to the uncertainty over funding. Rep. Lipinski has been pushing for action on a transportation bill since he brought the Highway & Transit Subcommittee to Chicago in October 2007 for the first hearing on reauthorizing the transportation bill. Under the last transportation reauthorization bill Illinois received nearly $9.7 billion in funding. “Almost two years ago, Rep. Lipinski brought myself and many others together to call for passage of a transportation reauthorization bill,” said Illinois Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Doug Whitley. “Today, it’s high time Congress took action. Passing a robust, multi-year transportation bill would put countless people to work building critical infrastructure projects. But just as importantly, it would enhance long-term economic growth by reducing congestion and increasing business efficiency for many years to come. It’s a fiscally responsible, forward-looking way to get our economy moving, and I commend Rep. Lipinski for his leadership in continuing to push this issue in Washington.” “We’ve been kicking the can down the road long enough,” said James Connolly, Business Manager of the Laborers’ District Council of Chicago and Vicinity. “If we don’t fix our roads and bridges with a sustainable, long-term, well-funded capital bill soon, we’re going to run out of road to kick that can down. Let’s not simply use a band-aid approach of multiple, short-term extensions of SAFETEA-LU. We need leadership, and that’s why the Laborers are proud to have a leader like Rep. Lipinski. He recognizes the urgency of this issue and works tirelessly to get both sides of the aisle together to pass a robust, multi-year transportation reauthorization bill. Congress must realize that if America is going to compete in this global economy, America must invest in its infrastructure.” “A modern transportation system that gets people and goods where they need to go in a timely fashion is critical for the Chicago region’s present and future prosperity,” said Jerry Bennett, mayor of Palos Hills and Chair of the Board of the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning. “But the system we have was built decades ago and is in desperate need of investment. Passing a robust transportation reauthorization is absolutely critical to meeting the challenges we face and keeping our region competitive in the 21st Century. Rep. Lipinski has pushed continually for this legislation and I’m pleased to join him in urging Congress to seize this opportunity and take action.” In the Senate, the Environment and Public Works Committee is scheduled to consider next week a $109 billion, two-year surface transportation reauthorization bill that has strong bipartisan support and is evidence of the growing push to pass a reauthorization. This week, the Senate also reportedly will take up the transportation component of President Obama’s jobs bill, although that legislation is not expected to pass, with many lawmakers and transportation stakeholders preferring a long-term reauthorization. Meanwhile, the House has shown little enthusiasm for a proposal made in July to cut transportation funding by 30 percent over six years, demonstrating that Members understand a different approach is needed. Rep. Lipinski believes funding should be increased or at the very least kept level. “Providing adequate funding for transportation that members of both parties can agree on will require hard work and some compromise,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But the alternative is doing nothing, and that’s simply unacceptable, as more and more members of Congress have come to realize. The American people have waited long enough for action to promote job growth and address the congestion that costs our country more than $100 billion annually.” (November 1, 2011) ####
10.26.2011	Today, Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) led 39 Members of Congress in sending a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton urging a broader use of available sanctions against foreign companies that invest in Iran’s energy sector and thereby help to fuel its nuclear ambitions. “Iran’s energy sector is the lifeblood of its economy,” Rep. Lipinski said. “By curbing energy investment in Iran, we can seriously hamper its efforts to develop nuclear weapons, its support for international terrorism, and its overall influence. But doing so will require the Administration to aggressively target companies from China – as well as from other countries such as South Korea – that reportedly continue to do energy-related business with Iran despite U.S. laws allowing for the imposition of sanctions. For the sake of American national security, our government must utilize the full array of legal tools at its disposal to isolate Iran and force it to recalculate its interests.” “We ought not be surprised that Chinese energy companies persist in investing in the Iranian energy sector, but that doesn’t mean that we should tolerate it,” Rep. Wolf said. “The Administration must be proactive in utilizing the tools at their disposal to sanction such companies, thereby deterring Iranian efforts to attain nuclear weapons. If the Iranian government fulfills its nuclear ambitions it would have disastrous consequences for the region and the world as a whole. The time to act is now.” Passage by Congress last year of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act and similar legislation instituted by other countries resulted in a number of foreign companies deciding to cease to do business in and with Iran rather than face potential sanctions. Yet companies from China and elsewhere have remained active in Iran without suffering consequences, showing the need to go beyond threats to impose sanctions against companies that continue to do business there. Recent news of an alleged Iranian plot to assassinate Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the United States by bombing a restaurant in America further highlighted Iran’s dangerous and unpredictable behavior and the need for action to isolate its leadership. “The Iranian regime is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism and cannot be allowed to build a nuclear weapon,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Each day that foreign companies are allowed to support the Iranian energy sector without international repercussions further enables and empowers Iran to continue seeking to threaten American national security. Clearly, our overall efforts directed at Iran’s acquisition of technology and development of its energy sector thus far have not succeeded in dissuading the Iranian regime from its threatening course. Additional efforts are called for, and we ask that the United States once again take the lead.” (October 26, 2011) ####
10.18.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced that Hoist Liftruck of Bedford Park was awarded a new job-boosting contract by the Defense Department that was slated to be sent to South Korea until he forced the Pentagon to abide by the Buy American Act. Lipinski also called for passage of legislation he has introduced to strengthen the Buy American Act and prevent the federal government from improperly awarding federal contracts to foreign companies in violation of the law. With Rep. Lipinski’s assistance, Hoist Liftruck won a $670,000 contract for four 18-ton forklifts that initially was improperly awarded to a South Korean company. One of the last remaining American forklift manufacturers, Hoist is currently hiring additional workers. “These days it is not often that we have good news to report about an American manufacturer. So as a strong supporter of American manufacturing and local manufacturers, I am very proud to be able to announce today a new $670,000 U.S. Department of Defense contract for Hoist Liftruck,” Rep. Lipinski stated in his remarks at Hoist. “Buying American is one of the fastest and most effective ways that we can get our economy moving and get Americans back to work. This contract is supporting almost 40 jobs here at Hoist and is contributing to the demand that is spurring Hoist to hire new workers. And it’s not just Hoist and its workers that reap the rewards. Hoist’s supply chain is based heavily in the Midwest, which means that there are a lot of other regional manufacturers that are going to see more business as a result of this contract. This is clearly a victory in the fight against the offshoring of American jobs that has been undermining the middle class and hurting our local communities.” “Having founded Hoist Liftruck and built it into a U.S. manufacturing stalwart over the last 17 years, I can tell you that this contract is supporting jobs not just at Hoist but at the many other Midwest companies in our supply chain,” Hoist Liftruck President Marty Flaska said. “For us to have lost this contract would have represented a total failure by the federal government to recognize the kind of heavily subsidized and frankly unfair overseas competition we face every day. On behalf of Hoist Liftruck and its employees, I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for standing up for Hoist and American manufacturing.” “When Marty and Randy came to me last year and told me that a contract had been awarded to a South Korean company that should have gone to them under the rules of the Buy American Act, I was appalled, so I joined with them to take action,” Lipinski recounted. “When I questioned the Pentagon, I got a boilerplate response saying that this contract complied with the Buy American Act. But that claim didn’t hold up to scrutiny, and eventually they were forced to admit that in fact the Buy American Act had been violated. They re-bid the contract and Hoist won.” Rep. Lipinski has introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 2722, to close loopholes in the Buy American Act and stop the rampant practice of awarding government contracts to foreign companies in violation of the Buy American Act. Among other things, the bill would help prevent the government from dividing up a single project into numerous different contracts for the purpose of making them small enough that the Buy American Act does not apply. Rep. Lipinski also voted against the South Korea Free Trade Agreement negotiated by the Obama administration and passed by Congress last week. Under that agreement, many contracts similar to Hoist’s could wind up going to South Korean companies, because in many cases South Korean firms would be treated as if they were American. In recent years, more than 20 percent of Commerce Department purchases have come from abroad, the Defense Department has waived Buy American rules 44,000 times, and the Treasury Department couldn’t find a single domestic producer of office furniture. The situation is probably even worse than is known because agency reporting is so poor. “The Buy American Improvement Act will create tens of thousands of American jobs by making sure the federal government buys products stamped ‘Made in U.S.A.’ whenever possible,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It’s bad enough that Washington has failed to defend American workers from the unfair trade practices of foreign governments. But for the government to literally put taxpayer money in the pockets of overseas workers is even worse. Washington must recognize what more and more Americans understand: buying American is one of the fastest ways to create jobs and something everyone can do to jumpstart our economy.” Congressman Lipinski is a longtime advocate for requiring the federal government to Buy American and for strengthening manufacturing. In addition to having introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, he is the author of the bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, which will help revitalize domestic manufacturing, create jobs, and ensure America is able to provide for its own defense without relying on foreign countries. The House passed the bill last year 379-38. His five-point Jobs Plan includes numerous initiatives aimed at revitalizing American manufacturing. (October 18, 2011) ###
10.14.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) issued the following statement on the decision by Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius to prevent implementation of the CLASS Act, a long-term care insurance program that was part of the health care law. Rep. Lipinski had warned from the beginning that the program was fiscally unsustainable and doomed to insolvency. “At least in one respect, this decision is not in the least surprising,” said Rep. Lipinski, who voted against the health care law. “Experts had labeled the CLASS Act a fiscal disaster from inception. There was no way it could survive on its own, as I pointed out even before the health care law was voted on. In March, I joined with two of my colleagues from across the aisle – Reps. Charles Boustany Jr. (La.) and Phil Gingrey (Ga.) – to introduce legislation to eliminate the CLASS Act. While it took HHS 19 months to realize what had been clear from the beginning, I am glad that it finally arrived at the conclusion that the program was beyond repair and made the decision to end it before it began.” The Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Act created a fatally flawed long-term care insurance program. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the CLASS Act would add at least tens of billions of dollars to the federal deficit every decade after 20 years. The Chief Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services found the program faced “a very serious risk” of entering an “insurance death spiral.” President Obama’s National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform – the “Bowles-Simpson Debt Commission” – agreed, observing that the act is “viewed by many experts as financially unsound” and threatened to “collapse under its own weight.” “It is unfortunate that more care was not taken in creating the health care law passed last year,” Lipinski said. “America needs real health care reform, but the bill that was passed was deeply flawed and failed to produce real reform for the middle class. I will continue working to change the current law to ensure it works for American families who are struggling through very difficult economic times.” Rep. Lipinski had helped to introduce the Fiscal Responsibility and Retirement Security Act, H.R. 1173, to eliminate the CLASS Act. (October 14, 2011) ####
10.12.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced he will vote against job-killing trade agreements with South Korea and Colombia. The deals, which were first negotiated and agreed to by President Bush, were sent to Congress last week by President Obama. “I cannot imagine a worse time for Congress to be passing job-killing trade agreements,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Expanding a NAFTA-style trade agenda that has already helped destroy 5 million manufacturing jobs would make no sense in the best of times, but to do it when 25 million Americans are unemployed or underemployed is absurd. Time and again, we’ve seen supporters of these kinds of agreements assure us that they’ll lead to economic growth and jobs, only to watch as more American factories shut down and reopen under the flag of one of our trading partners. Manufacturers in my district know this, workers in my district know this, only Congress and the President seem blind to it. “The South Korea Free Trade Agreement would allow South Korean companies to assemble Chinese parts and export them to the U.S. on favorable terms, establish a mechanism for allowing imports from North Korea, and create obstacles for American companies seeking to hold South Korean corporations responsible for engaging in unfair trade. It does not address currency manipulation, despite South Korea’s past history of devaluing its currency to make its exports more competitive. Moreover, even the government’s official evaluation found that Korean auto exports to the U.S. will increase far more than American auto exports to Korea under the agreement. Little wonder that one study found the deal could result in the loss of almost 160,000 U.S. jobs. Meanwhile, the Colombia deal could result in the loss of an estimated 55,000 American jobs. Not only that, it would reward the Colombian government despite its failure to prevent the killing of hundreds of Colombian workers seeking better wages and working conditions. That conflicts with both our values and our interests. “Here’s a better idea: Rather than continuing down the same road that has gotten us nowhere, House Republican leaders should allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to impose tariffs against China and other countries that deliberately devalue their currency to make it harder for American companies to compete. The Senate just passed such a bill, as did the House last year with the support of 99 Republicans and nearly all Democrats. Ending China’s currency manipulation would create at least 500,000 jobs, according to some economists. That’s something everyone should be able to support, regardless of party.” (October 12, 2011) ####
10.11.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) applauded the Senate for passing bipartisan legislation to impose tariffs against China and other countries that unfairly manipulate their currency and urged House Republican leaders to allow a vote on a similar bill that passed the House with the support of 99 Republicans last year. The Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, S. 1619, passed the Senate by a vote of 63 to 35. Ending China’s currency manipulation would create at least 500,000 American jobs, according to economists’ estimates. “Manufacturers in the Third District and across America have been getting killed by Chinese companies because of currency manipulation that puts them at an enormous disadvantage,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The only thing more unfair than China’s devaluation of its currency is the fact that Washington has let it continue, with no remorse for the American workers and American entrepreneurs who have suffered. Republicans who voted to fight back against currency manipulation last year now have an opportunity to press their leaders for a vote and show that their support last time around wasn’t just for show.” China’s currency, the renminbi, is undervalued by approximately 25 percent, artificially lowering the price of Chinese-made goods and raising the price of American-made goods. Two recent studies provide fresh evidence of the high cost of unfair trade with China. The Economic Policy Institute found that 2.8 million American jobs have been lost over the last decade due to America’s trade deficit with China, a deficit that owes much to China’s currency manipulation. Illinois was among the hardest hit states, losing more than 118,000 jobs. In addition, a study by economists at MIT and elsewhere found that cheap Chinese imports have wiped out U.S. jobs, depressed wages both inside and outside manufacturing, and driven up costs for taxpayers to a far greater extent than some have recognized. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, H.R. 639, has 225 bipartisan cosponsors in the House, passed the House last year by a wide margin, and would allow tariffs to be imposed against currency manipulators. Congressman Lipinski is an original cosponsor of the bill, voted for it last year, and has supported similar legislation since he was first elected to Congress. “There is no doubt whatsoever that unfair trade with China has led to American job losses and mounting costs for taxpayers,” Congressman Lipinski said. “American workers are still the most skilled, productive, and innovative in the world. But they will continue to suffer for as long as our government fails to defend them from currency manipulation by China and others. It’s time for the House to show some backbone, stop taking marching orders from multinational corporations that don’t care whether their factories are in Illinois or Shanghai, and take action to create jobs.” (October 11, 2011) ####
10.11.2011	On Monday, Oct. 17, and Friday, Oct. 21, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) will host Senior Fairs to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses. Ald. Matt O’Shea and State Rep. Bill Cunningham will attend the Oct. 17 fair at St. Xavier University's Shannon Center. State Rep. Michael Zalewski will attend the Oct. 21 fair at Rhine VFW Post #2729 in Chicago. “I take great pride in looking out for the interests of the Third District’s senior citizens while on Capitol Hill,” Lipinski said. “But I also want seniors to know that I stand ready to help them cut through bureaucratic red tape at home to get the services they need. My office has helped countless seniors get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans’ benefits, the Postal Service, and many other federal issues. These Senior Fairs are an extension of my help for all the seniors in my district.” The Senior Fair at St. Xavier University’s Shannon Center, 3700 W. 103rd St., Chicago, will take place on Monday, Oct. 17, from 10 a.m. to Noon. The Senior Fair at Rhine VFW Post #2729, 5858 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, will take place on Friday, Oct. 21, from 10 a.m. to Noon. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. ####
10.10.2011	Southwest News-Herald October 10, 2011 By Congressman Dan Lipinski This week, the Senate is expected to take decisive action to defend American workers from unfair trade by passing a bipartisan bill to crack down on China’s currency manipulation. As someone who has long fought for such legislation and who voted for a similar bill last year, I applaud those Senators who have stood firm in the face of pressure, and I urge my colleagues in the House to follow suit. When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, some claimed American workers would benefit. But the past decade of manufacturing job losses has shown how naive it is to believe that trade is automatically good for everyone, no matter the trading partner. The reality is that China continues to manipulate the value of its currency to artificially lower the price of Chinese-made goods and raise the price of imports from America. The results for American workers have been devastating. Two recent studies have shown just how far-reaching the impact has been. A report by the Economic Policy Institute found that 2.8 million American jobs, including 118,000 in Illinois, have been lost over the last decade due to our trade deficit with China. Meanwhile, a study by three independent economists found that cheap Chinese imports have wiped out U.S. jobs, depressed wages, and driven up costs for taxpayers to a far greater extent than previously recognized. What’s more, economists believe halting China’s currency manipulation altogether would create at least 500,000 American jobs. But none of us who live in this area need economists’ studies to understand the impact that China’s cheating has had on American workers. We can see it every day in our neighborhoods. Given all this, it only makes sense to pass legislation allowing tariffs to be imposed against countries that manipulate their currency. Unfortunately, House Republican leaders have dug in their heels and are refusing to allow such a bill to reach the floor, despite the fact that many of their own members voted for it last year. It is critical that they change course, and I continue to press them to do so. The fight to stop China’s currency manipulation is not the only battle over trade that is occurring in Congress. By the time you read this, the House of Representatives may already have voted on proposed Free Trade Agreements with South Korea and Colombia. Unfortunately, these NAFTA-style deals do not reflect the painful lessons we have learned over the past decades about the dangers of unfair trade and ill-conceived trade deals. When these agreements reach the House floor, I will stand up for American workers, just as I always have, and vote against them. Under the South Korea FTA – which was originally drafted by President Bush’s administration – South Korean auto exports to the U.S. would surge, South Korean companies would be able to assemble Chinese parts and export them to the U.S. on favorable terms, and North Korea, one of the world’s most repressive regimes, could be given a chance to export to the United States. Nor does the agreement address South Korean currency manipulation. Little wonder that one study found it could cause the loss of 159,000 U.S. jobs. Not only would the Colombia FTA result in the loss of an estimated 55,000 jobs, it would also reward the Colombian government despite its failure to prevent the killing of hundreds of Colombian workers seeking better wages and working conditions. That conflicts with both our values and our interests. So long as it occurs on a level playing field, America has nothing to fear from trade, and much to gain. For generations, our ability to compete in the international marketplace has helped to fuel our prosperity. But we cannot allow our long history of success to obscure present realities. And the reality is that America’s workers cannot prosper if they are forced to compete with one hand tied behind their backs.
10.10.2011	The Congressman speaks with a constituent during Friday's Job Fair in Bridgeview. On Friday, Congressman Dan Lipinski held a Job Fair that featured three dozen companies and employers and drew hundreds of job seekers to the Bridgeview Community Center. “This morning, the September unemployment numbers were released, and they showed another month of thoroughly inadequate job growth,” the Congressman said. “Right now, there are nearly 25 million unemployed or underemployed Americans. As the turnout at today’s Job Fair showed, people are hungry for work. Moreover, they have a tremendous amount of skill and experience to offer, as I can attest to first hand from my many conversations today with job seekers. Fortunately, there are businesses that are hiring, and I was pleased to be able to gather several dozen of them for this Job Fair. This is an incredibly difficult economic environment, especially for small and mid-size businesses. Those that survived the recession and the sluggish growth of the last several years, and continue to soldier on in the face of uncertainty, are to be commended. To everyone who came out to today’s event, I want to say, ‘Thank you.’” “While some might see today’s event as a symbol of hard times, I saw it as proof of perseverance. Americans, including many who have been looking for work for months on end, are not giving up, even as partisan bickering and gridlock rule the day in Washington. Neither are business owners and managers, despite the gloom-and-doom headlines that confront us at every turn. Now more than ever, confidence is critical to the fate of our economy. In June, I released a five-point Jobs Plan that aims to help restore job growth and America’s economic leadership. My plan would strengthen manufacturing, modernize our infrastructure, level the international playing field, improve education and workforce training, and invest in high-tech research and innovation that drive economic growth. As much as the recessions, the job losses, and the bailouts of the last decade have done to breed doubt and pessimism, American workers remain the most skilled, innovative, and productive on earth. With the right approach – one that puts the middle class first and refuses to take marching orders from special interests – I am confident that we can ignite sustainable job growth and ensure our status as the world’s undisputed economic leader for decades to come. This is America, and it would be a betrayal of our history to aim for anything less.” ###
10.10.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement on the start of construction on the Englewood Flyover, a long-awaited $133 million project that will create nearly 1,500 jobs, reduce Metra delays for Third District riders, and boost long-term economic growth as part of the CREATE rail modernization project. Rep. Lipinski celebrated groundbreaking on the flyover at the project’s site at 63rd Street and State Street with U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Gov. Pat Quinn, Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Sen. Dick Durbin, and other elected officials. “There aren’t many projects that deliver this kind of bang for the buck,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The Englewood Flyover means more jobs, better Metra service, faster freight movement, high-speed rail, and less congestion on our roads. As a linchpin of the CREATE rail modernization project, it’s critical to modernizing our aging rail system, preserving our status as America’s transportation hub, and boosting long-term job creation in northeastern Illinois. Having obtained the initial $100 million for CREATE back in 2005, having helped to secure and preserve the funding for the flyover, and having worked to keep the project on track when negotiations hit a snag, I’m very glad we’re finally breaking ground.” The Englewood Flyover is a bridge that will carry Metra’s Rock Island line over the Norfolk Southern/Amtrak tracks near 63rd Street and State Street in Chicago. Currently, approximately 140 Metra, Amtrak, and freight trains clog the intersection daily, producing long delays. In addition to immediately reducing delays on Metra’s Rock Island District line, the flyover is the critical first step toward eliminating delays on Metra’s Southwest Service line. On average, 40,000 people ride the Rock Island and Southwest Service lines each weekday. A partnership between the federal government, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the Chicago Department of Transportation, Metra, and the Association of American Railroads, CREATE will reduce congestion with track, switch, and signal upgrades, as well as new overpasses and underpasses. Failure to untangle Chicago’s congested and aging freight-rail system through CREATE would mean missing out on 17,000 jobs and $2 billion in annual economic production in the Chicago metropolitan area. “Completing the Englewood Flyover is just the first step to untangling Chicago’s congested freight and commuter rail system,” Rep. Lipinski said. “To finish the job, we must pass a robust transportation reauthorization bill. Three years ago I brought the House Transportation Committee to Chicago to hold the first hearing on this bill. I've continued to push for passage of such a bill because it will put hundreds of thousands of people to work building badly needed, long-overdue projects. As my constituents reiterated to me at my Job Fair this past week, they don’t want partisan bickering, they want action that gets people back to work and helps restore America’s economic strength for years to come.” (October 10, 2011) ####
09.30.2011	On Friday, October 7, Congressman Dan Lipinski will host a Job Fair from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Bridgeview Community Center, 7900 S. Oketo Avenue, Bridgeview, IL. The fair will provide job seekers an opportunity to meet with a wide range of area businesses that are currently hiring. Attendees should be sure to bring multiple copies of their resume. “Helping Americans get back to work is my top priority,” Congressman Lipinski said. “This Job Fair is an excellent opportunity for area residents looking for work to network and connect with local businesses. In June, I released a five-point Jobs Plan that aims to foster domestic job growth by strengthening manufacturing, modernizing our infrastructure, improving education and workforce training, restoring fair trade, and investing in innovative research and development. I look forward to continuing to promote job creation and economic opportunities for every American.” Participating businesses include, among others: BNSF, Norfolk Southern, Academia Truck Driving School, Cintas Corporation, Brookfield Zoo, EMD, Staffmark, Schneider Trucking, Amtrak, Comfort Keepers, Walgreens, Guardian Security, UPS, Moraine Valley Community College, Regional Transportation Authority, Illinois Department of Transportation, Hoist Liftruck Mfg., and Community Nurse Health Association. For more information on attending or participating, please call 312-886-0481. (September 30, 2011) ####
09.19.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement: “Metra’s Board of Directors made the right decision today in rejecting a proposal to cut weekend and weekday service on the Southwest Service line. The impact of cutting Southwest Service on Metra’s budget deficit would have been negligible, but the impact on the public would have been significant. I’m glad the board heeded the letter I sent this week along with 21 other elected officials strongly objecting to the proposed cuts. I encourage Metra to seek ways to increase its efficiency so that it can select options for trimming its deficit that do the least harm to the public and to future ridership. Having led the effort that resulted in the establishment of weekend service in 2009, I know how important it is to residents of both southwest Cook County and northeast Will County. I look forward to continuing to ensure an adequate level of service along the line.” Metra’s Board had been presented with a proposal to eliminate weekend service on three lines, including SWS, and eliminate weekday service between 179th Street and Manhattan on two trains. Under that plan, Southwest Service riders would have lost all six Saturday trains plus some weekday service while eight other lines would have seen no cuts whatsoever. Yet the cuts to Southwest Service would have saved less than one tenth of one percent of Metra’s operating budget. Joining Congressman Lipinski in sending the letter to Metra this week were Alsip Mayor Patrick Kitching, Burbank Mayor Harry Klein, Bridgeview Mayor Steven Landek, Chicago 13th Ward Ald. Marty Quinn, Chicago 18th Ward Ald. Lona Lane, Chicago Ridge Mayor Eugene Siegel, Evergreen Park Mayor James J. Sexton, Hickory Hills Mayor Michael Howley, Hometown Mayor Kevin Casey, Homer Glen Mayor James Daley Jr., Manhattan Mayor William A. Borgo, Chicago 23rd Ward Ald. Michael Zalewski, New Lenox Mayor Tim Baldermann, Oak Lawn Mayor Dave Heilmann, Orland Hills Mayor Kyle Hastings, Orland Park Mayor Daniel J. McLaughlin, Palos Heights Mayor Robert Straz, Palos Hills Mayor Gerald Bennett, Palos Park Mayor John Mahoney, Tinley Park Mayor Edward Zabrocki, and Worth Mayor Randy Keller. (September 19, 2011) ####
09.15.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement: “The Senate’s decision to follow the lead of the House and prevent another shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration and extend surface transportation legislation is good news, but it’s just the first step. What Congress and the President need to do now is immediately start working to pass a robust, multi-year highway and transit bill that can put Americans back to work building badly needed infrastructure projects. In October 2008, I brought the Highway and Transit Subcommittee of the House Transportation Committee to Chicago for the first hearing in preparation for passage of a long-term bill. Unfortunately, a lack of support for such a bill from the Administration and in the Senate has led to gridlock, resulting in the need for eight short-term extensions, a loss of construction jobs, and an inability to make the long-term investment America needs. On Monday, I was pleased to join with Sen. Mark Kirk and Rep. Randy Hultgren in issuing a bipartisan, bicameral call for action. Despite the hold-up in the Senate that preceded its vote, renewed concerns about the possibility of a double-dip recession seem to have had a long-overdue sobering affect on Washington in recent weeks. Conversations with a number of my colleagues have left me optimistic that a robust highway and transit bill could command bipartisan support. Such a bill would require some innovative approaches and a willingness by both sides to compromise. But the alternative is to continue kicking the can down the road while the public suffers. Finally, two years after the last long-term bill expired, I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me in supporting a surface transportation bill that creates jobs quickly while making lasting improvements to our roads, bridges, railways, and public transit.” (September 15, 2011) ####
09.14.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) led 22 elected officials in sending a letter to Metra expressing strong opposition to its proposal to reduce weekday service and cut weekend service entirely on the Southwest Service line. Congressman Lipinski led the way in establishing long-sought weekend service on the line more than two years ago. “As elected officials representing communities along Metra’s SouthWest Service line, we write to express our strong opposition to the service reductions proposed during the agency’s July and August Board meetings,” the letter to Metra Executive Director and CEO Alexander Clifford states. “In particular, we are concerned about Metra’s consideration of disproportionate cuts to SWS, including reductions in weekday service and the termination of weekend trains. These measures would yield very few savings in the context of the Fiscal Year 2012 budget shortfall and would likely disenfranchise many riders. Therefore, we strongly urge Metra to reconsider the proposed SWS service cuts and continue to work with us to ensure an adequate level of service along the line.” Metra has said it faces a budget gap of $100 million. Having rejected a proposal to implement unprecedented service cuts that would have saved only 8 percent of its budget shortfall, Metra Directors have since been presented with a proposal that eliminates weekend service on three lines, including SWS, and eliminates weekday service between 179th Street and Manhattan on two trains. Under that plan, Southwest Service riders would be unfairly targeted, losing all six Saturday trains plus some weekday service while eight other lines would see no cuts whatsoever. Yet Metra has provided no justification for singling out Southwest Service for cuts that would save less than one-half of one percent of Metra’s budget deficit. In a presentation to Metra Directors in July, staffers listed several reasons not to eliminate weekend service system-wide, stating “regular weekend passengers would feel disenfranchised,” while “savings would be minimal” and the “ability to attract new riders through weekend service would be lost.” That certainly holds true for the Southwest Service line. “Given the importance of Southwest Service to communities in southwest Cook County and northeast Will County, I’m going to continue working to preserve weekend and weekday service,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I was pleased to be able to inaugurate weekend service in 2009, and I know it is appreciated, utilized, and supported by many people. This letter represents a strong show of support for the Southwest Service line, and I hope Metra listens carefully.” Signatories include Alsip Mayor Patrick Kitching, Burbank Mayor Harry Klein, Bridgeview Mayor Steven Landek, Chicago 13th Ward Ald. Marty Quinn, Chicago 18th Ward Ald. Lona Lane, Chicago Ridge Mayor Eugene Siegel, Evergreen Park Mayor James J. Sexton, Hickory Hills Mayor Michael Howley, Hometown Mayor Kevin Casey, Homer Glen Mayor James Daley Jr., Manhattan Mayor William A. Borgo, Chicago 23rd Ward Ald. Michael Zalewski, New Lenox Mayor Tim Baldermann, Oak Lawn Mayor Dave Heilmann, Orland Hills Mayor Kyle Hastings, Orland Park Mayor Daniel J. McLaughlin, Palos Heights Mayor Robert Straz, Palos Hills Mayor Gerald Bennett, Palos Park Mayor John Mahoney, Tinley Park Mayor Edward Zabrocki, and Worth Mayor Randy Keller. (September 14, 2011) ####
09.12.2011	In a show of bipartisan, bi-cameral cooperation, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Sen. Mark Kirk (R-IL), and Rep. Randy Hultgren (R-IL) called on Congress and the President to extend expiring surface transportation legislation and then pass a long-overdue, long-term surface transportation reauthorization bill that will create jobs and boost economic growth. Rep. Lipinski also called on President Obama to take the transportation funding that is part of his short-term jobs plan and devote it to a multi-year surface transportation bill that addresses the nation’s biggest transportation needs. “Our first order of business should be to extend the expiring surface transportation and aviation funding bills to avoid throwing hundreds of thousands of people out of work,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Once that’s done, we should immediately turn to passing the long-overdue, multi-year surface transportation bill, as I’ve been saying since 2009. Nothing creates jobs as quickly while providing lasting benefits for taxpayers as investing in transportation infrastructure. It’s absurd Washington has failed to act on a long-term bill while we’re in the midst of a jobs crisis. “This coming Friday, the 21st short-term extension of the FAA authorization will expire and at the end of the month the 7th short-term extension of the nation’s surface transportation law, known as SAFETEA-LU, will lapse. We have been limping along with temporary extensions of the FAA bill since 2007 and temporary extensions of the highway and transit bill since 2009. Our nation cannot afford to continue this Washington gridlock. It is costing us time and money. Lost time sitting in our cars. Lost time sitting on runways. And most importantly, lost jobs at a time we can least afford it.” A bill to temporarily extend aviation programs through January and highway and transit programs through March was introduced in the House late Friday. Last month the Federal Aviation Administration was shuttered for several weeks amid bickering over extending the program. Approximately 4,000 federal employees were furloughed and $300 million in revenue was lost. A highway and transit program shutdown, which would occur Sept. 30 without action, would be even more devastating, costing the federal government $100 million a day and putting 65,000 Illinois jobs at risk. President Obama’s jobs plan includes a one-time shot of $50 billion for transportation, or about 11 percent of the total. That is better than the 2009 stimulus – which Rep. Lipinski did not vote for in part because of its lack of transportation investment – but still inadequate. “I’m glad the President is finally focusing on jobs, and I’m also glad there are signs of a thaw in Washington that could enable bipartisan cooperation on getting Americans back to work,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But we’ve got to get past the whole stimulus mentality and stop drifting from one quick fix to the next without addressing fundamental issues. The President should put the $50 billion for road infrastructure in his jobs plan toward the overdue, long-term surface transportation bill. And Congress should do its job and pass the most robust and well-targeted long-term bill possible. Kicking the can down the road won’t cut it.” Lipinski, Kirk, and Hultgren were joined by representatives of the Illinois Road Builders, Local 150 Operating Engineers, Amalgamated Transit Union, Chicago Laborers District Council, the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Illinois Chamber of Commerce President Doug Whitley, and other transportation advocates. (September 12, 2011) ####
09.11.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski issued the following statement on the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11, 2001. He also attended ceremonies marking the occasion in La Grange, Western Springs, Oak Lawn, Palos Heights, Chicago Ridge, and Homer Glen. “Ten years ago, terrorists killed nearly 3,000 innocent Americans on a brilliant morning very much like the one we experienced today. Our enemies aimed to extinguish America’s light of liberty. Instead, we unified and bravely stood firm together in defense of freedom. We have sworn never to forget Sept. 11, 2001 and to remember freedom is not free. The countless ceremonies occurring today in the Third District, throughout Illinois, and across America represent yet another fulfillment of that pledge. Both the tragic loss of life and the heroism that marked that day live on in our individual and collective memory. As Lincoln said at Gettysburg, our words can hardly add to or detract from this occasion or the innumerable sacrifices that have been made to protect our freedom. But we can renew our vow to honor the fallen and complete the unfinished work of our nation. As they would have us do, and as we must for the sake of America and its future, we remain ever vigilant in our pursuit of those who would do us harm. Make no mistake: it was our freedom that was attacked on Sept. 11. But it is our love of freedom that unites us as Americans, that strengthens our resolve, and that inspires the brave men and women who are defending us at this very moment.” (September 11, 2001) ####
09.07.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement on President Obama’s upcoming jobs speech. “America faces two major tasks: overcoming the current lack of confidence and demand to create jobs quickly, and charting a path to sustained, long-term economic growth in the global economy. Earlier this summer, I released a five-point jobs plan that tackles both challenges. If we’re going to restore the prosperity of the American middle class, we need to strengthen manufacturing, level the international playing field, modernize our infrastructure, educate the workforce, and invest in innovation. “As called for under my plan, the first step Congress and the President should take is to pass the two-year-overdue surface transportation bill and the four-year-overdue Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. Not only would this quickly put hundreds of thousands of people to work, it would provide the public with a lasting benefit in the form of better roads, railways, airports, public transit, and other transportation infrastructure – all of which reduce delays and boost economic growth. Everyone knows we need the investment here in northeastern Illinois, which suffers from the worst congestion in America. “While we take steps to create jobs right now, we must also chart a path to long-term economic strength. That means no longer turning a blind eye to the offshoring of U.S. manufacturing jobs and striving to once again become the workshop of the world. That’s why this jobs plan includes my bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, which will produce a strategy with broad support for promoting job creation in the manufacturing sector. And that’s why it includes my Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 2722, which would boost manufacturing by helping to ensure the federal government buys products stamped ‘Made in U.S.A.’ whenever possible. “We also need to level the international playing field for American workers and companies. This entails standing up to China’s illegal trade practices and combating its currency manipulation, which if halted would create at least 500,000 jobs. We also need to stop passing job-killing NAFTA-style trade deals. “At the same time, we have to face up to the challenges we confront in an increasingly globalized economy. Students in other countries are outperforming their counterparts in the U.S. in math and science while their governments pour money into advanced research and challenge America's leadership in technological innovation. As ranking member of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee, I helped write and pass the America COMPETES Act to improve math and science education and put us on a path to double investment in job-creating high-tech research. The federal government has a limited but critical role to play in education and innovation, and I continue to work to ensure it makes a positive contribution. “I’m looking forward to hearing directly from President Obama on Thursday about his plan for getting Americans back to work. A number of proposals have been floated in recent days and discussed in general terms, and I’m eager for specifics. I strongly believe there are issues on which both parties should be able to work together to ignite job growth. Very understandably, there is a lot of pessimism in America today, with polls showing that three quarters of the public believes the country is headed in the wrong direction. But just as America emerged even stronger from the depths of the Great Depression, I believe that if we take the right approach we will find our best days are still ahead of us.” For more on the Congressman’s jobs plan, visit http://www.lipinski.house.gov/uploads/JobsPlan11.pdf. (September 7, 2011) ####
09.02.2011	Southwest News-Herald By Congressman Dan Lipinski As an institution, Congress is almost never popular. But when the public’s approval of Congress reaches a record low, as it did this summer, it is a sign that something is seriously wrong. Americans are not just unhappy about the bad economy and the size of the national debt, they are frustrated with the way Congress is operating – or failing to operate. As a member of Congress, I am frustrated too. I have always believed that the job of a representative is to help make life better for his or her constituents and for the American people as a whole, both today and into the future. Doing so necessarily involves compromise, especially when we have divided partisan control of government, as we do now. Unfortunately, many members of Congress seem to have little appetite for compromise and little desire to accomplish anything other than stir up partisan passions. This may help some people get reelected, but it does nothing to help most Americans. At the Republican presidential debate in Iowa, one of the candidates was criticized for having a record lacking in accomplishments. The candidate’s response was something like this – “I fought against X, Y, and Z.” I am not seeking here to single out one politician or one party, but watching the debate on TV, I found myself thinking, “It’s no wonder everyone is upset with Congress!” Opposing policies one believes are wrong for our country is part of the job of a representative. But when elected officials start to think that saying “no” is the same thing as actually getting something constructive done, we are in trouble. As someone once said – anyone can tear down a barn, but it takes a carpenter to build one. What Americans want are real achievements that improve life for them and their children. Instead they get bickering and inflammatory speeches that aim to drive us apart. Standing on principle should not mean ruling out compromise altogether. Nor should the fact that one believes someone is taking the wrong approach to fixing a problem lead one to deny the problem’s existence. In my own case, I did not support the stimulus bill that was passed in 2009 because I did not believe it would be effective in preventing a rise in unemployment. But I offered suggestions on better ways we could get Americans back to work. I also opposed the health care law that passed last year. But I have offered ways to fix its flaws, as well as alternatives to reform our health care system to make it work better for middle-class Americans. Today, about the only thing Congress seems capable of delivering is gridlock. It’s been nearly two years since the expiration of the last long-term bill to build and repair our road, rail, and transit infrastructure. And it’s been almost four years since the expiration of the last long-term bill to build and repair our aviation system. Frankly, this is absurd, given that passing these bills would put hundreds of thousands of people to work, relieve congestion, and boost long-term economic growth. America faces many challenges, first and foremost being a lack of jobs. That is why I continue to try to bring people together to find ways to make our country work better. It is not easy to do so in Washington today, but I know that is what my constituents and the American people want.
08.30.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced he has introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 2722, to create jobs by eliminating loopholes in existing Buy American laws so that taxpayer money buys products made in the United States, not in foreign countries. The bill is part of Lipinski’s job-creation plan, which he released last month. “For many years I have been calling on Washington to focus on job creation, and with the debt-ceiling fight behind us, there are no excuses left,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Loopholes in the Buy American Act and lax enforcement of the law by Washington bureaucrats are putting taxpayer dollars in the pockets of foreign workers at a time when 14 million Americans are unemployed. The Buy American Improvement Act will create tens of thousands of American jobs by making sure the federal government buys products stamped ‘Made in U.S.A.’ whenever possible. In recent years, more than 20 percent of Commerce Department purchases have come from abroad, the Defense Department has waived Buy American rules 44,000 times, and the Treasury Department couldn’t find a single domestic producer of office furniture. That is unacceptable, and the situation is probably even worse than we think because agency reporting is so poor.” A recent poll by the Alliance for American Manufacturing found that 80 percent of Americans favor Buy American policies and a large majority believes Washington is not doing enough to support American manufacturing. Yet Americans’ tax dollars continue to be sent abroad, with one of the latest examples being The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, one of the most expensive structures ever built, which is being fabricated in China and shipped to California. The Buy American Improvement Act bans practices used by federal agencies to skirt Buy American requirements, such as segmenting projects so that they do not meet the minimum dollar amount at which the rules apply – as Congressman Lipinski found the Census Bureau did last year. It also restores the definition of an American-made product to one that contains at least 75 percent domestic content, up from 50 percent. In addition to tightening waiver requirements to prevent the purchase of foreign goods, it requires better reporting by agencies to make sure they are complying with the law. “Passage of the Buy American Improvement Act would be an important step in the advancement of a robust and comprehensive manufacturing strategy, which will enhance the ability of our manufacturing companies and their workers to compete both here at home and globally,” said Scott Boos, Deputy Director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “We thank Rep. Lipinski for his efforts and for standing up for American companies and their workers.” H.R. 2722 would also prohibit counting components not available domestically as American-made; require the Office of Federal Procurement Policy to clarify when compliance with the Buy American Act would be “inconsistent with the public interest,” and establishes that domestic job creation is in the public interest; eliminate the automatic exception to the Buy American Act for goods used abroad; require the Government Accountability Office to analyze agencies’ procurement reports; and require the act is applied in a manner consistent with America’s trade obligations. “We’ve had Buy American rules on the books for nearly eight decades – and for good reason,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Americans’ tax dollars ought to support American jobs. With this bill, I continue to fight for that principle.” The bill is endorsed by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the United Steelworkers, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the National Council of Textile Organizations, the Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition, the U.S. Industrial Fabrics Institute, the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, and the Alliance for American Manufacturing. (August 30, 2011) ###
08.30.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, toured Lewis University in Romeoville, meeting with Brother James Gaffney, President of the University, Provost Stephany Schlachter, and Chair of the Department of Aviation William Brogan, as well as students and other faculty. “As a former teacher, a member of the Transportation Committee, and a strong supporter of both higher education and Catholic schools, I greatly enjoyed this opportunity to sit down with Lewis University’s leadership and discuss the university’s strengths, goals, and needs. Lewis’s rich tradition, values-based curriculum, and diverse and unique programs have made it one of the region’s leading educational institutions. As Lewis celebrates its 80th anniversary, its 6,000 students can look to its history of continuous growth and innovation for evidence of what can be accomplished with vision and determination. I look forward to working with the university as it continues to expand and educate the next generation of America’s leaders. In many ways, the future prosperity of both northeastern Illinois and our nation depend on our educational system. That is why I have long helped to provide institutions of higher education such as Lewis University with the support they need to equip our young people to thrive in the increasingly competitive global economy. “As northeastern Illinois’ most senior member of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and a member of the Subcommittee on Aviation, I was especially pleased to be able to tour Lewis University Airport and the university’s aviation facilities, meeting with students and faculty. America’s aviation system faces a host of challenges, from security to on-time performance. Lewis’s aviation program is helping ensure we have the workforce we need to meet those challenges, and I applaud its efforts. As a member of the House Science, Space, & Technology Committee, and the ranking member on the Research and Science Education Subcommittee, I also took a keen interest in the research that aviation students and faculty are doing to test new, more environmentally friendly forms of aviation fuel. Lewis University Airport is a unique and strategic asset that has considerable potential to create jobs and drive economic development.” As chairman and currently as ranking member of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee, Congressman Lipinski has played a leading role in the effort to strengthen science, technology, engineering, and math education at the university level through the America COMPETES Act and its reauthorization. These measures included a wide range of initiatives to improve STEM education so that students are prepared for a world where the majority of the fastest-growing occupations require significant mathematics or science preparation. (August 30, 2011) ####
08.26.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) called on Congress to act quickly to pass a transportation reauthorization bill that would put hundreds of thousands of Americans to work building badly needed road and transit projects that will boost efficiency and future economic growth. While a robust, six-year bill that provides the certainty and funding levels needed for major projects would be best, a recently proposed bipartisan two-year bill would be a step in the right direction and is far better than the House Republican transportation bill, which cuts transportation funding by roughly a third. “Even before the last transportation bill expired in 2009, I was calling for passage of a new bill that would create jobs immediately, boost job creation in the future, and help relieve the congestion we face in northeastern Illinois,” Congressman Lipinski said. “While a six-year bill that increases funding has always been my preference, a two-year bill that at least maintains current funding levels would put people to work and help us build a safer, more efficient transportation network. The bottom line is that Congress and the White House should get behind a robust transportation bill as soon as possible. Frankly, this is something that should have been taken up two and a half years ago, but I am happy the President is calling for the bill’s passage now and the Senate appears ready to push at least a two-year bill.” Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and James Inhofe (R-OK) have released an outline of a bipartisan two-year, $109 billion bill that would maintain current transportation funding levels for the next two years without adding to the deficit by relying on the existing federal gas tax and by finding savings in other programs. By contrast, the House Republican bill would cut transportation funding by about a third over six years. As a proponent of public-private partnerships that can bolster private-sector investment in transportation, Congressman Lipinski is a strong supporter of the two-year bill’s expansion of theTransportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act(TIFIA). This program provides low-cost loans and loan guarantees tofinance major transportation projects. Interest in the program has far exceeded its meager funding, and the two-year bill would increase funding nearly tenfold to $1 billion, enabling projects worth many times that amount to move forward and create jobs. Roughly every six years, Congress passes a bill to reauthorize funding for transportation. The last such bill expired nearly two years ago, prior to which Congressman Lipinski helped pass a six-year reauthorization blueprint out of the Highway and Transit Subcommittee in June 2009. Unfortunately, at that time the White House and the Senate decided to delay consideration of the bill. “A transportation bill such as I am advocating would not be a new program or an emergency stimulus, but rather a regularly scheduled reauthorization of a program that has been limping along with temporary extensions,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this proposal and get Americans back to work while boosting our long-term competitiveness. We cannot afford a standoff like the one that recently led to the partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration. Nor can we afford to slash funding for our roads, public transit, railways, and bridges, which are desperately in need of improvement and repair.” ####
08.12.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined Cook County Commissioner Jeff Tobolski and other local officials in honoring more than a dozen local veterans with the Silver Star Service Banner. The ceremony, hosted by Commissioner Tobolski, took place in McCook. “We owe the freedoms we all enjoy and too often take for granted to our veterans and to those who are serving right now,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Just last week we received a terrible reminder of the risks that our troops take for us on a daily basis when a Chinook helicopter was shot down in Afghanistan, killing 30 brave members of our Armed Forces. Today, we are honoring all those who serve, but especially those who were wounded or injured while at war. It is our responsibility as a nation to see to it that everyone who fights for our country receives the care they deserve. After a decade at war, there are thousands more combat veterans whose bodies will forever bear witness to the sacrifices they have made. Our wounded warriors can never forget their service, and neither should we. It’s a great honor for me to be able to thank in person these veterans and honor the enormous contributions they have made to our country.” The Silver Star Service Banner is awarded by the Silver Star Families of America to members of the military who were wounded, injured, or became seriously ill while serving in a war zone. In 2004 the organization revived the tradition of using a silver star to represent a member of the Armed Forces wounded in combat. Friday’s recipients include veterans of the Afghanistan, Iraq, Vietnam, and Korean wars who represent the following cities and towns: Riverside, Berwyn, Franklin Park, Chicago, Burr Ridge, Westchester, La Grange, Frankfort, Forest Park, and Summit. Congressman Lipinski presented each veteran with a copy of a statement honoring their service that will be placed in the Congressional Record. ###
08.11.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) questioned Metra’s proposed service cuts and fare hikes, and called on the agency to fully explain its proposed changes, explore all cost-cutting options, and hold public meetings in affected communities before making any decisions that would impact the tens of thousands of daily Metra riders. Metra has stated it faces a budget deficit of $100 million due to falling sales tax revenues and expected higher fuel costs. "I want to express my concern over Metra’s proposed fare increases and service reductions," Congressman Lipinski said in a letter to Metra. "I believe the agency needs to do more to inform the public about why it believes fare increases and/or service cuts are necessary and how Metra came to its current service reduction proposal. "While Metra has said its proposal would minimize the impact on its customers, there are large disparities in the number of riders that would be affected on different lines and in the number of trains eliminated on different lines. Additional details and community meetings would help ensure that all options have been explored before any action is taken." Weekday service cuts would have a major impact on Third District residents who utilize the BNSF, Rock Island District, and SouthWest lines. Under Metra’s current proposal, the BNSF and Rock Island District lines would each see four fewer trains per weekday, and the number of weekday riders impacted on the Rock Island line is far higher than the number on any other line. In addition, SouthWest Service would see more trains cut than any other line in Metra’s system save one, and would entirely lose weekend service that Congressman Lipinski worked with Metra to establish more than two years ago. Yet the savings from the SouthWest line service cuts would be very small, amounting to far less than one percent of Metra’s total deficit. "While I recognize that harsh fiscal realities force difficult decisions, I urge Metra to provide more details, carefully weigh its alternatives and make sure it achieves efficiencies so it can select options that do the least harm to the public," Congressman Lipinski said. "A successful passenger rail system is critical for the Chicagoland economy, for jobs, and for relieving congestion on our overcrowded roads. I want to make sure Metra fully informs and listens carefully to the public before making any decisions about either service reductions or fare increases." ###
08.01.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted for the Budget Control Act, S. 365, a compromise agreement to cut the deficit and avoid a government default that would have damaged the fragile economy and hampered job creation. "For months I have said that both parties need to come together to do what is right for America – avoid a devastating default while reducing the deficit in a way that preserves essential investments for the middle class," Congressman Lipinski said. "Yesterday, with just 48 hours to spare before a default, a compromise was finally achieved. As with any compromise, this one is by no means perfect. My preference would have been for a bipartisan ‘grand bargain’ that paired spending cuts with the elimination of unjustifiable special-interest tax breaks and loopholes. Sadly, negotiations between President Obama and Speaker Boehner broke down before such an agreement could be reached. "Like many Americans, I was deeply frustrated by the posturing that occurred on both sides of the aisle and repeatedly derailed negotiations until the very last minute. If not for the continuing efforts to score political points, I believe we could have reached an agreement sooner, achieved a better outcome, and spent the past months focused on jobs rather than the debt ceiling. "Nevertheless, this bill does provide us with a step forward in putting our fiscal house in order. In May I voted against increasing the debt ceiling without significant deficit reduction. The bill I am voting for today will cap spending, cut the deficit by $917 billion over 10 years, and establish a mechanism for increasing the debt ceiling through 2012, thereby avoiding another impasse that destabilizes the economy and hurts struggling middle-class Americans. In addition, it establishes a bipartisan, bicameral committee to craft a bill cutting the deficit by an additional $1.5 trillion or more, with this bill coming directly to the floors of the House and Senate for a vote before the end of the year. If such a bill does not pass, at least $1.2 trillion in cuts to mandatory and discretionary spending will go into effect, thus guaranteeing that this bill cuts the deficit by at least $2.1 trillion in total. In addition, as a co-sponsor of legislation to amend the Constitution to require a balanced budget, I am pleased that this bill will force Congress to vote on such an amendment, which – if passed – would then be sent to the states for ratification, giving the American people a chance to make the final decision. "In casting my vote, I bore in mind that 14 million Americans are unemployed and job creation has slowed to a trickle. Given the fragile state of the economy, it would have been deeply irresponsible to either permit a government default or fail to address our overwhelming national debt, as each represents a grave threat to economic growth. "Today, our work is far from over, and more tough decisions await us – decisions that will once again require the two parties to cooperate for the good of our nation. It is one thing to avoid a catastrophe, and another thing to take positive steps to ignite sustained job growth. Going forward, both parties must set aside their differences and work together as Americans to promote economic growth and job creation. Recently, I issued a five-point plan to help put Americans back to work. I am hopeful that once this crisis is over, we can move on to implementing some of the proposals in my plan. I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get Americans back to work." ####
08.01.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) issued the following statement on the debt-ceiling proposal unveiled on Sunday: “I am hopeful that the compromise both sides were able to reach will resolve the impasse and uncertainty that has been weighing on our nation. From the beginning, I have stated that we need to cut the deficit while protecting the middle class and make sure our government can pay its bills. My focus now is on carefully studying the legislative language to make sure it does the right thing for the American people and will in fact accomplish what it is supposed to accomplish. In 2008 when I studied the Wall Street Bailout bill I found that it was filled with loopholes and I could not support it. It is unfortunate that it took so long to sit down to work out a compromise and we don't have much time to act. But as a legislator, I cannot vote on the basis of an outline, however compelling – I need to see the details and I am carefully studying them now.” (August 1, 2011) ####
07.30.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s debt-ceiling proposal because it effectively provides for a longer-term increase in the debt ceiling, thereby eliminating uncertainty, and lays the foundation for a bipartisan deal to avoid a damaging default. “This bill is not perfect, but it does represent a step in the right direction, and I believe it offers us a template for a final deal that will both cut the deficit while protecting the middle class and enable our government to meet its obligations,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The mechanism it creates for raising the debt ceiling will work better toward avoiding a recreation of the current crisis that destabilizes our economy in a matter of months, as could occur under the House Republicans’ bill. I am glad that in addition to reducing spending by $927 billion, not including reductions in war-related spending – slightly more than the House Republican bill, according to the independent Congressional Budget Office – it would establish a bipartisan committee to recommend further steps for reducing the national debt. Nonetheless, I am concerned that the committee could fail to reach agreement and help reestablish fiscal discipline unless we specify consequences that will force both sides to make difficult decisions for the good of our country. I remain hopeful that the Senate will improve upon this legislation and help develop a bipartisan agreement that enables us to avoid the worst-case scenario of a default that does grave damage to our fragile economy and struggling middle-class families.” (July 30, 2011) ####
07.29.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted against S. 627, a House Republican proposal that fails to deliver the bipartisan compromise needed to pass both houses of Congress and avert a default while lowering the deficit. “I continue to favor a bipartisan ‘grand bargain’ that would raise the debt ceiling, cut spending while protecting the middle class, and end tax breaks and loopholes that benefit only powerful special interests,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I am deeply disappointed that the two sides have abandoned such an approach, which could have resulted in a historic deficit reduction package, leaving us instead to find common ground between two competing plans that donot do as much to address the national debt. Unfortunately, as Republicans are well aware, S. 627 does not represent a compromise that can pass the Senate and thereby avoid a default. Rather than a compromise, it is a negotiating position. As it stands, time is running out for striking a deal to avoid what both sides agree cannot happen: a default that would endanger our economy at a time when 14 million Americans are unemployed and job creation has slowed to a trickle. Unless a compromise occurs, it is hardworking middle-class Americans who will pay the price.” (July 29, 2011) ####
07.28.2011	Southwest News-Herald July 28, 2011 By Congressman Dan Lipinski Job creation is our nation’s most pressing task and has long been my top priority. While cutting the deficit is also crucial, if we do not get Americans back to work we will not be able to balance the budget and build a brighter future. Today, 14 million Americans are out of work, another 8.5 million are underemployed, and there are five unemployed workers for every job opening. But no number can capture the terrible uncertainty and hardship borne by the jobless and their families. Yet Washington has done far too little to promote job creation. While Wall Street was bailed out after the financial crisis, middle-class Americans were left behind. I believe that in order to grow jobs, we must put the middle class first. Earlier this month, I released a five-point job creation plan that does exactly that. My plan strengthens manufacturing, levels the international playing field, modernizes our infrastructure, improves education and workforce training, and invests in cutting-edge research that will drive innovation and job growth. The loss of one-third of American manufacturing jobs over the last decade has taken a terrible toll on the middle class. My bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, will produce a strategy for promoting job creation in the manufacturing sector. And my Buy American Improvement Act will help manufacturers by making sure that the $530 billion the federal government spends annually on goods and services buys products stamped “Made in U.S.A.” whenever possible. Washington’s failure to defend American workers from unfair trade has cost countless jobs. My plan includes opposing job-killing NAFTA-style trade deals, stopping foreign companies from evading U.S. customs duties, and combating China’s currency manipulation, which if halted could create millions of jobs. Today, Chicagoland has the worst traffic congestion in the country, costing us billions in wasted time and fuel and hampering job creation. I strongly support passage of long overdue surface transportation and aviation funding bills to reduce congestion and put people to work immediately. I am also working to increase private investment in infrastructure, including through the CREATE rail modernization program, which is needed for 17,000 Chicagoland jobs. Among the CREATE projects I have helped secure funding for is the Englewood Flyover, which is set to break ground this year, creating 1,450 local jobs and paving the way for a reduction in delays on Metra’s Southwest Service line. The poor performance of U.S. students in math and science is a major obstacle to job creation in the 21st century. To field a workforce that is prepared to compete, I helped write and pass the bipartisan America COMPETES Act to improve science and math education through a host of new initiatives. In addition, my plan provides for tax credits, public-private partnerships, and other measures to improve education in these fields and increase the effectiveness of programs that provide the training needed for the jobs of today and the future. Over the years, the federal government’s investment in cutting-edge research has paid extraordinary dividends for our economy and job creation by contributing to a wide range of breakthrough technologies. To boost job-creating innovation, I helped write and pass legislation that puts us on a path to double investment in high-tech research and speeds the commercialization of researchers’ discoveries. And to help small businesses innovate, I voted to provide them with $12 billion in tax relief and increased access to credit. America’s economic troubles peaked in the recession that began in December 2007, but they did not begin there. In fact, the years prior to the downturn were marked by sluggish growth, stagnating incomes for the middle class, and the offshoring of jobs. A return to the pre-recession economy is not good enough. That is why my plan puts the middle class first and helps create jobs both now and for decades to come. For the complete plan, please visit www.lipinski.house.gov. http://www.swnewsherald.com/online_content/2011/07/072811ov_lip_jobs.php
07.27.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released the following statement regarding the ongoing negotiations over increasing the debt ceiling: “From the beginning, I have called for a bipartisan compromise to reduce the deficit and increase the debt ceiling. Unfortunately, the fact is that we now have less than a week left before the Aug. 2 deadline for averting a default. A default would likely have far-reaching, negative consequences for our still-fragile economy, and would especially hurt middle-class Americans who are continuing to struggle. “I am deeply disappointed that the two sides have abandoned efforts to strike a ‘grand bargain’ that pairs spending cuts and sensible revenue increases that do not harm the middle class in order to produce a historic deficit reduction package. Speaker Boehner had agreed with President Obama to take such an approach. Instead, we are now faced with competing plans that doless to address the national debtand do not have the support to pass both houses of Congress. I believe we should cut spending and close unjustifiable tax loopholes that benefit only powerful special interests to reduce future deficits, and I still hope an agreement can be reached to do this. “But if we cannot reach such an agreement, I believe our best opportunity for an acceptable compromise would be to combine Senate Majority Leader Reid’s deficit-cutting plan with a “clean” balanced budget amendment, such as the bipartisan amendment I introduced along with Rep. Justin Amash (MI). Passage of a balanced budget amendment has been long sought, and this compromise would for the first time send such an amendment to the states for ratification, giving the American people their say on whether a balanced budget amendment should be added to the Constitution. In keeping with the Reid plan, the debt ceiling would be increased through early 2013, there would be significant budget cuts, and a bipartisan, bicameral committee would be established to propose additional cuts. I have talked to colleagues on both sides of the aisle who indicated they would be receptive to this proposal. “Under this compromise, both sides would achieve some of their goals, but neither party would achieve everything it had hoped for. It is by no means a perfect outcome, and it is certainly not the deal I would prefer. But it is the very nature of compromise that no one will be entirely satisfied. Moreover, it is clear that a deal must be reached, and soon, to avoid the worst-case scenario of a default, which both sides agree cannot be allowed to occur.” (July 27, 2011) ####
07.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2011 passed the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, paving the way for consideration on the House floor. Introduced by Congressmen Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Michael McCaul (R-TX), H.R. 2096 takes an essential step to secure our federal computer networks from espionage and our critical infrastructure from destruction. Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) has introduced companion legislation. “Every passing day brings fresh evidence of the serious threat that cybercrime poses to individuals, families, businesses, government, and our national security,” said Congressman Lipinski, the Research and Science Education Subcommittee Ranking Member, who introduced the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act in the 111th Congress. “From breaches at financial, consumer, and computer security companies to the most damaging cyber attack on our military to date, this year has brought story after story that underlines the urgency of combating cybercrime. The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act will help ensure we have the highly skilled people and the cutting-edge research and technologies we need to protect not only our critical infrastructure and federal and military computer networks, but also the general public, which increasingly relies on the internet. It has been more than a year since the House passed this bill by an overwhelming margin, and in that time cybercrime has only gotten worse. I am hopeful that Congress will recognize that reality and pass this bill as soon as possible." The Act will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build our American cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily. In the 111th Congress, the bill passed the House by a vote of 422-5. “The cyber threat is real and it’s here now. Domestic cyber threats are increasing at an alarming rate,” said Rep. McCaul, who co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, which presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency to President Obama detailing recommendations for securing the country’s government networks and critical infrastructure. “All of our critical infrastructure is tied to cyber networks, whether it be our utilities, power grids, financial institutions, or air traffic control system. Virtually every sector is vulnerable. I hope as with 9/11 we don’t turn a blind eye and have a denial of service attack before we address this issue.” “Importantly, this bill seeks to enhance U.S. economic and national security without layering prescriptive regulations on U.S. businesses,” said R. Bruce Josten with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which urges passage of the legislation. The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act incorporates several key recommendations of the CSIS Commission report. Improves Coordination in government: Gives the National Institute of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop checklists for agencies to follow. Improves Coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development. Improves R&D: Establishes Cybersecurity research and development grant programs. Improves quality of cyber professionals: Creates scholarship programs at the National Science Foundation that can be repaid with federal service. Requires the President to conduct an assessment of cybersecurity workforce needs across the Federal government. H.R. 2096 is fiscally responsible. It is intended to work within the boundaries of funds already authorized and appropriated to the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. Other attacks are believed to have been attempts to shut down federal networks and cause harm. (July 21, 2011) ####
07.19.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted against H.R. 2560, a Republican spending bill making extreme budget cuts that would hurt the middle class, seniors, and job creation while protecting special interest tax loopholes. Lipinski called for Congress to pass a bipartisan agreement to reduce the deficit and ensure the government can meet its financial obligations. “I have repeatedly called for a responsible deficit reduction plan to accompany an increase in the debt ceiling,” Congressman Lipinski said. “In May, I voted against a bill that would have raised the debt limit without making any spending cuts. In addition, I have repeatedly voted against irresponsible spending and have supported cuts in spending to reduce the deficit. But I cannot support an extreme proposal such as this bill that would slash support for working families, cost American jobs, and sharply raise costs for seniors on Medicare. H.R. 2560 would result in even deeper cuts to critical programs than the budget passed by the Republicans earlier this year. By taking the time today to vote on a bill that can never pass the Senate, House Republicans are refusing to acknowledge the reality that addressing America’s debt problem requires both parties to work together to craft a compromise that can pass both the House and the Senate and be signed into law by the President. As someone who believes it is critical that Congress and the American people are given ample time to study major legislation, I also wish to register my objection to the fact that a bill this consequential was called to the floor just four days after it was introduced, without a single hearing ever having been held on it. “As part of my commitment to reining in spending, I am cosponsoring legislation to add an amendment to the Constitution requiring a balanced budget. While H.R. 2560 calls for a balanced budget amendment, the type of amendment it envisions is extremely problematic. In particular, it makes it extraordinarily difficult to close unjustified and unaffordable tax loopholes that benefit powerful special interests. In addition, it takes the unprecedented step of arbitrarily dictating spending levels to Congress and the American people. “At this late date, with the August 2 deadline for a resolution to the debt ceiling issue looming, we cannot afford political gamesmanship that drives us apart rather than bringing us together. Almost two weeks ago, we learned that the economy created just 18,000 jobs in June. Given that we need to create 12 million jobs to return to pre-recession employment levels, that should serve as a wake up call for Washington. If we’re going to solve America’s fiscal problems and get people back to work, we need to stop the bickering, end the gridlock, and find common ground. I have offered a five-point jobs plan to do just that.” Congressman Lipinski has been working to reduce deficits and prevent or eliminate spending the American people cannot afford. In April, he voted for the bipartisan budget compromise to prevent a government shutdown and reduce spending by approximately $38 billion. He also voted for all three short-term budget extensions, which together reduced spending by $12 billion. In December, he voted to trim spending by $40 billion compared to the President’s budget request. In addition, Lipinski did not vote for the $1 trillion health care law, the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, or the poorly designed $862 billion stimulus bill. (July 19, 2011) ####
07.18.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) called on the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to reconsider its decision to prevent implementation of bipartisan Illinois reforms that would stop Medicaid fraud. These reforms would save taxpayer dollars and strengthen Medicaid by ensuring only eligible individuals are accepted into the program. “At a time when everyone is searching for ways to reduce budget deficits, preventing Medicaid fraud is something we should all be able to agree on,” Congressman Lipinski said. “These reforms passed the Illinois General Assembly with overwhelming support from members of both parties and were signed by Gov. Pat Quinn. They represent a commonsense approach to stopping fraud without erecting unfair barriers to access for those in need of help. CMS should reconsider its decision and help Illinois to save taxpayer money and ensure Medicaid’s financial viability going forward.” At issue is an Illinois law that would require Medicaid beneficiaries to prove they meet existing income requirements with a full month’s paystub and to provide documentation, such as a utility bill, showing they are state residents. CMS determined that under the health care law passed by Congress last year, these measures are prohibited because they would restrict eligibility. But the reforms clearly would not change eligibility requirements, only assure that existing requirements are adhered to. As Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services Director Julie Hamos stated in a letter to CMS, “It is the state’s intention to ensure program integrity, not to make it more difficult to become eligible for the programs.” “The decision by CMS to prevent wise reforms is yet another unfortunate consequence of the deeply flawed health care law, which I voted against last year,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Nevertheless, I believe it is within the agency’s powers to correct its ruling and help Illinois to take a major step toward preventing unnecessary spending while ensuring that we can continue to provide needed health care for some of our state’s most vulnerable residents, including the many seniors and disabled individuals who depend on Medicaid.” (July 18, 2011) ###
07.12.2011	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) testified before the U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee today on the need for a National Manufacturing Strategy and how better workforce education and training will help put more Americans to work in manufacturing. Congressman Lipinski’s testimony was part of the JEC’s on-going series of hearings on manufacturing in the United States. “While some believe America can no longer compete in manufacturing, I say robust job creation can and must come from manufacturing – from what we think of as traditional manufacturing, such as Northstar Aerospace in Bedford Park, Illinois that makes parts for the Apache helicopter, to Advanced Diamond Technologies in Romeoville, Illinois that makes coatings for artificial heart valves,” Congressman Lipinski said in his testimony. “Manufacturing in all its forms is critical for America’s economic future and for our national defense. But many manufacturers say that they are having a difficult time finding skilled workers to fill positions. To address this, Congressman Lipinski called for a two-pronged approach: one that is focused on improving our K-12 education system so that students have the necessary basic skills for the jobs of today and tomorrow, and the other focused on post-secondary training and retraining to improve the skill sets of workers. In addition to these initiatives, in his testimony Congressman Lipinski also discussed how a national manufacturing strategy could help strengthen America’s manufacturing sector and put more Americans to work. Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, which passed the House last year with strong bi-partisan support, would require implementation of such a strategy in the United States. “If we do not make a concerted effort to produce the workforce needed by manufacturers then it will mean nothing less than giving up on much of the middle class, throwing in the towel on “Made in the USA”, and accepting that everything we buy – even equipment needed for national security – will be made somewhere else,” Congressman Lipinski said. “We cannot allow this to happen.” Click here to read Congressman Lipinski’s full testimony before the Joint Economic Committee. (July 12, 2011) ####
07.08.2011	Last night, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) worked to guarantee that the storage of classified Department of Defense data used in the United States will not be transferred to foreign countries. During floor debate, Lipinski received assurances from Defense Appropriations Chairman Bill Young (R-FL) and Ranking Member Norm Dicks (D-WA) that they will work to make sure that national security and American jobs are protected by preventing the offshoring of classified data storage. “With the rise of cloud computing, which allows information to be stored on servers throughout the world, keeping critical defense data under the protection of American law and American citizens on American soil is just common sense for the protection of national security and jobs,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The Department of Defense is the world’s largest target for cyber attacks. Operating data centers in America will make it easier to control access to vital information, and make it harder for foreign operatives to steal things like nuclear secrets, weapons systems designs, and battle plans.” During a colloquy, which is a formal dialogue between members during floor debate, Congressman Lipinski was ensured by Chairman Young and Ranking Member Dicks that they will work together in drafting data storage restrictions that address offshoring concerns without limiting the Department of Defense’s operational ability. “This proposal does not lock in current providers or lock out anyone else; it does not stop the Department of Defense from moving to cloud computing systems,” Lipinski said. “Nor will this impact classified data that is used at locations abroad. It is only intended to make sure that classified, sensitive information remains safe. Unnecessarily storing these secrets in another country only adds another risk that this information could be stolen, damaging national security and potentially harming our troops.” In addition to protecting national security, Congressman Lipinski’s proposal will also protect American jobs by supporting the construction, operation, and maintenance of data centers here in the United States. “The federal government should be doing everything practicable to spend taxpayer money where it puts Americans to work,” Congressman Lipinski said. “During these times of terribly high unemployment it is especially important that we keep these IT jobs here in America.” (July 8, 2011) ####
07.08.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski issued the following statement on the June jobs report: “Coming on the heels of the weak job growth in May, the June jobs report shows how urgent it is that we stop the bickering, end the gridlock, and take action to help get Americans back to work. My top priority has long been job creation, and this week I issued a five-point plan for creating jobs both immediately and over the long term. My plan puts the middle class first by strengthening manufacturing, modernizing our infrastructure, improving education and workforce training, leveling the international playing field, and investing in innovation.” To read the press release on Rep. Lipinski’s jobs plan, click here. To read the full jobs plan, click here. (July 8, 2011) ####
07.07.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement regarding the release of the outline of House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica’s six-year surface transportation reauthorization bill: “This morning, Chairman Mica unveiled a comprehensive surface transportation authorization bill that will set the framework for funding America’s road, bridge, transit, and rail projects over the next six years. “As northern Illinois’ most senior member of the Committee, I have long called for a robust, multi-year transportation reauthorization that will put people back to work immediately and ensure both northeastern Illinois and America remains competitive in the global marketplace. In 2009 I was proud to help author and pass a $500 billion surface transportation blueprint through the Highways and Transit Subcommittee that would help meet those objectives. Unfortunately, we were not able to get that bill enacted. Today, we are looking at a bill that would provide only $230 billion in federal investment over six years. This represents at least a 30 percent cut in what we need simply to maintain existing programs. A reduction of this magnitude would clearly have serious consequences for Illinois and the nation. “We must do everything possible to find additional sources of revenue to fund America’s infrastructure needs. Akey but underutilized component to funding transportation projects is private sector investment, and I’ve proposed that creating a national infrastructure bank and enhancing existing surface transportation financing programs, particularly TIFIA and RRIF, will attract additional private sector money that will increase the pool of funding available for certain transportation projects. “I’m pleased to see Chairman Mica is seeking to leverage private sector investment with the inclusion of provisions in this bill that may better encourage state infrastructure banks and provide additional funding for TIFIA to help meet the existing demand for low interest loans for surface transportation projects. I also look forward to examining the rail title of the legislation, which presents an opportunity to streamline the RRIF loan application process and encourage greater private rail participation in the program. These are common sense steps I have called for that will greatly benefit any future surface transportation bill. “At the same time, teaming up with the private sector can only provide a portion of the funding necessary. Based on my conversations with stakeholders and the funding levels provided, I remain deeply concerned about the amount of public investment in the proposal put forward today. I understand that Chairman Mica is under tremendous constraints based on the budget plan passed by the Republican majority in the House. But we must find a way to do more, because America cannot afford to continue to neglect our transportation infrastructure. Doing so will not only mean lost time and money for all American commuters, but it will hurt American economic growth because of the inefficiencies in transporting goods. Americans need jobs, and a robust surface transportation infrastructure bill can help get more Americans to work. “I look forward to reviewing the bill in its entirety and engaging my colleagues in a serious conversation about how we can generate the funding levels necessary to create good paying jobs today and provide for the economic prosperity of our future.” (July 7, 2011) ####
06.24.2011	To read Congressman Lipinski's plan, click here. Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) released his plan to get Americans back to work and create good-paying jobs by strengthening manufacturing, modernizing our infrastructure, educating the workforce, leveling the international playing field, and investing in innovation. “While Wall Street was bailed out after the financial crash, most Americans were left behind,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Unemployment, and underemployment, remain unacceptably high and job growth has been far too slow. That is why my top priority has been and continues to be getting Americans back to work. To accomplish that I developed this five-point plan which builds on the successes I have had in Congress and maintains my longstanding efforts on behalf of American workers. It is time Washington stands up for the middle class and gets America back to work.” Rep. Lipinski’s plan will: Strengthen Manufacturing – The loss of one-third of all American manufacturing jobs over the last decade has taken a terrible toll on the middle class. Rep. Lipinski has reintroduced his National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, to produce a strategy with broad support for creating good-paying jobs in the manufacturing sector. This bill passed the House last year with overwhelming bipartisan support. He is also reintroducing his Buy American Improvement Act to ensure that the $530 billion the federal government spends annually on goods and services buys products stamped “Made in the U.S.A.” In addition, Lipinski’s manufacturing agenda includes legislation authorizing high-tech manufacturing research and establishing loan guarantees for manufacturing innovators. Level the International Playing Field – Washington’s failure to defend American workers from unfair trade has cost countless jobs. Rep. Lipinski continues to advocate for legislation to combat China’s currency manipulation, which if halted could create between 500,000 and 2.25 million jobs, according to experts. He has repeatedly urged direct action to halt unfair trade practices by China, including its illegal subsidies for its clean-energy manufacturers and its dumping of tires onto the U.S. market. He is also working to stop foreign companies guilty of trade-law violations from avoiding U.S. customs duties and is standing up for fair trade by opposing job-killing NAFTA-style trade deals. Modernize our Infrastructure – Deteriorating infrastructure plagues our entire nation. Northeastern Illinois has the worst congestion in the country, threatening our status as America’s transportation hub, costing us billions, and hurting job creation. Rep. Lipinski has strongly supported passage of robust and long overdue surface transportation and aviation funding bills to reduce congestion, put people to work, and support long-term job growth. He is also working to increase private investment in infrastructure, including through the NextGen plan to reduce costly aviation delays by switching to a satellite-based air traffic control system, and through the CREATE rail modernization program, which is needed for 17,000 local jobs and $2 billion in economic production. Just last week, Rep. Lipinski announced work is set to begin on two CREATE projects that between them will create 1,750 jobs – the Englewood Flyover and the 71st Street underpass in Bridgeview near Toyota Park. Educate the Workforce – The poor performance of U.S. students in math and science is a major obstacle to job creation in the 21st Century global economy. To field a workforce that is prepared to compete, America must improve science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education, as well as workforce training programs. As a senior member of the House Science, Space & Technology Committee, Rep. Lipinski helped write and pass the bipartisan America COMPETES Act and its reauthorization to improve STEM education and technology job creation through a host of new initiatives. The Congressman supports tax credits, public-private partnerships, and other methods for improving STEM education, as well as targeting existing funding for training programs that teach in-demand technical skills to get laid-off workers back to work. Invest in Innovation – The federal government’s investment in cutting-edge research has paid extraordinary dividends for our economy and jobs, contributing to such breakthrough developments as the internet; Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) technology; hybrid vehicles; and Computer-Aided Design, which helped revolutionize manufacturing and information technology. Rep. Lipinski has been a leader in the effort to ensure America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world, helping to write and pass legislation that puts us on a path to double investment in high-tech research and speeds the commercialization of researchers’ discoveries to help create jobs. He has also been a leading supporter of R&D in areas such as nanotechnology, which has extraordinary potential to create jobs and transform industries ranging from medicine to clean energy. To help small businesses innovate, he has helped provide them with $12 billion in tax relief and increased access to credit and has been fighting to reauthorize the Small Business Innovation Research program to support R&D done by small businesses. “My efforts in these five areas are helping to create good jobs in the Third District and across the country, but we have a long way to go,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I’m going to continue the fight to implement these proposals so we can assure a brighter future for the middle class by helping businesses create jobs here at home.” ####
06.24.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding his vote for H.R. 2278 to allow limited participation by the United States in the NATO-led operation in Libya. The permitted participation includes non-combat activities such as intelligence, search and rescue, refueling, and surveillance. “From the beginning, America’s goals, strategy, and endgame in Libya have been murky,” Congressman Lipinski said. “After a decade of warfare in the Middle East, I believe it is critical that we exercise caution and consideration before becoming too involved in another potentially costly and protracted conflict. In casting this vote, I sought to convey to the President the message that Congress and the American people are uneasy with our involvement in Libya and do not feel they have been adequately consulted or informed. I do not believe anyone has a strong sense of what our exit plan is, nor what our ultimate strategic objectives are in this conflict. It is always much more easy to get involved in military action in a foreign country than it is to leave. “Previously, I voted to require the President to provide Congress with detailed information on our role in the conflict and the justification for his refusal to seek Congressional authorization. Unfortunately, the response that we received was less than adequate or persuasive. At the same time, I do not believe that we should precipitously withdraw from supporting NATO’s operations in Libya. To do so could embolden Qaddafi and other dictators around the world. To abandon our allies completely could undermine our ability to secure their cooperation in the future, damaging our interests and alliances at a time when our own military has been stretched thin and resources are limited. I do not expect that this bill will pass the Senate, but I voted for it because it is an important signal to the President that he must consult more closely with Congress and do more to keep the public informed regarding U.S. policy on Libya going forward.” (June 24, 2011) ###
06.24.2011	As a leading advocate of establishing industry, university, and government partnerships to enhance manufacturing innovation, competitiveness, and job creation, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today applauded President Obama’s launch of the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership. The AMP will bring together industry, universities, and the government to invest in developing innovative technologies that will enable American manufacturers to compete and win in the global economy. “This is precisely the type of initiative that I’ve successfully worked to establish, both through the America COMPETES Act, whose National Science Foundation title I drafted, and through the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, which I introduced and passed in the House last year,” Congressman Lipinski said. “It’s not enough that we invent new products in America – to create jobs, we also need to manufacture them here. Over the last decade, we’ve seen the terrible consequences for the middle class of Washington’s failure to develop a coordinated manufacturing policy that levels the playing field for this critical industry. The AMP is an important step toward revitalizing manufacturing and making sure it continues to build on its recent rebound. With countries around the world doing everything they can to give their manufacturers an edge, we must invest in the kind of research that has repeatedly led to breakthrough technologies and helped make our manufacturers the most productive and innovative in the world. I’m also glad to see that the AMP will focus on ensuring America maintains a strong manufacturing capability to independently equip its military.” As chairman of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee of the Science and Technology Committee, Congressman Lipinski helped write and pass into law last year the America COMPETES Act reauthorization, H.R. 5116. Congressman Lipinski included language in the law to create grants for universities to carry out research in transformative manufacturing technologies, including in robotics, nanomanufacturing, and advanced materials – all areas that are included in the AMP. The AMP also includes support for a program to increase small and medium-sized manufacturers’ access to powerful supercomputers and advanced software to enable them to conduct sophisticated modeling that increases innovation and ultimately creates jobs. Congressman Lipinski has been a strong supporter of efforts such as the Midwest Modeling and Simulation Consortium that help manufacturers improve their products and processes through high-performance computing. He also included language in the COMPETES Act to improve small manufacturers’ access to government supercomputers. In addition, the Congressman supported the addition of language to COMPETES requiring the establishment of a Committee on Technology to plan and coordinate federal programs and activities in advanced manufacturing research and development. “As I have always made clear, there are investments that we must continue to make if we want to create jobs and strengthen the middle class,” Lipinski said. “Investing in innovation is critical for our economy and our nation. The seeds of many of the technologies that we use every day were sown by investments in innovation such as those announced today. That is why I have been and will continue to be a strong supporter of essential, job-creating high-tech research.” (June 24, 2011) ###
06.20.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), House Speaker Michael Madigan, Bridgeview Mayor Steven Landek, and the CREATE partners broke ground on a $27 million underpass to take 71st Street under the IHB/CSX railroad tracks adjacent to Toyota Park. This project will create 290 jobs, eliminate long delays for drivers, enhance safety, and improve air quality. “Not only will this project create hundreds of jobs at a time when jobs are desperately needed, it will permanently eliminate delays and improve safety for the thousands of people that pass through this crossing on a daily basis,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I’m very pleased to have helped secure funding for the 71st Street underpass. It’s going to provide tremendous congestion relief for the residents of the Third District and Chicagoland.” “We have been waiting a long time for this underpass and are thrilled that construction is finally beginning,” Bridgeview Mayor Steven Landek said. “I want to thank Congressman Lipinski and Speaker Madigan for their efforts to end this bottleneck, which has hindered residents and businesses in Bridgeview and neighboring communities for years.” Eighty freight trains pass through the crossing daily, typically at speeds below 10 mph, resulting in frequent delays of up to 10 minutes for motorists, crashes involving vehicles and trains, and air pollution from long lines of idling vehicles. Currently, 4,400 vehicles use 71st Street daily, and that number is expected to rise to 7,000. In addition, on average 1,600 vehicles use 71st Street before and after Toyota Park events. The 71st Street underpass is part of the CREATE rail modernization program, which is untangling Chicagoland’s congested transportation system and creating jobs. Congressman Lipinski is a leading advocate for CREATE, having obtained the first $100 million in federal funding for the project in 2005. He led the Illinois Congressional delegation in supporting the State of Illinois’ TIGER grant application, which yielded $20 million in federal funding for the Bridgeview underpass and an additional $80 million for other CREATE projects throughout the Chicago region. Mark Hinsdale, CSX, commented, “This demonstrates why the State of Illinois, City of Chicago and the Class I railroads partnered on the CREATE Program. It’s a win-win for the public and our national transportation system.” A CSX Gen Set low-emissions locomotive was featured at the press conference. Initiated in 2003, the CREATE Program is a first-of-its-kind public-private partnership to address freight, commuter, and intercity passenger rail congestion in the Chicago area. The CREATE Partners include the U.S. Department of Transportation, Illinois Department of Transportation, Chicago Department of Transportation and the Association of American Railroads (AAR), representing BNSF, CN, Canadian Pacific, CSX, Norfolk Southern, Union Pacific, the switching railroads Belt Railway Company of Chicago and Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad, as well as Amtrak and Metra. The program includes 70 critically needed rail and highway infrastructure improvements in Northeastern Illinois, aimed at reducing congestion and improving the quality of life of area residents and increasing the efficiency of freight and passenger rail service throughout the region and across the United States. (June 20, 2011) ####
06.03.2011	Taking an essential first step to secure our federal computer networks from espionage and our critical infrastructure from destruction, Congressmen Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2011. Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) will introduce companion legislation. The Act will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build our American cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily. A similar bill passed the House of Representatives in 2010, by a vote of 422-5. “It’s been more than a year since the House passed this bill by an overwhelming margin,” said Rep. Lipinski, the Research and Science Education Subcommittee Ranking Member, who introduced the act in the 111th Congress. “Since then, the problem of cybercrime has only increased. In the past few months alone we’ve seen Sony’s PlayStation Network and its users’ data compromised; disturbing breaches at computer security, oil, and financial companies; and reports that hackers are increasingly targeting smartphones. Cybercrime evolves as quickly as technology itself – Congress should recognize that reality and pass the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act as soon as possible to prevent further losses to individuals, businesses, and the economy as a whole.” “All of our critical infrastructure is tied to cyber networks whether it be our utilities, power grids, financial institutions, or air traffic control system. Virtually every sector is vulnerable. I hope as with 9/11 we don’t turn a blind eye and have a denial of service attack before we address this issue,” said Rep. McCaul, who co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, which presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidencyto President Obama detailing recommendations for securing the country’s government networks and critical infrastructure. “As cyber crime becomes more advanced, our cyber cops must stay one step ahead of cybercriminals to prevent infiltration of our nation’s financial infrastructure,” said Senator Menendez. “We cannot allow security breaches to undermine our trust in the U.S. economy. That’s why I’m introducing this bill in the Senate and am working with my colleagues in the House to get this legislation passed so that we can prevent future cybersecurity breaches.” The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act incorporates several key recommendations of the CSIS Commission report. · Improves Coordination in government: Gives National Institute of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop checklists for agencies to follow. · Improves Coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development. · Improves R&D: Establishes Cybersecurity research and development grant programs. · Improves quality of cyber professionals: Creates scholarship programs at NSF that can be repaid with federal service. Requires the President to conduct an assessment of cybersecurity workforce needs across the Federal government. Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. Other attacks are believed to have been attempts to shut down federal networks and cause harm. (June 3, 2011) # # #
05.31.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted against a Republican bill that would increase the government’s debt limit without making any spending cuts or implementing any reforms to reduce future deficits. The legislation, H.R. 1954, was brought to the floor by the Republican majority to serve as a “political message” and was intended to fail. It failed by a vote of 97 to 318. “Congress should be focused on job creation and responsible deficit reduction, but today House Republicans took the unusual step of bringing to the floor legislation they strongly opposed and knew would fail,” Congressman Lipinski said. “As such, H.R. 1954 was a distraction from the real work that must be done to bring both sides together behind a bipartisan solution that pairs sensible spending reductions and reforms with an increase in the debt limit in order to assure a bright economic future for America. It was already clear that a majority of the House shares my conviction that we should work on getting the deficit under control as part of an increase in the debt ceiling. In April, the President publicly committed to bipartisan negotiations aimed at reducing future deficits prior to the Aug. 2 deadline for a vote on the debt ceiling, and Vice President Joe Biden and congressional negotiators are actively working on such an agreement. Congress should not waste time on purely political legislation and should instead pave the way for a bipartisan vote on the debt limit by first addressing the consequences of decades of excessive government borrowing.” Congressman Lipinski has been working to reduce deficits and prevent or eliminate spending the American people cannot afford. In April, he voted for the bipartisan budget compromise to prevent a government shutdown and reduce spending by approximately $38 billion while preserving investments in essential programs that promote job creation and aid the middle class. He also voted for all three short-term budget extensions, which together reduced spending by $12 billion and kept the government running while negotiations on a bill covering the rest of the fiscal year continued. In December, he voted to trim spending by $40 billion compared to the President’s budget request. In addition, Congressman Lipinski did not vote for the $1 trillion health care law, the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, or the poorly designed $862 billion stimulus bill. “My position on this issue has not changed,” Congressman Lipinski said. “All along I have called for a deficit reduction plan to accompany an increase in the debt ceiling. This spring I turned down a request to sign a letter calling for raising the debt ceiling without any deficit reduction plan. Prior to a vote on the debt limit, Congress should reduce spending while protecting critical investments and the middle class, so that our economy can continue to gain traction and create the jobs Americans need. The fact is that we have to make tough decisions and live within our means.” (May 31, 2011) ###
05.30.2011	On Monday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined veterans in Justice at Resurrection Cemetery, in Oak Lawn at the village’s Veterans Memorial, in La Grange at American Legion Post 1941, and in Orland Park at Village Hall to honor all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our nation. “Memorial Day is a day to commemorate the many thousands of brave men and women who have given their lives in defense of our freedom,” Congressman Lipinski said. “We must never forget how much we ask of our troops, and how much we owe them. In paying tribute to the heroism of those who have lost their lives in the service of our country, we also acknowledge all our veterans and all the men and women in uniform who are currently risking their lives for us around the globe. We must strive to always bear in mind the singular commitment of our troops. Not an hour passes without their facing situations of extraordinary difficulty and danger, far from their families. Not an hour passes without the father, mother, wife, husband, or child of a service member praying for their safe return. It is not just their lives that our troops sacrifice; it is the tranquility that their loved ones would have known had they chosen not to put themselves in harm’s way. Let us therefore remember not only the fallen, but also their families, both this Memorial Day and every day.” (May 30, 2011) ####
05.26.2011	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012, H.R. 1540, which includes Congressman Dan Lipinski’s amendment calling for the establishment of a national Korean War Museum in Chicago. “The Korean War is often referred to as ‘The Forgotten War,’ but the mark it left on those who served and on the history of America, Korea, and the world is indelible,” Congressman Lipinski (IL-3) said. “A group of dedicated individuals, led by Korean War veteran Denis Healy, have begun work on locating a Korean War National Museum in Chicago. Together with my colleague from Illinois, Rep. Peter Roskam, I introduced this amendment to support the effort to establish such a museum, which will educate the public about the Korean War, commemorate the sacrifices made by those who served, and celebrate the advances in freedom and democracy made by South Korea. The veterans of this important conflict deserve our recognition, honor, and appreciation. A national museum will ensure that what they accomplished will forever be remembered.” Some 36,574 Americans lost their lives in the Korean War between 1950 and 1953, making it the fifth-deadliest conflict in U.S. history. Of the approximately 5.7 million Americans who served during the war, 2.44 million are still living. Their efforts halted the spread of communism, making it possible for South Korea to grow into a free, stable, and prosperous democracy even as North Korea has remained one of the most backward and repressive countries on earth. Yet no official national museum exists to preserve the legacy of those who fought in Korea and to honor their service. Congressman Lipinski’s amendment puts Congress on record in support of establishing a national Korean War Museum in Chicago; commends those spearheading the effort to establish such a museum; and expresses support for increasing awareness of the sacrifices made by our troops in Korea. “Having recently joined the National Advisory Council of the Korean War National Museum, I was very pleased to offer this amendment and to see it pass, especially given that Memorial Day is just a few days away,” Congressman Lipinski said. “We owe it to all those who served in Korea to establish a national museum commemorating the war, and Chicago is the perfect place for it.” Korean War National Museum officials are currently seeking to open a temporary location in Chicago while they work to make a permanent museum a reality. A precursor to the museum, the Denis Healy Freedom Center, has been open in Springfield, Ill., since 2009 and features exhibits and a growing collection of artifacts. Click here to read a copy of Congressman Lipinski’s amendment. (May 26, 2011) ####
05.20.2011	Praising their exemplary records and their commitment to serve our nation, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) on Thursday congratulated Michael Rodden of La Grange on his appointment to the Air Force Academy, Collin Demski of Oak Lawn on his appointment to the Naval Academy, and Keith Miller of Brookfield on his appointment to West Point. All are top-ranked students and were nominated to their respective academies by Congressman Lipinski. “I am proud to have nominated these three outstanding young men for appointment to our military academies,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Our national security depends on the patriotism and readiness to serve of young people like Michael, Collin, and Keith.” “Their intelligence, outlook, and accomplishments leave me with no doubt that they have very bright futures ahead of them and will prove to be outstanding officers. Each is a credit to his family, his school, and his community, and it was my honor, privilege, and great pleasure to nominate them. The Third District can be proud of these three men.” Joining the Congressman in congratulating the appointees was Brookfield Mayor Michael J. Garvey. Congressman Lipinski is presently accepting nomination request letters from young persons in the 3rd Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies for the classes entering in the summer of 2012. The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard Academy admissions are based on a nationwide competition with no Congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not passed their 23rd birthday on July 1 of the year they would enter the academy; be a United States citizen; have graduated from high school; be unmarried; have taken the ACT and/or SAT; and meet the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred Academy. The selection of nominees is based upon a “whole person” evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January 2012, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. The deadline for completed files is Dec. 1, 2011. For more information, contact Lenore Goodfriend in Congressman Lipinski’s Oak Lawn office at (708) 424-0853. (May 20, 2011) ###
05.20.2011	Southwest News-Herald May 20, 2011 By Congressman Dan Lipinski American workers are the best in the world. For as long as I have represented the Third District, I have worked to make sure that trade occurs on a level playing field, creates American jobs, and benefits American workers and companies. My view is simple. I believe that in order to be truly free, trade must be truly fair. Free trade does not mean the freedom for countries to manipulate their currency to artificially lower the price of their exports. It does not mean the freedom to demand access to a company’s valuable intellectual property in return for opening markets. It does not mean the freedom to dump goods priced below the cost of production onto U.S. markets while establishing technical barriers to trade for American producers. And it does not mean the freedom to export unsafe products to unsuspecting consumers. Unfortunately, ever since the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement, we have seen a dramatic expansion of unfair trade that harms our country. Between 2000 and the onset of the recession, our trade deficit nearly doubled. Little wonder that millions of good-paying, middle-class manufacturing jobs vanished at the same time. Yet Congress likely will soon be asked to support a new free trade agreement with South Korea that fails to incorporate the painful lessons we have learned about the dangers of poorly crafted trade deals. Once again, we are faced with an agreement whose supporters claim it will create jobs. But the same people made the same claims about NAFTA and the inclusion of China in the World Trade Organization. Rather than creating jobs, this deal – originally drafted and agreed to by President Bush’s administration – will cost America jobs. It is a recipe for more offshoring. That may benefit a few multinational corporations bent on moving production overseas and taking advantage of tax loopholes, but it won’t aid most Americans or Third District residents. In fact, one study found the agreement could result in the loss of 159,000 U.S. jobs. The South Korea Free Trade Agreement would allow South Korean companies to assemble Chinese parts and export them to the U.S. on favorable terms, providing Chinese manufacturers with yet another unfair advantage. It opens the door to the importation of products made in North Korea, one of the world’s worst human-rights offenders. It creates obstacles for American companies seeking to hold South Korean corporations responsible for engaging in unfair trade. It does not address currency manipulation. And it fails on all these counts despite the fact that America had the upper hand in the negotiations, owing to its huge size and importance as an export market. To take just one example of the impact the proposed FTA would have, the government’s official evaluation found that Korean auto exports to the U.S. will increase by nearly five times more than American auto exports to Korea under the agreement. If this deal does not improve dramatically, I will not support it. Just as I did when I voted against the Wall Street bailout, I will cast my vote based on what is best for the middle-class and Third District residents, not special interests. While I don’t believe in protectionism that props up failing industries, delays the inevitable, and hurts both workers and consumers, I do believe in protecting our country and my constituents against unfair trade that destroys jobs. American workers remain the most innovative, productive, and resilient in the world, able to compete and win against those in any country. But the competition must occur on a level playing field, and our government must fight to make sure that it does. We cannot afford to repeat the mistakes and job losses of the last decade.
05.04.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined House Democratic leaders in unveiling the “Make It In America” agenda for the 112th Congress, a centerpiece of which is his bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366. This bill passed the House last year by an overwhelming margin, 379-38, and again has a strongly bipartisan list of cosponsors. It requires the development of a national manufacturing strategy in order to boost traditional and high-tech manufacturing, spur American job growth, strengthen the middle class, and enhance national security. “Right now, there’s no national strategy for growing American manufacturing and reversing the offshoring that has been killing the middle class and hurting our national security,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The National Manufacturing Strategy Act will fill that void by requiring the development of a detailed plan for restoring American manufacturing as the world leader and establishing accountability for its implementation. Over the last decade, we lost one-third of our manufacturing jobs – 5.5 million jobs – including many in the Third District, where small and medium-sized manufacturers continue to employ thousands of my constituents. Another decade like the one our manufacturers just endured would be a disaster for the middle class, the economy, and our national security, which depends on our ability to independently equip our military. Americans understand that for the sake of the middle class and national security, we cannot allow this to continue. That is why 78% of Americans support the implementation of a manufacturing strategy.” Congressman Lipinski has been a strong supporter of the “Make It In America” agenda and the various pieces of legislation it includes, which aim to support job creation by encouraging domestic manufacturing and innovation. He is a co-author of the America COMPETES Act, which passed Congress last year and boosts high-tech manufacturing through research and loan guarantees. He also helped pass the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act in the House to make it easier to crack down on China’s currency manipulation. And he helped lead passage of H.R. 6160 to reduce America’s dependence on China for rare earth materials, which are critical for a wide range of manufactured goods and defense products. To ensure widespread buy-in from both business and government, the Congressman’s bill requires the president to establish a Manufacturing Strategy Board of federal officials, two state governors from different parties, and private-sector manufacturing leaders. Every four years, the board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the manufacturing sector covering matters ranging from financing to trade to the defense industrial base. Based on this analysis and ample public input, the board will develop a strategy that includes specific recommendations to the President, Congress, and industry for bolstering American manufacturing. To make sure we stay the course, the board will assess the implementation of its recommendations annually, and the GAO will conduct a separate review. “There’s no doubt in my mind that American manufacturers can compete with any in the world, and that we can continue to ‘Make It In America,’” Congressman Lipinski said. “But at a time when other countries are focused on tilting the playing field to benefit their own manufacturers, we need a strategy that guides our efforts and elevates manufacturing to the top of our nation’s agenda and keeps it there. H.R. 1366 will give us that strategy, and I’m going to continue to work to see it signed into law.” (May 4, 2011) ####
05.04.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) submitted the following statement for the record during general debate on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of his National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366: Mr. Speaker, While today our nation continues to confront many challenges, I persist in believing that the primary challenge we must address is job creation and economic growth. So rather than considering more bills to chip away at minor provisions of the Affordable Care Act, we should be debating bills that will stimulate our economy, improve our competitiveness, and help people get back to work. For that reason, I urge my colleagues to oppose the previous question, and allow the House of Representatives to debate the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 1366, a bipartisan bill which I was proud to reintroduce earlier this year. A national manufacturing strategy would help produce more private sector jobs and shore-up America's defense capabilities. My legislation would require the Administration to collaborate with the private sector to conduct a thorough analysis of the various factors that affect American manufacturing, consider the multitude of current government programs related to manufacturing, and identify goals and recommendations for federal, State, local and private sector entities to pursue in order to achieve the greatest economic opportunity for manufacturers in America. The strategy’s implementation would be assessed annually and the strategy as a whole would have to be revisited every four years, so that we can reassess the global market and technological development, and plot a revised framework. Why is a national manufacturing strategy necessary? Because the federal government has significant and broad influence on the domestic environment for manufacturing and our national security, energy, and transportation systems all rely on our manufacturing base. Yet there is little to unify the various programs and policies that exist throughout the government that impact our domestic manufacturing base and its place in world markets. Unfortunately, for too long the government’s promotion of manufacturing has been ad hoc, stovepiped and too reactive to economic downturns. Instead, we need to be proactive, organized across the government, and encouraging of those who want to pursue emerging markets and competitive technologies. Furthermore, it is a matter of international competitiveness for our nation. A number of our economic competitors — including Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, India, Singapore, South Africa, Russia, and the United Kingdom, among others—have developed and implemented national manufacturing strategies. As a recent report from the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, entitled “The Case for a National Manufacturing Strategy”, stated: “But most U.S. manufacturers, small or large, cannot thrive solely on their own; they need to operate in an environment grounded in smart economic and innovation-supporting policies … Unfortunately, while many other nations – and indeed many U.S. states – are taking steps to boost the competitiveness of their manufacturing industries, the United States lacks a clear, coherent strategy to bolster the competitiveness of manufacturing firms of all sizes and all sectors, a shortcoming that must be rectified if the United States hopes to ‘win the future’ in manufacturing.” This legislation enjoys widespread, bipartisan support from a range of industrial sectors, labor, and the public. This bill passed the House last year by an overwhelming vote of 379 – 38, demonstrating that we have had the commitment to focus on the jobs and economy – a mission that we should be working to restore. This year, my legislation has also garnered the support of a bipartisan group of 26 of our colleagues who have cosponsored the bill, as well as the endorsement by the American Iron and Steel Institute, the Association of Manufacturing Technology, the AFL-CIO, the Precision Metalforming Association and the National Tooling & Machining Association. Finally, a bipartisan poll conducted last year for the Alliance for American Manufacturing found that 78 percent favor “a national manufacturing strategy aimed at getting economic, tax, labor, and trade policies working together,” and 90 percent want some action to revitalize manufacturing. I urge my colleagues in the House to join me in calling for action on jobs and the economy. While we have witnessed some positive economic progress, we still have a long way to go in getting Americans back to work. We cannot continue to sit idly as our manufacturing base and the quality, well-paying jobs depart for China, India or elsewhere. We must take action to provide a competitive and focused foundation for those who will continue to make it in America, and we can do so now by passing the National Manufacturing Strategy Act. (May 4, 2011) ####
04.15.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) applauded the repeal of a portion of the new health care law that would have hurt job creation by dramatically increasing a paperwork requirement for small businesses. H.R. 4 eliminates a requirement that businesses file an IRS 1099 form for every vendor paid over $600. Congressman Lipinski cosponsored and voted for H.R. 4 and the President signed it Thursday. "Right now it's tax season," Congressman Lipinski said. "Talk to any small business owner and they'll tell you they can't afford to spend any more time than they already do complying with the tax code. Time spent on IRS paperwork is time that can't be spent pursuing the growth and innovation that create the good jobs America needs. I'm proud to have cosponsored H.R. 4 and I'm going to continue working to fix the problem-plagued health care law and get our economy moving." Congressman Lipinski voted against the health care law last year. In addition to supporting H.R. 4, he recently helped introduce H.R. 1173 to eliminate a portion of the health care law, the CLASS Act, that creates a long-term care insurance program experts agree is fiscally unsustainable. "Small businesses create nearly two-thirds of new jobs in America," Congressman Lipinski said. "But across the Third District, they are more than a critical source of jobs. They are pillars of the community. For the last several years, small business owners have worked long hours and made many sacrifices to keep their businesses going in the midst of a brutal downturn. The last thing we should be doing is making life more difficult for them. With the passage of H.R. 4, we recognized the extraordinary contribution small businesses make to our economy and our country and the need to help them create jobs." Congressman Lipinski's previous work to help small businesses includes helping to pass the Small Business Jobs Act, H.R. 5297, which is designed to create jobs by providing $12 billion in tax relief and increased access to credit for small businesses. (April 15, 2011) ####
04.14.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for H.R. 1473 to keep the government running through the end of September, reduce the deficit by cutting spending by approximately $38 billion, and preserve investments in essential programs that promote job creation and aid the middle class. “H.R. 1473 represents the necessary compromise that I called for a week ago to avoid a government shutdown and reduce the deficit without harming the middle class,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Like any compromise, it is imperfect. But voting for it was the right thing to do for our country. H.R. 1473 is a much better bill than the House Republicans’ original budget, which I opposed because it included too many ill-conceived cuts that would hurt America now and in the long run. It recognizes that for the sake of America’s future, we must cut spending in a thoughtful, targeted way, while continuing to make investments that strengthen our nation.” Prior to today’s vote, Congressman Lipinski voted for all three short-term budget extensions, which together reduced spending by $12 billion and kept the government running while negotiations on a bill covering the rest of the fiscal year continued. He also voted in December to trim spending by $40 billion compared to the President’s budget request. The final budget bill improves upon the House Republicans’ original legislation, H.R. 1, in a number of respects. Unlike H.R. 1, the bill voted on today preserves $133 million to build the Englewood Flyover in Chicago, which will create 1,450 jobs and help eliminate delays on Metra’s Rock Island and Southwest Service lines. Compared to H.R. 1, it adds funding for oversight of Wall Street to prevent another financial meltdown, and eliminates some draconian cuts to job-creating hi-tech research, including alternative energy research. In a variety of other areas, it preserves more funding for critical investments than H.R. 1. At the same time, H.R. 1473 achieves substantial cost savings through sensible, targeted cuts to a range of programs, such as a $1 billion reduction in spending on federal buildings. Unfortunately, H.R. 1473 does not include $24 billion in cuts supported by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates that Congressman Lipinski previously voted for. These cuts would have eliminated funding to develop the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle and the Surface-Launched Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile, which have suffered from delays, cost overruns, and poor performance. “I’m glad that in the end both sides were able to reach an agreement that allows us to continue to move forward and work on a long-term solution to the country’s debt problem that recognizes the need to invest in the American people,” Congressman Lipinski said. “As I’ve said many times, America works best when its leaders put aside partisan politics and focus on doing the right thing for the country as a whole. I’m going to continue to work for and support efforts to enforce fiscal discipline in Washington while strengthening the middle class.” (April 14, 2011) ###
04.08.2011	This afternoon, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement on the prospect of a government shutdown occurring at midnight tonight: “I am deeply disappointed and frustrated that we are now on the verge of a government shutdown. I have repeatedly stated and acted on my belief that both sides must come together in the middle and agree on a commonsense plan to cut the deficit without hurting the middle class. Already, I have helped pass $50 billion in targeted spending reductions for this year while opposing the House Republican budget, whose ill-considered cuts would cost us jobs, harm working families, and damage America’s long-term economic competitiveness. I stand ready to vote for a reasonable plan that will keep our government running while addressing the need to reduce spending without harming job creation. “The negotiations should never have reached this point. Shutting down the government is irresponsible, plain and simple. For the greater good of our nation as a whole, both sides need to stop playing to the extremes and reach an agreement. No one can get everything they want in a negotiation such as this. I do not expect that I will be happy with every element of the final compromise. But I recognize that is the very nature of compromise. “In the event of a shutdown, my offices will remain open and my staff will remain available to assist Third District residents. As a Member of Congress, my duty is to represent my constituents, and that is true regardless of whether a shutdown occurs. Indeed, in the event that other areas of the government close, there may be an even greater need and demand for help and information. “Whether or not a shutdown occurs at midnight tonight, I will continue working to keep our government operating, to promote fiscal responsibility in Washington, and to actively represent the residents of the Third District.” (April 8, 2011) ####
04.06.2011	Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) announced they have each introduced bills to require the development of a national manufacturing strategy in order to boost traditional and high-tech manufacturing, spur American job growth, and strengthen the middle class. “The fact that U.S. manufacturers recently posted their first yearly jobs gain since 1997 demonstrates how much American manufacturing and those who rely on manufacturing for their livelihood have suffered over the past decade,” Rep. Lipinski said. “Just last month came the news that China has seized the title of the world’s leading goods producer, ending America’s 110-year reign. Yet no plan with broad support and real momentum currently exists for growing American manufacturing and reversing the offshoring that has been killing the middle class. That’s why we need to develop a manufacturing strategy and follow through on its recommendations. Our bills may differ on the details, but Senator Brown and I share the same goals for manufacturing and job creation in the heartland and across America.” “The manufacturing industry helped build our middle class and must lead our nation’s economic recovery,” Sen. Brown said. “If we’re going to out-compete and out-innovate other countries, it will require a national manufacturing strategy. The United States has been without one, and our economy has paid the price. We are seeing manufacturing help lead us out of the recession, but we need a sustained strategy to ensure long-term growth and job creation.” America has lost 5.5 million manufacturing jobs, or one-third of the total, over the last decade. In addition to the consequences for the middle class, the loss of manufacturing capacity harms national security by threatening America’s ability to independently equip its military. Rep. Lipinski’s bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act passed the House last year 379-38. The current version, H.R. 1366, has 11 Democratic and 10 Republican cosponsors. To ensure widespread buy-in from both business and government, it requires the president to establish a Manufacturing Strategy Board of federal officials, two state governors from different parties, and private-sector manufacturing leaders. Every four years, the board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the manufacturing sector covering matters ranging from financing to trade to the defense industrial base. Based on this analysis and ample public input, the board will develop a strategy that includes specific recommendations to the President, Congress, and industry for bolstering American manufacturing. To make sure we stay the course, the board will assess the implementation of its recommendations annually, and the GAO will conduct a separate review. Described as “Congress’ leading proponent of American Manufacturing,” Brown held a series of hearings as Chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on Economic Policy to examine ways to revitalize American manufacturing. His hearing "The U.S. as Global Competitor: What Are the Elements of a National Manufacturing Strategy", examined how best to establish a national manufacturing policy; while other hearings addressed ways to restore credit to manufacturers, and the Obama administration’s manufacturing agenda. He has also been working with the Obama Administration on the creation of a national manufacturing policy and has outlined six key areas of focus for investing in manufacturing. These include creating a business climate favorable to investing in manufacturing; investing in manufacturing for priorities such as clean energy and critical military equipment; strengthening supply chains through the Manufacturing Extension Partnership; matching dislocated workers with training in emerging industries; making the research and development tax credit permanent; and defending against unfair trade. Sen. Brown’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act of 2011 would require the Commerce Secretary to, within 180 days, conduct a comprehensive analysis of the nation’s manufacturing sector and submit to Congress a National Manufacturing Strategy. The report should include an assessment of U.S. manufacturing capacity, including what goods are produced, where they are produced, and in which sectors the U.S. is most competitive. The goals of the Strategy are to increase U.S. manufacturing jobs, identify emerging technologies to strengthen U.S. competitiveness, and strengthen the manufacturing sectors in which the U.S. is most competitive. The Commerce Department will coordinate manufacturing assessment and recommendations with other federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Labor, Department of the Treasury, the Small Business Administration, the Office of Management and Budget, the Office of Science and Technology, and the Office of United States Trade Representative among others. In addition, the report must include at least two public listening sessions that include witnesses from manufacturing sectors, as well as a database of information derived from surveys of private manufacturers in order to understand how public policies can be tailored to promote manufacturing competitiveness. “Other countries take a far more aggressive and coordinated approach to bolstering their manufacturing sectors, while America has allowed our manufacturing base to wither,” Rep. Lipinski said. “We need to change that right now and adopt a strategy for revitalizing American manufacturing that creates jobs and helps make us the leading producer of high-value goods for decades to come. Leaving manufacturing to other countries and becoming an entirely service-based economy is clearly not the way to keep America strong. Losing manufacturing means losing your competitive edge, especially in high-tech industries where process innovation is key to product innovation. Ignorance of that fact and a blind trust in globalization helped bring us stagnating middle-class incomes and the rampant speculation by big banks that precipitated the 2008 financial crisis.” The America COMPETES Act, passed last December, includes a National Economic Competitiveness Strategy that echoes Rep. Lipinski’s NMSA. It also includes his NSF reauthorization, which authorizes a high-tech manufacturing research program, and as called for by Lipinski requires better access to government supercomputers for manufacturers, and provides loan guarantees for manufacturers producing innovative technologies. In the 111th Congress, Rep. Lipinski introduced the Buy American Improvement Act with Sen. Russ Feingold to close loopholes in existing Buy American laws. (April 6, 2011) ####
04.04.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), IDOT Secretary Gary Hannig, Metra Chairwoman Carole Doris, and other state and local leaders announced that at Lipinski’s request the Illinois Department of Transportation has agreed to pay for a study of increasing Metra service on the Heritage Corridor. Rep. Lipinski has been leading the push to expand commuter service on the Heritage Corridor, which currently offers only three weekday round trips between Joliet and Chicago’s Union Station, with stops in Summit, Willow Springs, Lemont, and Lockport. “I’m very glad that IDOT has agreed to this capacity study of the Heritage Corridor so we can determine what needs to be done to allow Metra to add trains on the line,” Rep. Lipinski said. “There is tremendous demand along the line for more service, and this is a big step in the right direction. It shows that the effort to expand Metra and Amtrak service on the Heritage Corridor has real momentum. Adding trains may not happen overnight, but the fact is that three round trips a day simply isn’t enough. With unemployment still too high and gas prices squeezing family budgets, we need to make sure Chicagoland residents can get to where the jobs are – safely, efficiently, and affordably. I especially want to thank Secretary Hannig and Chairwoman Doris for their strong support of this capacity study and understanding of the need for more Metra service on the line.” “We’re pleased to be able to provide support for this important study, which will help the entire state move forward more quickly on upgrades for high-speed and conventional rail services,” Illinois Transportation Secretary Gary Hannig said. “The study results will help us determine infrastructure improvements for more frequent, more reliable, and faster intercity and commuter service for Illinois travelers. Rep. Lipinski is to be commended for his advocacy and efforts on behalf of commuters.” “I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for answering the call of Will County communities,” Will County Executive Larry Walsh said. “Increased commuter service on the Heritage line has been long awaited and will greatly benefit communities like Lemont, Lockport, Romeoville and Joliet by reducing congestion, attracting new jobs and by increasing the quality of life for our residents. I look forward to working with the Congressman on this project and on many other projects that are beneficial to Will County in the future.” “The area along this line is still growing rapidly, and an expansion of service is sorely needed,” Willow Springs Mayor Alan Nowaczyk said. “I know that Congressman Lipinski has been working toward this for some time, and we’re extremely pleased at his success and look forward to more Metra trains on the Heritage Corridor.” “On behalf of the city of Lockport and the commuters, I’m very happy to see Rep. Lipinski’s leadership has worked to get this mission accomplished,” Lockport Mayor Dev Trivedi said. “I want to thank him for getting this done.” Rep. Lipinski’s success in obtaining state and federal funding for the CREATE rail modernization program has already helped to expand capacity on the Heritage Corridor and pave the way for additional Metra trains. Rail capacity on the line was increased in 2007 by the Brighton Park Junction modernization project. Since then, three additional projects that benefit the Heritage Corridor have been completed as part of CREATE. “I want to make sure people understand this study is only the first step,” Rep. Lipinski said. “But every train we add helps, and I’m going to keep working to put more Metra trains on the Heritage Corridor and give all those who live near the line more transportation options. Better Metra service doesn’t just help those who use it – it benefits everyone who drives by reducing the number of vehicles on our roads, which are now the most congested in the entire country. As things stand today, the lack of trains on the Heritage Corridor means there’s a major gap in public transportation in the area between Metra’s Southwest Service and BNSF Railway lines. “I know that increasing Metra service on the Heritage Corridor would be welcomed by the residents of Bedford Park, Summit, Justice, Willow Springs, Burr Ridge, Lemont, Lockport, Joliet, Romeoville, Bolingbrook, Homer Glen, and other communities. Adding trains could provide a big boost to the economies of all these communities along the Corridor.” The Regional Transportation Authority has formally requested that IDOT perform the Heritage Corridor capacity study. Rep. Lipinski has a record of working successfully with IDOT, Metra, and others to improve rail service and operations. He helped bring long-awaited weekend Metra service to the Southwest Service line, which stops in communities such as Ashburn, Wrightwood, Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, Palos Heights, and Palos Park. He has also helped bring railroad quiet zones to Oak Lawn and to Riverside, North Riverside, and Berwyn. Quiet zones prevent trains from sounding their horns except for immediate safety reasons, reducing disturbances for those living and working nearby. Among those who also joined Rep. Lipinski in support of more Heritage Corridor service were state Sen. A.J. Wilhelmi of Joliet, Lemont Mayor Brian Reaves, and Romeoville Mayor John Noak. (April 4, 2011) ####
04.01.2011	Southwest News-Herald By Congressman Dan Lipinski April 1, 2011 A year ago last week, following months of careful study, I voted against the health care law. I did so because the law is not fiscally sustainable, does little to reduce costs for most Americans, threatens seniors’ access to care by cutting Medicare funding, and permits federal funding for abortion. At the time of my vote, I committed to working to fix the law and to promoting real health care reform that reduces costs and expands coverage without bankrupting our nation. Since then, even as the bitter ideological battles over the law have dragged on, I have stuck to my pledge, taking action to improve the law rather than using it to sow division. While others spend their time and energy bickering over the past, what is most important to me is improving the lives of people in my district and across our nation both today and into the future. One way in which I have done so is to cosponsor H.R. 4 to repeal a provision of the health care law requiring small businesses to file an IRS 1099 form for every vendor paid over $600. Such a paperwork nightmare can only hinder job creation at a time when creating good jobs should be our top priority. This bill passed the House with bipartisan support, and I continue to urge the Senate to pass it immediately. More recently, I moved to eliminate one of the most obviously flawed parts of the health care law, the CLASS Act, which establishes a well-intentioned but poorly designed long-term care insurance program. The Congressional Budget Office, the Chief Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the President’s “Deficit Commission” all agree this program cannot pay for itself over the long term. In fact, even Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius called the CLASS Act “totally unsustainable” as written. To save taxpayers from having to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to bail out this program, I helped introduce H.R. 1173 to repeal the CLASS Act. I am working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this bill. Among the most controversial aspects of the health care law is its violation of the Hyde Amendment’s decades-long prohibition of taxpayer funding for abortion and abortion coverage. Despite Americans’ overwhelming opposition to taxpayer-funded abortion, the law broke with the status quo in numerous ways. The president’s executive order cannot change this fact, for the simple reason that under our Constitution the president cannot rewrite legislation passed by Congress. To ensure that taxpayer money never finances abortion, I helped introduce bipartisan legislation to apply the language of the Hyde Amendment to the health care law. While working to fix the law, I have opposed efforts to do away with the helpful changes it made to our health care system. As I said a year ago, I support the law’s elimination of discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, ban on lifetime and annual limits on coverage, and extension of coverage for dependents on their parents’ health plans. Unfortunately, although the Republicans promised to offer legislation to “repeal and replace” the health care law, they only fulfilled the first part of their pledge. I therefore voted against a wholesale repeal of the law that would eliminate its good provisions and put us right back where we started, with a health care system in dire need of improvement and no clear path forward. I do not believe that a complete repeal without a replacement plan best serves the interests of Third District families. Instead, we need health care reform that helps to rein in costs for the middle class, extends coverage to more Americans, preserves care for seniors, doesn’t violate the Hyde Amendment, and is viable over the long term. I look forward to continuing to work for such reform, in accordance with my pledge and my record. http://www.swnewsherald.com/online_content/2011/04/040111ov_lip_biker.php
03.30.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) voted for the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results (SOAR) Act, H.R. 471, which will continue a successful program to provide low-income students at failing public schools in Washington, D.C., with scholarship money to attend private schools. The measure reauthorizes the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program (OSP), which studies show has had a strong positive impact on students’ graduation rates and reading scores, giving them a chance at a better life. “I was happy to co-sponsor and help lead the passage of the SOAR Act today, because in doing so we took advantage of perhaps the only chance we will have in this Congress to do something we all want to do – provide children with an opportunity they otherwise would not have to get a better education and to have a better future,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The improved graduation rates already produced by the Opportunity Scholarship Program are not just abstract numbers. They mean real opportunities for a better life for kids who likely would not otherwise get them. Ask the kids, or ask the parents what a difference these scholarships can make. Kids like Derrick Carter and Maurice Holton, Jr., who I met at St. Thomas More Academy, along with Derrick’s father and Maurice’s grandmother. The evidence is clear and compelling that the Opportunity Scholarship Program is making a profoundly positive contribution to the lives of children, their families, and their communities.” The graduation rate for students who received and used Opportunity Scholarships is 21 percentage points higher than for those who applied for a scholarship but did not receive one, according to The Department of Education’s “Final Evaluation of the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program.” Among girls the increase was even higher, at 28 percentage points. In a world where a college education is a prerequisite for many good-paying jobs, a high school diploma is critical. Graduating high school also confers many long-term benefits on its own, as shown by the fact that the unemployment rate for those without a high school diploma is close to 50 percent higher than for those with a diploma. Recent testimony by Dr. Patrick J. Wolf, the principal investigator for the Department’s report, refutes misleading claims made by OSP critics. Dr. Wolf stated: “[T]he D.C. OSP has accomplished what few educational interventions can claim: It markedly improved important education outcomes for low-income inner-city students.” He also stated that in addition to sharply increasing graduation rates, “the evidence is conclusive” the program has improved reading scores and that claims to the contrary “fly in the face of a wealth of scientific evidence.” Congressman Lipinski is a strong supporter of giving all parents choices to ensure their children have the opportunity to get a good education. The funding authorized by the SOAR Act will go to help all Washington, D.C., students, and would be divided equally between the Opportunity Scholarship Program, public schools, and public charter schools. “Proven and successful programs like the OSP empower parents, giving them the opportunity to ‘vote with their feet’ by selecting the school that works best for their children,” Congressman Lipinski said. “That does not mean that this is the sole solution to improving America’s educational system. We must invest in public education, as this bill does, and work to improve local public schools across the country, so that every child has access to a good education and a chance to succeed. At the same time, we should be willing to innovate and to embrace proven programs, always bearing in mind that what is most important is to do what is right for our kids. I think we can all agree that a child shouldn’t have to attend schools that fail to meet reasonable standards just because of where she lives. She should have the same chance to live up to her full potential as anyone else. Today, with this vote, we took a step toward making sure every kid has that chance.” (March 30, 2011) ####
03.23.2011	Last week, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined with Reps. Charles Boustany Jr. (La.) and Phil Gingrey (Ga.) to introduce the Fiscal Responsibility and Retirement Security Act, H.R. 1173, to eliminate a portion of the health care law, the CLASS Act, that experts agree is financially unsound and would add significantly to the national debt over the long term. “Having warned from the beginning that the CLASS Act was unsustainable and would add to America’s already swollen national debt, I believe we must take action now to protect taxpayers,” Rep. Lipinski said. “The CLASS Act is well-intentioned, but even Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius has conceded that the current version of the program is ‘totally unsustainable.’ Since a viable reform of the program has yet to be proposed to ensure its solvency, we need to repeal it before it starts taking in premiums. The federal government should not make promises it cannot keep.” The Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Act creates a fatally flawed long-term care insurance program. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that while the CLASS Act would create a $70 billion surplus during the first ten years of the health care law, it would actually add at least tens of billions of dollars to the federal deficit every decade after 20 years. The Chief Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services found the program faces “a very serious risk” of entering an “insurance death spiral.” President Obama’s National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform – the “Bowles-Simpson Debt Commission” – recently agreed, observing that the act is “viewed by many experts as financially unsound” and threatens to “collapse under its own weight.” The design of the CLASS Act leads to the problem of adverse selection, in which the young and healthy decline to enroll, resulting in a pool of beneficiaries whose premiums cannot cover the cost of their benefits. Increasing premiums only compounds the problem by further encouraging healthier individuals to conclude participation is not in their interest. While supporters of the program have suggested making a variety of changes to prop it up, the end result would very likely be no different. Alicia H. Munnell, Director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College and a former economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, recently reported that the CLASS Act “faces enormous challenges” and that even with changes “premiums may never reach an affordable level for middle-class households.” Furthermore, one of the main options for addressing the problems with the CLASS Act – a change to the minimum earnings requirement by the Secretary of Health and Human Services – appears unlikely to survive a court challenge, according to an analysis by the Congressional Research Service. “The stated goal of the CLASS Act was to pay for coverage through the premiums charged by the program, and there continues to be universal agreement that its ability to self-finance is the criterion by which it must be evaluated,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Unfortunately, a close examination of the program shows that it is not viable over the long term. The only reasonable option in the context of today’s budget difficulties is to end the program now. Failure to do so will simply shift the burden of paying for the CLASS Act to future generations. We cannot afford to add any more to our already crushing federal debt.” (March 23, 2011) ####
03.16.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped introduce the bipartisan CPI for Seniors Act, H.R. 1086, which aims to create a new inflation index that would accurately measure the cost increases faced by older Americans. This is the second consecutive year with no Social Security cost-of-living increase, despite the fact that the cost of health care, gasoline, and food continues to rise even as the economy struggles to grow and low interest rates hurt retirees’ income from savings. “We need to make sure we understand the reality seniors face at the gas pump, the grocery store, and when they sit down to pay their taxes and other bills,” said Congressman Lipinski, the lead cosponsor of H.R. 1086. “Before last year, the last time seniors had to get by without a cost-of-living increase was 1975. Yet food prices have been marching upward and the price of gas in Chicago has soared by 30 percent since last year, hitting $4 or more in some places. At my Senior Fair in Bridgeview on Monday, I spoke to a number of Third District retirees who reiterated that necessities are costing them more and more. This bill reflects the fact that I continue to listen to local seniors and take action.” Annual Social Security cost-of-living adjustments are not directly decided by Congress. Instead, by law, they are determined by an inflation gauge known as the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers. As its name suggests, that index was designed to measure the inflation experienced by urban wage earners, not seniors, who spend more on items such as health care. The CPI for Seniors Act directs the Bureau of Labor Statistics to develop a new price index that accounts for seniors’ actual costs. The result will be a more accurate understanding of the economic reality experienced by retirees. The CPI-W assumes that medical spending accounts for just over 5 percent of consumers’ expenditures. Yet one recent study found that among households with Medicare recipients, health care accounts for more than 14 percent of total spending. Older Americans are also more likely to be homeowners, which exposes them to different costs and budgetary pressures. Last year, Congressman Lipinski voted to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time $250 payment to make up for the lack of a cost-of-living increase. Unfortunately, the bill did not pass the House. Social Security is the primary source of income for almost two-thirds of retirees, and for one-third of recipients it provides 90 percent or more of their income. “Having voted against the substantial cuts to Medicare in the health care law, I continue to look out for Third District seniors,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I know that many retirees, along with their families, are still feeling the effects of the economic downturn. Making sure that they receive the benefits they have earned is extremely important to me.” (March 16, 2011) ###
03.16.2011	On Tuesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for H.J. Res 48 to cut $6 billion in spending and avoid a government shutdown while agreement on a spending bill for the remainder of the fiscal year is sought. The bill, which keeps the government functioning until April 8, passed on a bipartisan vote, 271-158. “Funding our government on a week-to-week basis certainly is not my preference,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Nor was I happy with everything that was included in or omitted from this bill. But it’s critical that we keep the government running while seeking a sensible compromise on spending that includes cuts that help reduce the national debt without harming the middle class and that help position our economy for job creation and long-term growth. With the passage of this latest continuing resolution, I continue to believe there is no reason we cannot find common ground and reach an agreement that is good for our country as a whole, even if it frustrates the extremes on either side who would risk shutting down the government and damaging the economy rather than compromise.” Previously, Congressman Lipinski parted ways with most Democrats and voted for a resolution calling for a reduction in spending for the rest of this fiscal year. But the spending bill that House Republicans later offered, H.R. 1, included cuts that went too far. H.R. 1 would cost hundreds of thousands of private-sector jobs and slash support for transportation, public safety, the environment, Wall Street oversight, and America’s long-term competitiveness. Congressman Lipinski therefore opposed the bill. He continues to support common-sense spending cuts and on March 1 voted for H.J. Res 44 to extend funding for the federal government for two weeks while making budget cuts of $4 billion. “I stand ready to partner with all those whose priority is to do what is best for the American people,” Congressman Lipinski said. “A government shutdown is not in anyone’s interest.” (March 16, 2011) ####
03.14.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding the agreement reached by the City of Chicago, the U.S. Department of Transportation, and American Airlines and United Airlines to enable new runway construction at O’Hare International Airport. “I am extremely pleased that all sides were able to come together to reach a mutually satisfactory and beneficial agreement that will allow the modernization of O’Hare to move forward,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Ensuring that O’Hare functions at an extremely high level and is prepared for future air traffic growth is essential for the vitality of the Chicagoland economy, job creation, and the competitiveness of countless area businesses, both small and large. When the leaders of United and Continental Airlines appeared before the Aviation Subcommittee of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee last year, I pressed them on their commitment to O’Hare modernization, and the subcommittee was assured of their support for runway expansion. This agreement is thus a welcome step in the right direction. I trust that when the time comes to discuss proceeding with further runway expansion, the agreement announced today will furnish a precedent that helps all parties to work together for the good of O’Hare, our region, air travelers, and America’s aviation system as a whole. I also believe we must continue to promote other efforts that will expand capacity at both O’Hare and Midway Airports, including the Next Generation Air Transportation project, which will modernize our air traffic control system using GPS technology and reduce conflicts between O’Hare and Midway that lead to delays. I look forward to continuing to work to make sure Chicago maintains its status as the central hub in America’s aviation and transportation network.” (March 14, 2011) ###
03.07.2011	On the same day the State of Illinois honored American Revolutionary War hero General Casimir Pulaski, Congressman Dan Lipinski, Sen. Mark Kirk, and Congressman Mike Quigley pledged today to spearhead bipartisan legislation to include Poland in the U.S. Visa Waiver Program (VWP). “My district is home to more than 100,000 people of Polish ancestry, and this issue is important to many of us, which is why I’ve been working to include Poland in the Visa Waiver Program for the past six years,” said Congressman Lipinski, the co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland. “Having contributed to the fight in Afghanistan and Iraq, Poland is one of our most reliable allies, and I strongly believe it should qualify for participation in the waiver program.” “Despite its strong support for the United States, Poland remains one of the only major democratic U.S. allies to be excluded from the Visa Waiver Program,” Senator Kirk said. “The United States should stand by its commitment to this strong democratic ally and bring Poland into the Visa Waiver Program.” “On my trip to Poland last year, I saw firsthand Poland’s commitment to democracy and importance as our ally,” said Congressman Quigley. “I’ve been working since the day I took office for Poland’s inclusion in the Visa Waiver Program because it’s essential for both our diplomacy and our national security.” Senator Kirk and Congressmen Quigley and Lipinski said they will introduce the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act in the Senate and House. The legislation aims to update and modernize VWP requirements, ultimately making Poland and other U.S. allies eligible to participate in VWP. The Kirk/Quigley/Lipinski legislation would make the primary qualifying criteria for VWP participation a low overstay rate--set at less than 3 percent of foreign nationals who remain in the United States after their visa expires. Current practice uses the visa refusal rate, but experts agree that is an outdated measure that is less relevant to U.S. security, law enforcement, or contribution to rates of illegal immigration. The bill also enhances national security by encouraging information sharing between the United States and member countries. Poland currently is one of the few European nations to be excluded from the VWP, despite its nearly century-long diplomatic relationship with the United States. The Polish government repealed its visa requirement for U.S. citizens traveling to Poland in 1991. In his December 2010 meeting with Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski, President Barack Obama said he would make Poland’s admission into the VWP a “priority,” and he pledged to complete that process expeditiously. Currently, citizens of 36 foreign nations are eligible to participate in VWP, which allows foreign visitors to travel to the United States for up to 90 days without a visa. Poland, a member of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, also participates in the “Schengen Area,” made up of 25 European nations that allow passport-free travel across borders. Congressmen Lipinski and Quigley and Senator Kirk also pointed out that Poland has been one of the staunchest U.S. allies during its military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan, where 2,500 Polish soldiers currently are deployed. At least 24 Polish troops have been killed in action. No new nations have been added to the U.S. program since 2008, when Greece joined. The nations of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Slovakia and South Korea also are among the VWP’s newest members. The United States launched its visa waiver program in 1986 to make it easier for tourists and business travelers from friendly nations to visit without a visa as long as their homeland met stringent security and law-enforcement standards. The program’s security standards include sharing security-related information with the United States and the timely reporting of lost or stolen passports. VWP participants also are required to maintain enhanced counterterrorism, law enforcement, border control, and document security standards. Enhanced security procedures were added to the program under the Bill Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, including the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) that allows the Department of Homeland Security to determine, prior to travel, whether an individual eligible for the VWP poses a law enforcement or security risk to the United States. A complete list of the 36 nations that currently participate in the VWP is available here. (March 7, 2011) ###
03.04.2011	On Thursday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted to eliminate an expensive and burdensome tax-reporting requirement as part of his commitment to help small businesses create jobs and to fix the numerous problems with the health care law passed last year. The Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act, H.R. 4, cosponsored by Lipinski, passed 314-112. “As America’s premiere source of job creation, small businesses are absolutely essential to the economic recovery,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The last thing government should be doing is making them jump through hoops. The more time owners and employees of small businesses have to spend on paperwork, the less time they have to focus on investing, innovating, and pursuing the growth opportunities that ultimately create jobs. That’s why it was critical to get rid of the provision in the health care law requiring businesses to file an IRS 1099 form for every vendor paid over $600. That’s an expensive, time-consuming burden that small businesses in the Third District and across the country simply cannot afford to deal with.” Congressman Lipinski voted against the health care law last year because it is not fiscally sustainable, does little to reduce costs for most Americans, threatens seniors’ access to care by cutting Medicare funding, and permits federal funding for abortion. He is working to correct these problems and others, as shown by his vote for H.R. 4. “By cosponsoring and helping pass H.R. 4, I am continuing to work to enable Americans to obtain affordable health care without bankrupting taxpayers and without threatening Medicare,” Congressman Lipinski said. “At the same time, I am focused on addressing the most pressing problem my constituents face right now: the lack of good middle-class jobs. I cast my vote for H.R. 4 today in the firm belief that we must do everything we can to make it easier for businesses to invest, grow, and hire new workers.” In September, Congressman Lipinski helped pass the Small Business Jobs Act, H.R. 5297, to create jobs by providing $12 billion in tax relief and increased access to credit for small businesses. (March 4, 2011) ###
03.02.2011	On Tuesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for H.J. Res 44 to extend funding for the federal government for two weeks while making reasonable budget cuts of $4 billion, giving both sides time to reach agreement on a spending bill for the rest of the year. The bill passed with bipartisan support, 335-91. “This short-term extension is a step in the right direction as we work to restore fiscal discipline in Washington while continuing to invest in essential programs,” Congressman Lipinski said. “What’s important now is that we continue to focus on reducing unnecessary spending while preserving investments that keep our middle class strong, create jobs, and ensure America remains competitive. There is middle ground between those who reflexively oppose any spending reductions and those who want to make extreme cuts that hurt job creation and harm working families. I will continue to support a sensible compromise that keeps our government running.” Previously, Congressman Lipinski parted ways with most Democrats and voted for a resolution calling for a reduction in spending for the rest of this fiscal year to 2008 levels. But the spending bill that House Republicans later offered, H.R. 1, included cuts that went far beyond that level. H.R. 1 would cost hundreds of thousands of private-sector jobs and slash support for transportation, public safety, the environment, Wall Street oversight, and America’s long-term competitiveness. Congressman Lipinski therefore opposed the bill. He continues to support common-sense spending cuts while helping ensure America remains strong. “Part of the reason I didn’t vote for the $700 billion Wall Street bailout or the $1 trillion health care bill is that I believe our government cannot spend recklessly and borrow with abandon,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But we also cannot cut with our eyes closed. Last week I stood at the planned site of the Englewood Flyover, whose funding would be eliminated by H.R. 1. That would mean the direct loss of 1,450 jobs, more delays on Metra’s Rock Island and Southwest Service lines, and a loss of economic development in Chicagoland. We must continue to make such investments, which are critical for the future of our nation, especially our middle class.” (March 2, 2011) ####
02.24.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin vowed to fight to preserve $133 million in federal funding for the Englewood Flyover, a linchpin of the CREATE rail modernization program that will reduce Metra delays for Third District riders, create 1,450 jobs, and boost long-term economic growth. The project’s funding would be immediately eliminated in the spending bill for the current fiscal year that the House approved early Saturday morning and Congressman Lipinski opposed. The legislation now heads to the Senate for consideration. Congressman Lipinski is the leading supporter of CREATE, having obtained the first $100 million for the program in 2005 and having helped to secure hundreds of millions of additional dollars for it since then. “As my record reflects, I believe that the national debt is a threat to America’s long-term economic health and that we need to cut unnecessary spending to assure our future prosperity,” Lipinski said. “But we can’t cut with our eyes closed; we must continue to make investments that are critical for the future of our nation, especially our middle class. The Englewood Flyover provides a tremendous bang for the buck, and cutting it now would be incredibly short-sighted. It will create 1,450 jobs at a time when there aren’t nearly enough middle class jobs available. It will reduce delays on Metra’s Rock Island District line and is the critical first step toward eliminating delays on the Southwest Service line, benefiting 40,000 riders every weekday. As a linchpin of the CREATE rail modernization program, it will boost economic growth for years to come. It’s vital we continue to move the program forward. “When you talk about the Englewood Flyover, you’re talking about a concrete investment in local jobs,” Lipinski said. “Just last month, Chicagoland traffic congestion was named the worst in the country. Congestion is a job killer, costing Chicago-area businesses $3.3 billion and local consumers $1,738 each on average annually. By keeping truck traffic off our roads and making commuting on Metra faster and more reliable, the Englewood Flyover will provide badly needed congestion relief that keeps our economy moving. Maintaining funding for it is essential. “Yes, we need to cut spending, but we need to do so in a responsible manner,” Durbin said. “We shouldn’t abandon our commitments to creating jobs and economic development in the midst of this recession.” The Englewood Flyover will build a bridge to carry Metra’s Rock Island line over the Norfolk Southern/Amtrak tracks at 63rd Street in Chicago, ending delays that occur when trains must wait for other trains to cross at the rail-rail intersection before proceeding. Failure to increase freight rail capacity through CREATE would mean missing out on 17,000 jobs and $2 billion in annual economic production in the Chicago metropolitan area. CREATE will reduce congestion with track, switch, and signal upgrades and by constructing overpasses and underpasses to end conflicts at both rail-rail and highway-rail crossings. It will also limit locomotive engine idling and improve air quality. CREATE is a first-of-its-kind partnership, bringing together the federal government, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the Chicago Department of Transportation, Metra, and the Association of American Railroads. “There is no doubt that we must cut spending, reduce the national debt, and restore fiscal discipline,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Three weeks ago, I parted ways with most Democrats and voted for a resolution calling for a reduction in spending for the rest of this fiscal year to 2008 levels. But the House Republicans’ spending bill goes far beyond that, and in the final analysis it cuts from the wrong places. Funding for job-creating investments like the Englewood Flyover should be preserved as we work to reach a sensible agreement to fund our government for the rest of the year.” (February 24, 2011) ###
02.22.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted against the House Republicans’ spending bill because it threatens to derail the economic recovery, would cost hundreds of thousands of private-sector jobs, and slashes support for working families, public safety, health care, transportation, the environment, Wall Street oversight, and America’s long-term competitiveness. “There is no doubt that we must cut spending, reduce the national debt, and restore fiscal discipline,” Congressman Lipinski said. “That is one reason why I did not vote for the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, the $1 trillion health care bill, or the $862 billion stimulus bill. Three weeks ago, I parted ways with most Democrats and voted for a resolution calling for a reduction in spending for the rest of this fiscal year to 2008 levels. But this bill goes far beyond that, and in the final analysis it cuts from the wrong places. We cannot cut spending without considering what programs work and the consequences for the American people. This bill would cost American jobs, hurt middle-class families, and put our fragile economic recovery at risk. What we need and what I strongly support is a disciplined approach to addressing the national debt.” “It is clear that this bill has no chance of passing the Senate in its current form. To reach agreement on a spending bill for the rest of the year to keep the government running will require compromise by both those who want drastic, ultimately harmful reductions and those who reflexively oppose cutting any spending. In recent days, there has been much talk about the possibility of an impasse that leads to a government shutdown. I believe that we should not allow this to happen, especially not when our economy is still struggling to create jobs and emerge from recession. As I have many times before, I will be working to find a common sense solution for the American people. A stubborn refusal to budge by those on both sides will only end in gridlock that hurts our nation.” H.R. 1 cuts $8.5 billion for vital transportation and infrastructure projects, costing 284,000 primarily private-sector jobs. Those cuts include $133 million to build the Englewood Flyover in Chicago, which would create 1,450 jobs and help eliminate delays on Metra’s Rock Island and Southwest Service lines as well as for Amtrak and freight rail. With a surface transportation bill already long overdue and the Chicago region’s traffic congestion now ranked the worst in America, such cuts are bad for the Third District. At the same time, the legislation eliminates $234 million for new air traffic control technology that is critical to enabling Midway and O’Hare airports to keep up with future growth and remain economic engines for the region. The bill drastically reduces funding for employment and training programs, hurting tens of thousands of the unemployed from manufacturing and other sectors who need to acquire new skills so they can reenter the workforce and provide for their families. To prevent another financial crisis, Congressman Lipinski has supported stronger regulation and oversight of Wall Street. Unfortunately, the bill cuts funding for the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, making it easier for Wall Street to continue the reckless behavior that helped cause the recession. Despite continued illegal immigration, drug smuggling, and the risk that a porous border poses to national security in an age of terrorism, the bill cuts border security fencing, infrastructure, and technology by $350 million. Support for local police would also take a hit, with a nearly 40 percent reduction in grants for state and local law enforcement. The measure makes deep cuts to both job-creating high-tech research and medical research. Funding would be slashed for the kind of advanced research that has led to innovations that have created entire industries and countless jobs. Alternative energy research aimed at reducing America’s dependence on foreign oil would be cut by more than a third. Locally, Argonne National Laboratory reportedly would have to lay off 1,000 employees, and Fermilab would have to lay off 400 employees. Plus, thousands of jobs for contractors and subcontractors would be lost. This would be a significant setback for the Chicagoland economy. Meanwhile, the National Institutes of Health would lose $1.6 billion, a blow to America’s most important source of life-saving research into cancer and other diseases. Living on the shores of Lake Michigan, where sewage dumping and beach closures are all too common, Chicagoland residents know the importance of improving water quality. Yet this legislation cuts $1.4 billion from the EPA program that helps modernize sewage treatment plants to stop pollution. While resisting unwise cuts, Congressman Lipinski supported getting rid of wasteful spending included in this legislation. He voted for an amendment to eliminate funding for the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle and the Surface-Launched Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile, which would save a total of $24 billion. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has recommended cancelling both the missile system, which suffered from delays and cost overruns, and the EFV, which has been plagued by delays and poor performance and is far over budget, with the expected cost per vehicle having nearly tripled over the last decade. Secretary Gates has proposed more affordable options for ensuring that America maintains a strong amphibious assault capability. Congressman Lipinski also voted for a bipartisan amendment to limit farm subsidy payments to $250,000 per entity to prevent unnecessary payments to big agribusinesses, saving $100 million. Unfortunately, both of these money-saving amendments were defeated. “We need to cut spending to assure America remains strong and prosperous for our children and grandchildren,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I also expect that the final spending bill will involve tough decisions and difficult tradeoffs, but this bill cut too much from needed investments and failed to make other more reasonable cuts. That is why I will continue to oppose unnecessary spending and work with my colleagues to pass a budget that takes common-sense steps to restore fiscal discipline.” Prior to the final vote, Congressman Lipinski voted for amendments to restore funding for police hiring under the COPS program and for grants to local fire departments. The Congressman has obtained millions of dollars in critical funding for local police officers and firefighters under these programs. (February 22, 2011) ###
02.15.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced his commitment to passing The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2011, H.R. 639, to make it easier to combat China’s currency manipulation, which artificially lowers the price of Chinese exports and has caused the loss of countless American jobs. Congressman Lipinski helped introduce H.R. 639 and has supported similar legislation since he was first elected to Congress. Last year, he helped pass a nearly identical version of the bill in the House with bipartisan support. Unfortunately, the Senate did not follow suit. “It’s not too late for Congress to take concrete action to address China’s illegal currency manipulation and defend American workers,” Congressman Lipinski said. “We’ve been hemorrhaging manufacturing jobs for more than a decade, and a big part of the reason is that China deliberately drives down the value of its currency instead of allowing the free market to determine exchange rates. That makes it difficult for manufacturers in the Third District and across the country to compete. For the sake of middle class families, we have to act now to hold China accountable and establish a level playing field.” If China stopped devaluing its currency, an estimated 500,000 American jobs would be created. H.R. 639 would make it easier for the Commerce Department to rule that China’s currency manipulation constitutes an export subsidy and to impose remedial tariffs to protect American manufacturers and jobs. The bill has been carefully crafted to be consistent with World Trade Organization rules. “While China said last year that it would allow the renminbi to rise, it remains drastically undervalued,” Congressman Lipinski said. “It’s going to take more than talk to get China to play by the rules, and that’s why it’s critical that we pass this bill. American manufacturers remain the most innovative and productive on earth, and I have no doubt that they can outcompete their Chinese counterparts, so long as the competition is free and fair.” Last month, Congressman Lipinski received the Metals Service Center Institute’s Congressional Leadership Award for his outstanding work on behalf of manufacturing, including his leadership in helping to pass the prior version of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act in the House. Just one Republican and one Democrat received the award, which covered both years of the 111th Congress and for which members of both the House and Senate were eligible. (February 15, 2011) ###
02.10.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued a proposal to speed the deployment of the Next Generation Air Transportation project, which uses satellite and other advanced technology to expand capacity, enhance safety, and reduce costly delays, pollution, and noise throughout the nation’s aviation system. Congressman Lipinski’s proposal would provide grants and loan guarantees to enable airlines and other aviation participants to begin installing NextGen technology. It would also establish a multi-stakeholder NextGen oversight board and create incentives for FAA employees overseeing the program to meet specific, agreed-upon metrics for implementing NextGen. “We can’t handle the air traffic of tomorrow with technology that dates back a half-century,” Congressman Lipinski said. “For the sake of the flying public and the economy, we need to modernize our system, and we need to get started right away. But we must recognize that deploying NextGen cannot be accomplished by any single participant in our aviation system – it requires cooperation and investment by numerous stakeholders. The goal of my proposal is to encourage the investments necessary to move NextGen forward. If we’re going to get America’s economy moving and keep it growing, we need to ensure people and goods can get where they need to be safely and without disruptive delays. ” NextGen will transform the ground-based air traffic control radar system of today to the satellite-based system needed to accommodate future air traffic growth. It will vastly increase pilots’ access to essential weather and flight traffic information and help aircraft to fly shorter routes and reduce descent times. The number of passengers on U.S. airlines is expected to increase from 704 million in 2009 to 1 billion by 2023, and delays already cost an estimated $9.4 billion annually. Congressman Lipinski’s proposal incorporates input from a variety of aviation stakeholders, including the commercial, general, and business aviation communities, as well as avionics manufacturers and others. It would provide matching grants to install ADS-B Out systems, which provide air traffic controllers and pilots with highly accurate, real-time information to keep aircraft safely separated in the sky and on runways. Loan guarantees of up to 80 percent would be made available to facilitate adoption of other NextGen technologies, with a three-year deferment period designed to encourage investing now, as the FAA continues working to implement requisite associated systems. The proposal also would establish a Modernization Metrics Oversight Board to develop metrics for measuring the implementation of NextGen and resulting improvements in areas such as safety and on-time performance. These metrics would be used to establish pay incentives for FAA employees to reward the timely deployment of NextGen. Manufacturing and installing on-board NextGen avionics would create an estimated nearly 30,000 American jobs. “Incorporating these proposals into the FAA reauthorization would greatly speed the deployment of NextGen, resulting in tangible improvements for air travelers,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I look forward to continuing to work to move the reauthorization bill forward and help NextGen take flight.” (February 10, 2011) ###
02.04.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the Central Avenue Bypass is moving another significant step forward with the Illinois Department of Transportation set to conduct a public meeting on Thursday, February 17th. The meeting will take place from 3:00 to 7:00 p.m. at St. Laurence High School (5556 W. 77th Street in Burbank). The purpose of the meeting is for IDOT officials to show alternative plans, present options, and hear input from the public. “This public meeting is another major step foward for the Central Avenue Bypass,” Congressman Lipinski said. "I believe that public input into this project is critical and I invite everyone to attend to hear more about the options and help IDOT develop the plan so that the bypass works best for everyone. “The region has never needed the Bypass more than it does today. Building it will create jobs right now and over the long term, as it reduces congestion and boosts business development throughout the region. I’m looking forward to completing the design and engineering process and continuing to work to see this project through.” Congressman Lipinski recently helped secure $60 million from the state for the Bypass, bringing the total amount set aside for it to $170 million. The Bypass is a project of regional and national significance that promises to dramatically reduce traffic congestion on overloaded Harlem Avenue and Cicero Avenue. Central Avenue currently dead-ends in the vast rail yard just south of Midway Airport, leaving no north-south route in the 3 miles separating Harlem and Cicero. The resulting traffic delays disrupt commerce on a local, regional, and national basis. “I know very well how much the Central Avenue Bypass is needed, and how much support there is for seeing it through to completion,” Congressman Lipinski said. “It’s going to save people time, money, and gas, while helping to reduce pollution.” (February 4, 2011) ####
01.28.2011	On Wednesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) introduced H. Res. 61 honoring the outstanding work of Catholic schools and celebrating Catholic Schools Week, which this year begins Jan. 30. The resolution expresses support for “the vital contributions of the thousands of Catholic elementary and secondary schools in the United States” and “the key role they play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the nation.” It recognizes that Catholic schools produce academically successful students, foster a commitment to service, family, and community, and accept students from all faiths and backgrounds. This is the fifth year in a row that Congressman Lipinski has introduced such a resolution. On Jan. 24, he paid tribute to the remarkable success of America’s Catholic schools and the influence of his own Catholic school education in a speech on the House floor. “As a proud graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep, I was born and raised and live in the Chicago Archdiocese, which still has one of the most successful school systems in the country,” Congressman Lipinski said. “In my district alone, there are seven Catholic high schools and approximately 50 grammar schools, including one of the best in my home parish – St. John of the Cross in Western Springs. “America’s Catholic schools produce graduates that have the skills and strength of character needed by our businesses, governments, and communities. In 2009, Catholic school students contributed about half a million hours of service to their communities and parishes. Catholic school students, on average, surpass other students in math, science, and reading in the three grade levels tested by the NAEP test. The graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent, and 97 percent of graduates go on to college or technical schools. Moreover, Catholic schools are known for embracing students from all walks of life. Almost fifteen percent of students in Catholic schools are not Catholic, and over the past 30 years, the percentage of minority students enrolled in Catholic schools has more than doubled. “It is estimated that Catholic schools save Chicagoland taxpayers over $1 billion annually by lowering the number of students in overburdened public schools. “In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we pay a special tribute to countless dedicated teachers and administrators. Many of my favorite memories are of teachers, including many nuns, who taught me the values of faith and service. Throughout the United States, millions of others have similar memories. “I look forward to attending Catholic Schools Week events in my district, to deliver the praise, support, and gratitude they deserve. I encourage my colleagues to do the same.” Catholic Schools Week, which begins on the last Sunday in January, has been an annual event since 1974. (January 28, 2011) ####
01.28.2011	Today, following the release of the final report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) stated that he remains committed to ending the notion that some financial institutions are “too big to fail” and will continue working to ensure Wall Street does not cause another meltdown whose consequences are borne by the American middle class. “The Commission’s report provides many fresh details on the mistakes, foolishness, greed, fraud, and willful ignorance that led to the worst downturn since the Great Depression,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But the overall story remains much the same: excessive borrowing, reckless risk-taking, a lack of transparency, regulatory and oversight failures, government missteps, and an absence of personal responsibility combined to cause the near-collapse of our economy. As the Commission states, the crisis was preventable. What would be inexcusable is if we failed to learn the lessons of this disaster and allowed Wall Street to once again put the welfare of the entire country at risk. It will take not only proper regulation but also vigilant oversight to prevent another such crisis. And having voted against the Wall Street bailout every time it came before me, I believe we must make it clear that there will not be another bailout.” While the stock market has risen sharply along with corporate profits, the downturn continues to exact an enormous toll on the middle class, both in the Third District and across the country. Nationwide, approximately 26 million people are out of work, cannot find full-time work, or have given up looking for work. Nearly $11 trillion in household wealth has been wiped out. And small businesses continue to suffer. “Although Commission members did not achieve complete consensus, many facts are beyond dispute,” Congressman Lipinski said. “As we continue to work to create jobs and ensure that our economy is set on a path of sustainable growth, members of both parties must set aside preconceived notions and do what is best for the American people. Just as I always have, I will continue to stand up for my constituents, to oppose special interests that pose a threat to their well-being, and to fight for common-sense policies that produce a level playing field for all Americans." (January 28, 2011) ###
01.26.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped introduce the bipartisan Scholarships for Opportunity and Results (SOAR) Act, which will continue a successful program to provide low-income students at failing public schools in Washington, D.C., with vouchers to attend private schools. The measure reauthorizes the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program. “I don’t think it’s too much to ask that our schools provide children with a solid education, regardless of where they live or their parents’ income,” Congressman Lipinski said. “When schools fail to meet reasonable standards, we need to take action before another generation of children suffers the consequences. Reauthorizing this proven program will give kids stuck in failing schools a chance to live up to their full potential.” The Opportunity Scholarship Program has been rigorously evaluated and shown to have a strong positive effect on the students who take advantage of it. For instance, voucher use has been shown to significantly increase graduation rates. In addition, parents report high levels of satisfaction with their child’s new school. The reauthorization of the OSP contains a number of improvements, including new accountability, oversight, and teacher-quality standards. Requirements to objectively evaluate the impact of the program will remain in place. The bill also authorizes funding for the improvement of D.C. public and public charter schools. “Providing school choice should be part of a multi-faceted approach to improving our schools and increasing student achievement,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Voucher programs empower parents, giving them the opportunity to ‘vote with their feet’ by selecting the school that works best for their children. Unless parents are engaged in their children’s education, even the best policies, teachers, and schools cannot succeed. Government leaders need to help educators reach out to parents and guardians and make them full partners in their children’s education.” (January 26, 2011) ####
01.24.2011	Congressman Lipinski delivered the following speech on the House floor in celebration of Catholic Schools Week: Mr. Speaker, as a proud graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep, and as a strong supporter of Catholic education, I am again introducing a resolution to honor Catholic Schools Week and highlight the contributions to our nation made by America's Catholic schools. Unfortunately, changes in House rules will likely prohibit this resolution from being brought to the floor, so I want to talk about it tonight. Since 1974, the National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops have provided exemplary leadership in conceptualizing and organizing Catholic Schools Week. This year it is celebrated from January 30th thru February 5th. The theme, "Catholic Schools - A+ for America," celebrates the fact that Catholic schools are an added value, "a plus," for our nation. By always emphasizing the necessity of a well-rounded educational experience and instilling the values of giving back to the community and helping others, America's Catholic schools produce graduates that have the skills and strength of character needed by our businesses, governments, and communities. Nearly 95 percent of Catholic schools have a service program, and in 2009 their students contributed about half a million hours of service to their communities and parishes. My own desire to serve was fostered by dedicated teachers throughout my formative years at Catholic schools. Today, over 2.1 million elementary and secondary students are enrolled in over 7,000 Catholic schools. Catholic school students, on average, surpass other students in math, science, and reading in the three grade levels tested by the NAEP test. The graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99%, and 97% of Catholic high school graduates go on to college or technical schools. As we continually hear disturbing reports about our national test scores, these statistics are truly remarkable, and should be commended. Catholic schools are known for embracing students from all walks of life and are highly effective in providing educational opportunities for minority students and disadvantaged youth. Almost fifteen percent of students in Catholic schools are not Catholic. Over the past 30 years, the percentage of minority students enrolled in Catholic schools has more than doubled. Despite exceptional results, the success of Catholic schools does not depend on selectivity, as they accept nine out of every 10 students who apply. In addition to producing well-educated students, Catholic schools save American taxpayers billions of dollars every year by lowering the number of students in already overburdened public schools. In fact, it is estimated that taxpayers save over $1 billion from students attending Catholic schools in the Chicago area alone and approximately $20 billion nationwide. The importance of these savings is undeniable to American taxpayers, especially now, while many state and local governments are struggling with budget gaps. I was born and raised and live in the Chicago Archdiocese, which still has one of the most successful school systems in the country. More than 93,000 students attend 258 schools. In my district alone, there are seven Catholic high schools and approximately 50 grammar schools, including one of the best in my home parish -- St. John of the Cross in Western Springs. My Catholic education in Chicago gave me the knowledge, discipline, desire to serve, and love of learning that enabled me to earn my doctorate and become a teacher before being elected to Congress. In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we pay a special tribute to dedicated teachers and administrators who sacrifice so much, in most cases working for less than they could earn elsewhere. Many of my favorite memories are of teachers, including many nuns, who taught me the values of faith and service. Throughout the United States, millions of others have similar memories of their dedicated sisters, priests, and lay teachers who gave their hearts and souls to touch the lives of their students. Mr. Speaker, next week I look forward to attending Catholic Schools Week events in my district, to deliver the praise, support, and gratitude they deserve. I encourage my colleagues to do the same.
01.21.2011	In a bipartisan effort to protect Lake Michigan, Congressman Dan Lipinski and U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk were joined today by Sen. Dick Durbin and Congressman Robert Dold (R-Kenilworth) to announce they will introduce legislation that will increase fines for dumping sewage into the Great Lakes. Congressman Lipinski has worked with Sen. Kirk on similar legislation over the last two Congresses. "After working on this legislation over the past two Congresses, I believe we've assembled a strong, bipartisan core of support that will enable us to see it signed into law," Lipinski said at a press conference at the Shedd Aquarium. "The Great Lakes are our region's most precious natural resource, providing drinking water for 30 million people, unmatched recreational opportunities, and a livelihood for many. Yet each year brings news of more beach closings and swimming bans. We can't allow the dumping of billions of gallons of raw sewage into the same waters that we use for drinking, swimming, boating and fishing. We need to deter polluters while investing in projects that improve water quality, and this bill accomplishes that." The Great Lakes Water Protection Act would more than double fines for sewage dumping to $100,000 a day per violation and make it harder for offenders to avoid fines. Money collected from fines would flow to a Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund created by the legislation to generate financial resources for the Great Lakes states to improve wastewater treatment options, habitat protection, and wastewater treatment systems. "By joining forces on this important piece of legislation, we believe we can keep our Great Lakes—the crown jewel of the Midwest — clean and safe," Sen. Kirk said. "Not only does Lake Michigan provide millions of us with our drinking water, it is a vital economic engine to the entire region." "Our duty to future generations of Illinoisans is to protect the environment in which we live," Rep. Dold said. "There is much we can do right here at home by protecting Lake Michigan and its ecosystem. I'm proud to join with Congressman Lipinski and Senators Kirk and Durbin to work in a bipartisan manner to ensure our Great Lakes remain the crown jewel of the Midwest." Great Lakes beaches had over 3,000 days worth of closings and advisories last year, and Illinois beaches had warnings or closings 10 percent of the time. Chicago has taken many steps to limit sewer overflow, including such projects as the Deep Tunnel. Other cities dump directly into the Great Lakes. Detroit traditionally has been one of the worst offenders, dumping an estimated 13 billion gallons of sewage into the Great Lakes annually, figures show. "On Monday, I invited Rep. Dold to cross the aisle and sit with me during the State of the Union next week, and he readily agreed," Congressman Lipinski said. "That same spirit of unity and bipartisanship is what brought us all together to work on this bill. The American people want to see partisan bickering replaced with productive debate and problem-solving. Democrats and Republicans will always have their differences, but we must find ways to work together for the good of the country. This bill shows that bipartisan cooperation on substantive issues is very much possible." (January 21, 2011) ###
01.20.2011	Acting on his strong belief that Congress must fix the many problems with the health care reform law, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted today in favor of H. Res. 9, which directs various committees to draft selected health care reform measures. While the resolution is non-binding and does not fulfill the Republicans’ pledge to “repeal and replace” the health care law, it does provide a path toward making such changes as lowering costs through increased competition and choice as well as prohibiting taxpayer funding for abortion. At a time when partisan divisions risk leading to gridlock over health care, such opportunities must be seized upon. “I voted against the health care law last March because it is not fiscally sustainable, does little to reduce costs for most Americans, threatens seniors’ access to care by cutting Medicare funding, and permits federal funding for abortion,” Congressman Lipinski said. “It’s extremely important that we take action to fix these problems, while keeping in place some of the good parts of the law, such as banning lifetime and annual limits on coverage, extending coverage for dependents on their parents’ health plans, and banning discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. “The fact is that the Senate will not consider the Republican repeal bill the House voted on yesterday. That is all the more reason to press forward with developing legislation to fix our broken system in which middle-class Americans continue to struggle with skyrocketing health care costs. Both parties need to work together, listen to the American people, and agree on solutions that are capable of commanding the support of a broad majority. Doing so will enable us to replace the law with health care reform that expands coverage to more Americans and reins in health care costs without bankrupting taxpayers, without threatening coverage for seniors, and without changing the status quo prohibiting the federal funding of abortion.” Yesterday, in keeping with his call for bipartisan efforts to fix the health care law, Congressman Lipinski voted against the Republican bill to repeal the law because it did not contain a replacement plan, contrary to pledges to “repeal and replace.” The Republican bill did not even allow for a vote on amendments to maintain the beneficial parts of the law. “The choice should not be all-or-nothing, take-it-or-leave-it – between the prior status quo and the health care law exactly as written,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Even proponents of the law admit it’s not perfect, and even its biggest detractors concede the system we had in place previously needed serious improvement. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass fiscally responsible legislation that makes health care more affordable and accessible for all Americans.” (January 20, 2011) ###
01.20.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Green Bay Congressman Reid Ribble (WI-08) placed a friendly wager on Sunday’s highly anticipated NFC Championship showdown between the Chicago Bears and the Green Bay Packers. The 182nd meeting between two of the NFL’s most storied franchises will determine which team represents the National Football Conference in Super Bowl XLV on Feb. 6. “For Bears fans and Packers fans this game is bigger than the Super Bowl,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I’m looking forward to an epic contest in the tradition of George Halas and Vince Lombardi.” If the Bears emerge victorious, Congressman Ribble will sport a Bears tie for a day while the House is in session and deliver bratwursts from Maplewood Meats in Green Bay and fried cheese curds from Scray’s Cheese in De Pere to Congressman Lipinski’s office. In the very unlikely event the Packers win, Congressman Lipinski will wear a Packers tie and deliver pizza from the Third District’s Home Run Inn to Congressman Ribble’s office. “I’ve picked out the brightest Packers tie possible for Congressman Lipinski and am really looking forward to a lovely Chicago-style pizza next week,” Congressman Ribble said. The last time the Bears and Packers met in a playoff game was on Dec. 14, 1941. On that occasion, Chicago defeated Green Bay 33-14 at Wrigley Field. “I can’t wait to watch my colleague from across the aisle and over the border sport the Bears’ navy blue and orange on his way through the halls of Congress,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But once I’ve enjoyed that spectacle, along with a good brat – I’ll skip the cheese curds – I hope we’ll have a chance to sit down and figure out what we can agree upon to work together to get done this Congress.” (January 20, 2011) ####
01.19.2011	In keeping with his call for bipartisan efforts to fix the deeply flawed health care law passed last year, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted against a Republican bill to repeal the law because it failed to contain a replacement plan, contrary to pledges to “repeal and replace.” Congressman Lipinski will continue working to make much-needed fixes to the health care law, which he voted against last March. “I voted against the health care bill last March because it is not fiscally sustainable, does little to reduce costs for most Americans, threatens seniors’ access to care by cutting Medicare funding, and permits federal funding for abortion,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But while Republicans promised to repeal the old law and replace it with a better plan, this bill only contains a repeal. We could not even offer amendments that would have allowed us to vote to keep some of the good parts of the law passed last year that will reform health insurance by banning lifetime and annual limits on coverage, extending coverage for dependents on their parents’ health plans, and banning discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. “To repeal without replacing puts us right back where we started, with a health care system in dire need of improvement and no impetus for reform. “It is clear that this repeal bill will never even be considered in the Senate. And even if it were, the choice should not be all-or-nothing, take-it-or-leave-it – between the prior status quo and the health care law exactly as written. Even proponents of the law admit it’s not perfect, and even its biggest detractors concede the system we had in place needed serious improvements. Instead of voting on this repeal we should be using the time to work on the middle class priorities of promoting job creation and developing a good replacement to fix a broken health care system in which Americans continue to struggle with skyrocketing costs. “Improving our health care system ought to be a bipartisan effort. When Democrats wrote a bill with little input from Republicans, the American people were not happy with the result, and neither was I. Now we see the other party acting similarly. My position is the same as it has always been: both parties need to work together, listen to the American people, and agree on solutions that are capable of commanding the support of a broad majority. When we do this, we will be able to replace the deeply flawed law passed last year with health care reform that expands coverage to more Americans while also reining in health care costs without bankrupting taxpayers, without threatening coverage for seniors, and without changing the status quo prohibiting the federal funding of abortion.” On Thursday the Republicans will bring to the floor a non-binding resolution requesting that various committees draft selected health care reform measures. Congressman Lipinski will vote in favor of the resolution because, although it does not constitute the promised replacement of the health care law, it is a step in the right direction and provides a path toward making such changes as lowering costs through increased competition and choice as well as prohibiting taxpayer funding for abortion. (January 19, 2011) ###
01.19.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding Chinese President Hu Jintao’s visit to Washington and Chicago: “America’s own interests dictate that it continue to forge a working diplomatic relationship with China, now the world’s second largest economy. President Hu’s visit this week reflects that geopolitical reality. But that does not mean that we should overlook China’s unfair trade policies – a view expressed in a bipartisan letter I helped send to President Obama last night urging him to make it clear that China’s consistent violations of international trade law will no longer be tolerated. Nor should we gloss over China’s refusal to respect individual liberty and its persistent harassment and repression of its own people. “It is no coincidence that over the last 10 years, as China’s economy has boomed, employment in America’s manufacturing sector has plummeted by nearly a third. China’s manipulation of its currency has left it drastically undervalued, making it difficult for American manufacturers to compete in both their home and overseas markets. Allowing the free market to set the renminbi’s value would create an estimated 500,000 American jobs. As is well known, China has ignored its World Trade Organization commitments in numerous cases. It has provided illegal subsidies to its clean energy sector, dumped steel on the U.S. market, and insisted that American companies share their technology with Chinese firms in order to operate in China. Its recent decision to suspend exports of rare earth materials – which are essential for a variety of high-tech and defense products and over which it has a virtual monopoly – sets a disturbing precedent. Meanwhile, Chinese firms engage in industrial espionage against American companies, seeking to reap the benefits of their innovation without doing any of the hard work or making the necessary investment. “Washington needs to make it clear to China that if it refuses to play by the rules, there will be consequences. The House took a step toward doing so in September when it passed, with my strong support, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act to make it easier to combat China’s currency manipulation. Congress should take up this measure again as soon as possible. “Economic policy is not all that divides China and the United States. China continues to repress its people, imprisoning those who dare to voice dissent and going to extraordinary lengths to prevent the free circulation of ideas. Its treatment of democracy activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo is but one example of the contempt it often shows for individual rights. It is important that America’s leaders continue to speak up in defense of basic democratic principles and of those courageous Chinese citizens who support and defend them at the risk of their freedom.” (January 19, 2011) ###
01.14.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) called on Southwest Airlines to take action to reduce delays at Midway Airport, which placed last in on-time departure performance among the nation’s 29 busiest airports from December 2009 through November 2010. “When nearly three out of ten flights are late taking off, there’s a problem that needs to be fixed,” said Congressman Lipinski, the only Chicagoland member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “As a critical source of jobs and an economic engine for the Third District and the entire Chicago region, Midway must function smoothly, especially given that travelers have other options. I know Southwest can do better.” In a letter addressed to Southwest President and CEO Gary C. Kelly, Congressman Lipinski requests information on the airline’s challenges and obstacles to on-time performance at Midway; the measures it is taking to prevent late takeoffs; and the impact of the airline’s merger with AirTran on future performance at Midway. The letter also was sent to U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. Southwest carries more than 85 percent of Midway passengers, making its performance a key determinant of the airport’s overall on-time record. Prior to last year, Midway recorded fewer delays – less than a quarter of all takeoffs were delayed by 15 minutes or more in both 2008 and 2009. Midway generates approximately $7 billion in economic activity annually and 90,000 jobs. It attracted more than 17 million passengers in 2009 thanks to its close proximity to downtown, accessibility to the residents of Southwest Chicagoland, and affordability. “I look forward to your response and to continuing to work with you in the effort to improve service at the Chicago Midway International Airport,” Congressman Lipinski’s letter states. “Improving service at Midway is not only critical to my Congressional district and greater Chicagoland, but necessary to improve efficiency of the national air transportation network.” (January 14, 2011) ###
01.08.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement: “My thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, her staff, and all those who were killed or injured in today’s shooting, as well as their families. This was an unconscionable and abhorrent act of violence. It represents a rejection not just of every principle this country stands for, but of all civilized society and human decency. Nothing could justify such an attack on any person, whether a public official or an ordinary citizen. Nor is it possible to imagine anyone harboring such extraordinary hatred for Congresswoman Giffords, whom I have had the pleasure of getting to know as a fellow member of the Science and Technology Committee. She is as friendly, hard-working, and down-to-earth as anyone you could hope to meet, and I truly hope she makes a full recovery.” ###
01.05.2011	As the 112th Congress begins today, I want to thank the people of the Third District for giving me the honor and privilege of serving them for another two-year term. I will continue to represent them to the best of my ability, with my top priority being to bring people together to solve the problems our nation faces. First and foremost, we need to get Americans back to work. The first vote that members cast in any new Congress is for Speaker of the House. While the position of Speaker is an incredibly important one, the vote on the first day of the new Congress is almost always a forgone conclusion, with the majority party having chosen the Speaker in a private caucus. Therefore the roll call vote on the floor is largely symbolic. When I was called to vote, I cast my vote for Marcy Kaptur, a Polish-American Democrat from Toledo, Ohio, who is the most senior woman in the House of Representatives, beginning her 15th term. During her long career in the House, Ms. Kaptur has always been a strong voice for American workers, especially those working in manufacturing in the Midwest, and like myself was a fierce opponent of the Wall Street bailout. American manufacturing workers have been hit hard in the past decade, especially during this terrible recession that we are still trying to dig our way out of. I voted for Ms. Kaptur both to honor her service in the House and to call attention to those issues that both of us continue to fight hard for in Congress – promoting American jobs and helping the forgotten hard-working middle-class Americans who continue to struggle. During her time in Congress, Marcy has also been a courageous pro-life voice, and has been very active on issues important to American relations with Central Europe, especially Poland, and to all those Americans who trace their ancestry to that region. (January 5, 2011) ###
01.04.2011	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that his efforts to enforce Defense Department compliance with the Buy American Act have resulted in the re-bidding of a forklift contract that otherwise would have gone to a foreign manufacturer. This will give Bedford Park-based Hoist Liftruck Mfg. Inc. a chance to compete for the business and help keep jobs in the Third District. “I’m extremely pleased that I was able to help out a Third District manufacturer and prevent American taxpayer dollars from being used to purchase foreign-made products,” Congressman Lipinski said. “This was yet another case where the federal government ignored the Buy American rules on the books, putting American jobs at risk. After a decade of manufacturing job losses, and with 15 million Americans out of work, that’s completely unacceptable.” The Defense Department’s initial contract award would have resulted in the purchase of three forklifts made by a Korean company, despite the fact that the Buy American Act gives priority to products made in America in such cases. After Hoist Liftruck protested the decision and Congressman Lipinski demanded that existing rules be applied, the Defense Department reviewed its decision, admitted its error, and decided to re-bid the contract. “As a U.S. manufacturing stalwart, Hoist Liftruck is proud to be the preferred vendor for high-capacity forklifts for a variety of industries,” said Randy Jahn, Director of Business Development for Hoist. “We’re looking forward to competing for this contract again, and we want to thank Congressman Lipinski for his help in making this happen and for his support for local manufacturing and local jobs.” Congressman Lipinski is a longtime advocate for requiring the federal government to Buy American whenever possible. He has introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 4351, to eliminate loopholes in existing Buy American laws. He is also the author of the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, which will help revitalize domestic manufacturing, create jobs, and ensure America is able to provide for its own defense without relying on foreign countries. The House passed the bill in July. “It’s bad enough that our government hasn’t done more to defend American workers from the unfair trade practices of foreign governments,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But for the government to literally fill the pockets of overseas workers with taxpayer money is even worse – especially when we have laws that are designed to prevent it from doing so. I also strongly believe that maintaining a thriving U.S. manufacturing sector is critical to our national security, and that the Defense Department should purchase American-made products whenever possible. That’s why I’m going to continue to defend American manufacturing, fight to strengthen Buy American rules, and work to keep and create jobs right here in the Third District.” Bedford Park-based Hoist Liftruck began in 1980, when Marty Flaska started buying, selling, and renting material-handling equipment from his house in the western suburbs of Chicago. After a decade of growth, Flaska acquired the rights to build cushion-tire forklifts from Brooklyn-based Silent Hoist and Crane and transformed the company into Hoist Liftruck. With annual sales of approximately $35 million, it has 110 employees. (January 4, 2011) ###
12.17.2010	Today, Research and Science Education Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped lead passage of bipartisan legislation to create jobs and improve American competitiveness by investing in manufacturing, science education, and advanced research. Congressman Lipinski is a co-author of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act, H.R. 5116, which the President is now expected to sign into law. “As unemployment remains painfully high and our students continue to fall behind in math and science, Americans are asking, ‘What can be done to make the future better?’” Lipinski said on the House floor. “Although it is unlikely to gain headlines, the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act is a critical part of the answer. This approach to research, education, and innovation will lead to more jobs, a better prepared and better educated domestic workforce, and an economy built for long-term success. “Over the last decade, we’ve seen domestic manufacturers shed millions of jobs as Chinese and other foreign-made goods flooded our country. The COMPETES Act is critical to reversing that trend and setting America on a path to long-term, sustainable economic growth. It will bolster science, technology, engineering, and math education for our children, equipping America’s next generation to thrive in the fast-paced global economy. It will provide scientists with the support they need to make breakthrough discoveries capable of launching new industries, drawing on such models as the Defense Department research program that laid the foundation for the Internet. And, as I fought for over many months, this bill promotes manufacturing innovation in a variety of ways to make sure that the latest high-tech products are not just designed here but also stamped ‘Made in the U.S.A.’ I’m especially pleased that some important ideas from my National Manufacturing Strategy Act were included in the final version of the legislation.” Passed by the House in July, the Congressman’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act influenced the final version of H.R. 5116, which now mandates development of a National Economic Competitiveness Strategy. Like the NMSA, this strategy requires the government and private sector representatives to conduct a wide-ranging assessment of American competitiveness; the impact of federal trade, export, and other policies; and the state of the manufacturing sector. The results will then be used to develop recommendations for strengthening the U.S. industrial base and promoting economy-wide innovation. The COMPETES Act also includes Congressman Lipinski’s National Science Foundation reauthorization, H.R. 4997, which includes the authorization of a new high-tech manufacturing research program. As called for by the Congressman, the bill requires the government to provide manufacturers with improved access to powerful supercomputers at National Laboratories that can help increase product innovation, reduce costs, and ultimately create jobs. In addition, it provides loan guarantees for manufacturers for the use or production of innovative technologies. In keeping with language Congressman Lipinski included in the House version of COMPETES, the bill features a program to offer cash prizes for solving crucial scientific problems. Such prizes have a long history and a strong track record of sparking notable achievements and discoveries. “Recent months have brought further confirmation that America is at risk of losing its competitive edge and desperately needs to make the investments contained in this bill,” Congressman Lipinski said. “For instance, new international test results show American students continue to lag behind many of their overseas peers in math and science. But I believe passage of this measure with the support of both Republicans and Democrats provides cause for optimism. The COMPETES reauthorization puts us on a path to double investment in basic research programs; supports transformative research in key areas such as clean energy; improves science, technology, engineering, and math education; invests in research to enhance the manufacturing sector’s productivity and innovation; and improves programs to ensure researchers’ discoveries translate into new products, jobs, and companies. Above all, it represents a vote of confidence in the unparalleled scientific and technological ingenuity of the American people.” (December 17, 2010 ###
12.17.2010	On Thursday, Congressman Dan Lipinski was joined by officials from Oak Lawn, the Federal Railroad Administration, and Metra to announce completion of a new quiet zone that prevents trains from sounding their horns in Oak Lawn on the Norfolk Southern/Southwest Service line. Congressman Lipinski played a key role in bringing together Oak Lawn and FRA officials and reaching an agreement on the terms for establishing the quiet zone. “At a time of year when the song ‘Silent Night’ is often heard and sung, it’s a great feeling to be able to bring some well-deserved peace and quiet to the residents of Oak Lawn,” Congressman Lipinski said. “This quiet zone was a long time coming, and making it happen took a lot of work. But now that it’s here, I know the people and businesses along Metra’s Southwest Service line will truly appreciate not being woken up out of a sound sleep, or startled in the middle of the day, by blaring train horns.” “For years we’ve been hearing these blaring train horns and one of the things I really wanted to see us accomplish was the establishment of quiet zones,” Oak Lawn Mayor Dave Heilmann said. “Today, I'm pleased that we were able to restore peace and quiet to countless village residents. I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for his success in bringing the village and the FRA together, all of the dedicated staffers with the Village of Oak Lawn, and everyone else who worked hard to make sure the quiet zone became a reality.” The completed quiet zone took effect on Dec. 14. It includes the crossings at Cicero Ave., 95th St., Kilbourn Ave., 52nd Ave., Cook Ave., 54th Ave., and Central Ave. A smaller quiet zone encompassing the Cicero Ave. and 95th St. crossings only was established in March. The FRA requires locomotives to sound their horns at public highway-rail grade crossings, but communities that meet specific safety criteria can establish quiet zones where trains need not use their horns. Trains may still sound their horns for immediate safety reasons. Numerous safety enhancements were made by Oak Lawn to allow establishment of the quiet zone. “With so many train lines and crossings in my district, I continue to work to maximize the benefits they bring, while minimizing the inconveniences,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I’m glad I was able to bring the FRA and the village of Oak Lawn together to get this done, and I also want to thank Metra and Norfolk Southern for all their efforts.” (December 17, 2010) ###
12.16.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted for the bipartisan compromise that temporarily extends tax cuts for all Americans and provides other help for middle-class families. “During these tough economic times we cannot afford to raise taxes, especially on the struggling middle class,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Extending the tax cuts and lowering the payroll tax will put more money into the pockets of the people who need it most, and enable them to use it as they see fit, helping to promote growth and job creation.” “There has been much criticism of some of the provisions of this compromise,” Lipinski continued. “I am not happy that the bill does not include the direct help to seniors on Social Security that I have been strongly promoting since benefits were frozen for this year and next year. Since I have been in Congress I have supported a compromise on the estate tax that I believe is better than the one included in this bill. And I believe the payroll tax cut could be done in a better way to protect the future of the Social Security Trust Fund. “But the nature of compromise is that no one gets everything they want,” Lipinski said. “After a week of hearing claims that it would be possible to improve upon the compromise worked out by the President and the Republicans, I concluded that it is probably not possible to make any significant substantive changes without threatening the agreement. That is a chance I do not want to take, since it would result in everyone’s taxes going up on January 1 and we would likely not be able to pass most of the good provisions of this compromise in the new Congress. I voted present on the estate tax amendment because while I supported that change, I did not want to endanger the entire agreement by sending the bill back to the gridlocked Senate.” H.R. 4853 extends the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts for all Americans for two years, preventing a tax increase of $2,000 for a typical family, and allowing Congress to revisit the issue in light of concerns about the national debt once the economy has recovered. The bill includes a 2 percent reduction in the payroll tax for next year, which will provide total tax relief of around $120 billion. It also extends emergency unemployment relief, the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and capital gains and dividend tax cuts, and prevents millions of taxpayers from being hurt by the alternative minimum tax. In addition, it allows businesses to deduct the full cost of capital expenditures next year to encourage job-creating investments. Congressman Lipinski has supported a temporary extension of all tax rates and voted last month for a bill in the House which would have extended the tax cuts for the middle class. “I am pleased that bipartisan negotiations were able to produce a bill that members of both parties could agree on,” Congressman Lipinski said. “While it did not suit everyone in every respect – myself included – I believe the bill represents a sensible compromise. It is good for families, small businesses, and our economy as whole. I have always believed and always acted on the belief that Democrats, Republicans, and Independents should all work together to promote policies that are good for our country, especially the middle class. I am hopeful that this compromise helps lead to progress on many of the important challenges our nation is facing.” (December 16, 2010) ###
12.15.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted to repeal the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy and prevent the disruption that could occur if the courts impose an immediate repeal by judicial fiat. Congressman Lipinski also cited the results of the Pentagon’s comprehensive review of the issue and the testimony of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Both Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen concluded that repeal can be accomplished without compromising military readiness. “In May, I voted against repealing ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ because I thought it was an affront to our military to proceed with such a consequential change of policy prior to completion of the Pentagon’s scheduled report on the impact of repeal. Today, Congress has that review in hand and has had ample time to study its conclusions, which are based on the responses of 115,000 members of our military, and which show that, in the words of Admiral Mullen, ‘our troops and their families are ready for this.’ “In the meantime, this issue has reached the courts. In September, a federal judge in California ruled the policy unconstitutional and ordered the military to stop enforcing DADT, before an appellate court stayed that order pending an appeal that will be heard next year. Without action by Congress, a judge could impose repeal in the very near future, preventing our military from proceeding with the orderly implementation process that will help to assure combat readiness is maintained. I do not believe this is a matter for the courts to decide, and I do not think we can discard literally overnight a policy that has been in effect for 17 years. “That said, the Pentagon’s very thorough study and plan for implementing repeal has answered many of my questions and eliminated many – though not all – of my concerns. The study’s authors – including General Carter F. Ham, the commander of the U.S. Army in Europe – reported that they are ‘convinced that our military can do this, even during this time of war.’ The study found that a large majority of the military believes repealing DADT will have little or no effect on readiness and that a large majority has already worked with a gay man or woman without detriment to unit cohesion and effectiveness. Nevertheless, it did not brush over the concerns of some members, and it acknowledges that leadership and careful preparation and education are critical. “In making my decision, I paid particularly close attention to the carefully considered views and honest testimony of Secretary Gates and Admiral Mullen. Secretary Gates made it clear that allowing the courts to act in Congress’s place would be unwise. He stated: ‘There is the very real possibility that this change would be imposed immediately by judicial fiat – by far the most disruptive and damaging scenario I can imagine…Given the present circumstances, those who choose not to act legislatively are rolling the dice that this policy will not be abruptly overturned by the courts…The working group’s plan, with its strong emphasis on education, training and leader development, provides a solid road map for a successful full implementation of the repeal…[Repeal] can be done, and it should be done, without posing a serious risk to military readiness.’ “While I would have preferred not to have cast this vote in a lame duck session, Congress previously voted on this issue, the Pentagon’s report is complete, and an appellate court hearing on the matter is looming. I cast my vote after careful consideration, having weighed the evidence, and knowing that our freedom and security depend on the courage, sacrifice, and patriotism of our troops.” (December 15, 2010) ###
12.15.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced he will vote for the bipartisan compromise that temporarily extends tax cuts for all Americans and provides other help for middle-class families. “During these tough economic times we cannot afford to raise taxes, especially on the struggling middle class,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Extending the tax cuts and lowering the payroll tax will put more money into the pockets of the people who need it most, and enable them to use it as they see fit, helping to promote growth and job creation.” “There has been much criticism of some of the provisions of this compromise,” Lipinski continued. “I am not happy that the bill does not include the direct help to seniors on Social Security that I have been strongly promoting since benefits were frozen for this year and next year. Since I have been in Congress I have supported a compromise on the estate tax that I believe is better than the one included in this bill. And I believe the payroll tax cut could be done in a better way to protect the future of the Social Security Trust Fund. “But the nature of compromise is that no one gets everything they want,” Lipinski said. “After a week of hearing claims that it would be possible to improve upon the compromise worked out by the President and the Republicans, I concluded that it is probably not possible to make any significant substantive changes without threatening the agreement. That is a chance I do not want to take, since it would result in everyone’s taxes going up on January 1 and we would likely not be able to pass most of the good provisions of this compromise in the new Congress.” H.R. 4853 extends the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts for all Americans for two years, preventing a tax increase of $2,000 for a typical family, and allowing Congress to revisit the issue in light of concerns about the national debt once the economy has recovered. The bill includes a 2 percent reduction in the payroll tax for next year, which will provide total tax relief of around $120 billion. It also extends emergency unemployment relief, the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and capital gains and dividend tax cuts, and prevents millions of taxpayers from being hurt by the alternative minimum tax. In addition, it allows businesses to deduct the full cost of capital expenditures next year to encourage job-creating investments. Congressman Lipinski has supported a temporary extension of all tax rates and voted last month for a bill in the House which would have extended the tax cuts for the middle class. “I am pleased that bipartisan negotiations were able to produce a bill that members of both parties could agree on,” Congressman Lipinski said. “While it did not suit everyone in every respect – myself included – I believe the bill represents a sensible compromise. It is good for families, small businesses, and our economy as whole. I have always believed and always acted on the belief that Democrats, Republicans, and Independents should all work together to promote policies that are good for our country, especially the middle class. I am hopeful that this compromise helps lead to progress on many of the important challenges our nation is facing.” (December 15, 2010) ###
12.13.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) honored Army Staff Sgt. Salvatore Giunta, the first living person to receive the Medal of Honor for action in any war since Vietnam, at a ceremony at the North Riverside Armory. “It is impossible not to experience a sense of awe when contemplating Staff Sgt. Giunta’s courageous efforts to rescue members of his platoon in Korengal Valley, Afghanistan, on Oct. 25, 2007. With nothing more than his body armor, his weapon, and his wits for protection, he repeatedly charged into a hail of enemy bullets at the risk of his own life in order to protect and retrieve his fallen comrades. In so doing, he earned a permanent place in the gallery of American heroes. It is a sign of Staff Sgt. Giunta’s profound selflessness and humility that he has repeatedly stated he is only one service member among tens of thousands, and his acts of courage ought to be considered alongside the countless others performed that night and in recent years by the members of our Armed Forces in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere. But if Staff Sgt. Giunta can claim to be an ordinary soldier, it is only because our men and women in uniform are daily called upon to do the extraordinary, and daily answer that call. It was a true honor to have the opportunity to thank Staff Sgt. Giunta in person for his courageous service. He embodies the best that our military has to offer, he is a credit to our nation, and his heroism will never be forgotten.” The Medal of Honor is America’s highest award for valor, and recognizes those who “distinguish (themselves) conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of (their lives), above and beyond the call of duty.” (December 13, 2010) ####
12.10.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was pleased to welcome Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski Wednesday during Komorowski's first official trip to the United States. Lipinski was a special guest at the President's first policy speech in the United States at the German Marshall Fund. "As a Polish-American and Chairman of the House Polish Caucus, I was proud to welcome President Bronislaw Komorowski to the United States," Lipinski said. "His strong leadership and commitment to democracy in the months following the tragic death of former Polish President Lech Kaczynski demonstrated that he has the resolve and determination to successfully lead the Polish people. I was happy to hear what President Komorowski had to say about U.S.-Polish relations, strengthening economic ties between the two nations, and Polish-Russian relations." Congressman Lipinski is a leading advocate for the inclusion of Poland in an expansion of the Visa Waiver Program, which allows visitors from participating nations to enter the United States for up to 90 days without a visa. In the aftermath of the April 10, 2010 plane crash that claimed the lives of Kaczynski, his wife Maria Kaczynska, and 94 others, Congressman Lipinski sponsored H. Res. 1246, expressing sympathy to the people of Poland and led the House of Representatives in a moment of silence following passage of the bill. In October of last year, Lipinski introduced and led passage of H. Res. 266, commemorating 90 years of U.S.-Polish diplomatic relations. "The challenges facing Poland remain similar to those facing the United States," Lipinski said. "Both countries remain dedicated to promoting democracy and growing our respective economies in the face of a worldwide recession. Through cooperation and mutual initiatives, the U.S. and Poland stand to benefit greatly from continued diplomatic and economic ties. I am glad President Komorowski was able to visit the United States, and I look forward to a positive relationship with his administration." (December 10, 2010) ###
12.09.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted to prevent a sharp cut in Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors that threatened seniors’ access to medical care. Both the House and Senate have now passed the legislation, and the President is expected to sign it. “Allowing the scheduled 25 percent rate cut to take effect on Jan. 1 would be a disaster for seniors,” Congressman Lipinski said. “It would reduce the number of doctors willing to treat Medicare recipients, preventing many seniors from seeing the doctor who is most familiar with them and making it more difficult to find a new doctor or secure an appointment. Passage of this bill will help ensure access to care for those who need it most, while not increasing the deficit.” The legislation, H.R. 4994, is fully paid for through changes to the health care reform law, which Congressman Lipinski voted against in part because it would cut hundreds of billions of dollars from Medicare, negatively impacting seniors. H.R. 4994 also renews the Special Diabetes Program. As a diabetic, Congressman Lipinski is a strong supporter of this program, which funds critical diabetes research and prevention efforts. The bill invests $300 million in the program, which has produced tangible positive results. Congressman Lipinski previously cosponsored legislation to renew the SDP. Nearly 24 million adults and children in the United States have diabetes and 1.6 million cases of diabetes are diagnosed in people aged 20 and older each year. Diabetes is the seventh-leading cause of death in the country, the leading cause of new cases of blindness among adults aged 20 to 74 years, and the leading cause of kidney failure. The total cost of the disease in direct medical spending and indirect costs such as lost work days and disability is estimated at $174 billion annually. “I continue to work to make sure our nation fulfills its obligations to our seniors,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I’m also proud to support research that will improve the prevention and treatment of diabetes, which afflicts people of all ages, but which is especially prevalent among Americans 60 and older.” (December 9, 2010) ###
12.08.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for the Seniors Protection Act, H.R. 5987, to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time $250 payment to make up for the fact that there will be no Social Security cost-of-living increase next year. 2011 would be the second consecutive year without such an increase, despite the fact that medical and other costs for seniors continue to rise and the recession has not spared them or their families. Unfortunately, the bill did not pass the House. “Now more than ever, we need to make sure that seniors’ Social Security checks keep pace with their costs,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Congress’s failure to pass this bill shows that too many in Washington still haven’t gotten the message and aren’t listening to the people they represent. Across the country, families are hurting, and seniors are no exception. Third District retirees have repeatedly told me that health care and other prices are going up, and that the formula used to calculate their benefits simply isn’t capturing that reality. Meanwhile, the turmoil of the last several years has severely impacted the savings and home values of retirees. To not provide a cost-of-living increase to seniors during the worst economy in recent memory simply isn’t right.” Congressman Lipinski previously cosponsored H.R. 3810, The Emergency Senior Citizens Relief Act, to give seniors a one-time $250 payment in 2010. Annual Social Security cost-of-living adjustments are not decided by Congress. Instead, under the law, they are determined by an inflation gauge known as the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers. But as its name suggests, that index was designed to measure the inflation experienced by urban wage earners, not seniors, who spend a higher percentage of their income on items such as health care. That is why Congressman Lipinski helped introduce the CPI for Seniors Act, H.R. 5305, which creates a new inflation index that would more accurately measure the cost increases faced by older Americans. Seniors’ Social Security benefits amount to $14,000 annually on average. Social Security is the primary source of income for almost two-thirds of retirees, and for one-third of recipients provides 90 percent or more of their income. “Prior to 2010, the last time seniors were forced to make do without a cost-of-living increase was 1975,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Now, they’re looking at two years in a row without an increase. I’m going to keep fighting for seniors, just as I always have, and working to make sure that they receive what they need especially during these tough economic times.” (December 8, 2010) ###
12.08.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted against the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act, H.R. 5281, because it provides amnesty for some illegal immigrants, thereby inviting more illegal immigration and harming American workers. The House of Representatives passed the bill by a vote of 216-198. “If you look past the rhetoric, you will find that this bill would allow upwards of 2 million people who are in this country illegally to become citizens,” Congressman Lipinski said. “As a result, it will encourage more people to enter our country illegally, compete for all-too-scarce jobs, and drive down wages for struggling American workers. At the same time, it does nothing to increase the security of our borders. To its everlasting credit, America has been a land of freedom, tolerance, and opportunity for generations of immigrants, who in turn have enriched its culture, society, and economy. But that does not mean we should reward those who come here illegally while countless others patiently abide by our laws and await their turn for legal entry. However well-intentioned this legislation may be, it is an unwise policy whose long-term consequences will be detrimental to the health of our nation. “I sympathize with the plight of those who were brought here illegally as children and have worked hard to educate and better themselves. But passing this bill will only encourage more parents – who know very well what they are doing and the risks to which they are subjecting their children – to come here illegally, placing more children in the same situation.” Under H.R. 5281, individuals who are illegally present in the United States for the five years prior to the bill’s enactment and who entered the country before age 16 would be eligible for conditional legal status if they graduate high school or receive a GED. They would then be eligible to become permanent residents if they spend just two years in college – the bill does not require graduation or set academic standards beyond maintaining “good standing.” Alternatively, they would be eligible to become permanent residents if they spend two years in the Armed Forces – less service than is required for ROTC scholarship recipients, for instance. Thus, under the bill, relatively brief stints in college or the military would enable illegal immigrants to stay in the country and compete for jobs for 10 years or possibly longer. After that, they could become permanent residents, allowing them to qualify for benefits such as Medicaid and food stamps, and then apply for full citizenship. The bill does not specify what constitutes proof of having lived in the country for at least five years, opening the process to abuse from the beginning. At the opposite end of the process, those who become citizens would be able to petition for the entry of family members, providing an incentive for parents to enter the country illegally with their children. In addition, by granting conditional legal status to illegal immigrants, the bill would enable them to receive taxpayer-subsidized federal student loans for which they would otherwise be ineligible. The bill also includes a loophole allowing for extensions of conditional legal status in cases where removal from the United States would constitute an “extremely unusual hardship,” a phrase that is left open to interpretation. Meanwhile, the Congressional Budget Office found that the Senate version of the legislation would increase deficits by at least $5 billion starting in 2021. Studies have shown that it is precisely the most vulnerable American workers whose wages suffer the most as a result of illegal immigration. These workers already face extremely high unemployment due to the recession and are having difficulty making ends meet. Supporters claim the legislation would not encourage further illegal immigration because it only applies to individuals who have been in the country for the five years prior to enactment. But the bill clearly sets a precedent, raising the likelihood that another such measure would be passed in the future, especially since there is no increased border security or internal enforcement contained in the bill. “In the years since amnesty was granted to illegal immigrants in 1986, illegal immigration has soared, and there are now an estimated 12 million people living illegally in our country,” Congressman Lipinski said. “A policy that fails to learn from this history is doomed to repeat it. We need to defend American workers, not force them to compete in a race to the bottom with people who have violated our laws.” The bill was brought to the floor using an unusual maneuver that eliminated any opportunity to offer amendments. Congressman Lipinski voted against considering the bill under this rule. (December 8, 2010) ###
12.06.2010	Today, Research and Science Education Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) expressed his strong support for the National Nanotechnology Initiative’s draft Strategic Plan, in particular its focus on ensuring that America’s substantial investment in nanotech research and development is turned into new companies, products, and jobs. “I firmly believe that nanotechnology has enormous potential to create domestic jobs, and as a result I strongly support the draft strategy’s emphasis on technology transfer and commercialization,” Congressman Lipinski stated in a letter to John P. Holdren, Assistant to the President for Science and Technology and Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. “Over the past decade the NNI agencies have invested billions of dollars in nanotech research, and as a result we have seen tremendous advancements in materials science and engineering. But we cannot afford to let these discoveries follow the unfortunate pattern of American innovations turning into products manufactured in China or Japan. The proposals in this draft are a good first step toward avoiding this problem and creating the kind of good-paying high-tech jobs we need.” Nanotechnology has the potential to have a transformative effect on numerous fields, and in some cases is already beginning to realize that potential. In medicine, it could lead to devices able to detect cancer in its early stages. In the clean energy industry, it is reducing the cost of solar panels and increasing the efficiency of batteries for alternative-fuel vehicles. In information technology, it is needed to enable continued increases in processor speeds. And in manufacturing, exceptionally strong, light, and durable nanomaterials can be used to improve existing products and create new ones. Nanotechnology involves manipulating materials as small as a single nanometer. A sheet of paper is about 100,000 nanometers thick. In his letter, Congressman Lipinski commends the draft Strategic Plan’s proposal to double federal investment in nanomanufacturing research and increase public-private partnerships that can boost commercialization. In addition, he applauds the plan’s three Signature Initiatives, especially the sustainable nanomanufacturing initiative. Since nanotechnology’s promise can only be fulfilled if suitable manufacturing processes are developed, this initiative aims to develop industrial-scale, safe, and environmentally sustainable methods for manufacturing nanodevices for a variety of applications. “After a decade that saw American manufacturers shed 5.6 million jobs, we must seize the opportunity to revitalize this critical sector by translating nanotechnology research into jobs and economic growth,” Congressman Lipinski said. “In my home state of Illinois, research performed at the state’s eight NNI-supported Centers of Excellence has helped lead to a variety of startups with names like Nanosphere, Nanophase, NanoInk, and Nanotope. But there’s no doubt we need to accelerate commercialization, and I’m pleased that the Strategic Plan takes that obligation seriously. With the right vision and the right execution, I’m convinced nanotechnology will be the foundation of the next industrial revolution.” One of the few members of Congress who holds an engineering degree, Congressman Lipinski wrote a bill reauthorizing the National Science Foundation; cosponsored and helped pass in the House last year the National Nanotechnology Initiative Amendments Act, which would have reauthorized the NNI; and this year helped pass in the House the America COMPETES Act, which includes both pieces of legislation. He is also a strong supporter of domestic manufacturing, having authored the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, which passed the House in July with bipartisan support. The NNI coordinates nanotech research across 25 federal agencies and has helped create a network of state-of-the-art nanoscale research centers. It is required to produce periodic Strategic Plans outlining its vision, goals, and R&D investment strategy. (December 6, 2010) ###
12.02.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding his vote to censure Representative Charles Rangel: “Today, I voted to censure Representative Charles Rangel. Prior to doing so, I stood firm and voted against reducing his punishment to a reprimand, parting ways with 146 of my colleagues. “I do not take such votes lightly. This was the first time during my six years in Congress that I have had to render such judgment and witness the censure of a colleague. Passing judgment on another Member of Congress is a serious matter, and one that requires deliberation of the evidence of the case, the conduct of the Member, and the attitude the Member takes towards their conduct. “Rep. Rangel has demonstrated a deep commitment to his nation and his constituents, serving with distinction in the U.S. Army during the Korean War, and representing his district for 20 terms. Unfortunately, there is sufficient evidence that he broke the House rules, violated federal laws, and undermined the public’s trust in not only himself, but the entire House of Representatives. “Based on the investigation and the adjudicatory process of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct (the ‘ethics committee’), Rep. Rangel used official stationary and House resources to solicit donations for a university center that bears his name, including from entities with business before the Ways and Means Committee he then chaired. The ethics committee also determined that financial disclosure statements that Rep. Rangel submitted contained numerous errors and omissions, including failure to report and pay tax on rental income derived from a beach villa in the Dominican Republic. The committee also found that he derived an undue benefit by maintaining his residence and campaign office in a rent controlled apartment in New York City. Finally, the ethics committee determined that “because of the substantial responsibilities of his position [as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee], it is appropriate to hold him to a higher standard”; that his actions “represented an ongoing pattern of behavior, as opposed to isolated incidents”; and that his “actions and the accumulation of his actions reflected poorly on the institution of the House and, thereby, brought discredit to the House.” “The ethics committee found that there was clear and convincing evidence that, through these actions, he violated federal law and House rules. As such, he should face the consequences of his actions and be censured. Mr. Rangel must be held to the high standards demanded by 40 years of congressional service and the privilege of serving as Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Members of Congress must maintain the trust of the public in order for our work to be effective and respected. Actions of any member that violate that trust undermine the work of all Members of Congress and the institution, and must be addressed forcefully. For that reason, I voted today to censure Rep. Charles Rangel. I hope this sends a signal to all Members of Congress about the need to adhere to the rules and laws that govern our conduct. And I hope that this action helps to restore some public trust and confidence in Congress.” (December 2, 2010) ###
12.02.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for the Middle Class Tax Relief Act, H.R. 4853, to extend tax cuts that will help middle-class families and promote economic growth at a critical juncture in the nation’s recovery from recession. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 234 to 188. “After all the egregious taxpayer-funded bailouts for Wall Street banks and others, we should not raise taxes on hard-working Americans who have been especially hard hit by this recession,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Unemployment is high, small businesses continue to struggle, and the middle class is under tremendous financial pressure. Extending these tax cuts, which otherwise would expire Dec. 31, will allow Third District residents to keep more of their hard-earned money and help them continue to power a recovery that is underway but is not moving nearly fast enough. “At the same time, I do not believe that increasing taxes on anyone is appropriate at this moment given the fragile economy. Raising taxes now could reduce private-sector spending and investment, putting the brakes on growth at a time when we cannot afford to do anything that could slow job creation. As I have said previously, my preference would be to temporarily extend the tax cuts for all income brackets. This would allow the recovery to continue while enabling Congress to revisit the issue in light of concerns about our national debt. Prior to the final vote on H.R. 4853, I voted against the rule that made it impossible to amend the bill to provide for a temporary extension of the tax cuts for all Americans.” H.R. 4853 extends the tax cuts on income under $200,000 for individuals and under $250,000 for married couples. It also extends the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and capital gains and dividend tax cuts, and prevents more than 25 million taxpayers from being hurt by the alternative minimum tax through 2011. The bill would save a typical middle-class family $1,000 annually. “There has been plenty of partisan posturing over the extension of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, and I’ve heard more than a few misleading claims about what today’s vote does and doesn’t do,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But the reality is simple: this bill would prevent a tax increase on the middle class. For that reason, I voted for it. However, it is almost certain that this bill will not pass the Senate, and bipartisan negotiations are currently underway at the behest of the White House. I support these negotiations, and strongly believe that instead of trying to score political points, the two parties should be working together to find common ground. I expect that in the end we will be called to vote on a temporary extension of the tax cuts for all households. I look forward to supporting that legislation.” (December 2, 2010) ###
11.11.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined local residents, schoolchildren, officials, and veterans’ organizations in honoring America’s veterans at the Oak Lawn Veterans Day Ceremony. "Today, we give thanks to each and every one of the millions of men and women who have risked life and limb to defend our great nation," Congressman Lipinski said. "Too often, we take for granted the freedom in which we live. But freedom isn’t free, and we can never forget that it is America’s veterans who have paid the price for our liberty. They answered the call of duty without hesitation, well aware of the dangers that awaited them. As Veterans Day marks the anniversary of the armistice that ended World War I, in which more than 116,000 American service members lost their lives, we must remember not only those still among us who served, but also those who made the ultimate sacrifice. The saying is not less true for being familiar: ‘All gave some, some gave all.’ So too must we say a prayer for the 2.6 million men and women in uniform who are currently serving our country, whether they are in Iraq, Afghanistan, elsewhere overseas, or right here at home. Finally, it is important that we recognize the extraordinary sacrifices of the families of America’s veterans, who live with a terrible uncertainty each day that their loved one is in harm’s way. While we have set aside November 11th to honor our veterans, our obligation to them is ongoing. We must see to it that they are treated every day with the respect, gratitude, and compassion they have earned and deserve." (November 11, 2010) ###
10.29.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined local, state, and federal officials in celebrating the completion of a 13-mile barricade designed to prevent invasive Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes and doing grave harm to native fish populations, ecosystems, and the regional economy. The barricade, consisting of concrete barriers and a specially fabricated wire mesh fence, will prevent Asian carp from circumventing existing electrical barriers by being swept from the Des Plaines River and the I&M Canal into the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal during heavy rains and flooding. Congressman Lipinski helped pass the funding that enabled construction of the barrier, which runs from Willow Springs, in the Third District, to Romeoville. Romeoville is represented by Congresswoman Judy Biggert (IL-13), who has been a leader in the bipartisan effort to stop the Asian carp. "The Great Lakes are one of our most vital environmental and economic resources," Congressman Lipinski said. "Protecting them from invasive species such as the Asian carp is essential to preserving their health and ensuring that they remain productive and enjoyable resources for future generations. I look forward to continuing to work to prevent Asian carp from damaging the Great Lakes while preserving economic growth." The project was designed and constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and funded as part of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. During the July 24 – 25 heavy rains in the Chicago area the completed I&M Canal blockage and the completed portions of the fence along the Des Plaines River functioned as designed and prevented the unimpeded flow of water at connections closest to the electrical barriers. "As an avid cyclist, I am also happy that completion of the fence will permit the reopening of the entire Centennial and I&M Canal Trail," Congressman Lipinski said. "I applaud the work of the Army Corps in building the fence while maintaining this great trail." Asian carp were imported into the southern United States and escaped into the wild in the 1980s and have been swimming northward ever since. Asian carp can grow to 110 pounds, and they compete directly with native fish for food. Between 1991 and 2000, Asian carp abundances surged exponentially in the Mississippi and Illinois rivers, crowding out other species and leading to the abandonment of many commercial fishing areas. Because the commercial value of Asian carp is well below that of the native fish they replace, the establishment of Asian carp could cause great economic damage to the Great Lakes' fisheries, today valued at more than $7 billion annually. "The quick completion of this project is just one step in a multi-pronged effort to stop Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes," Congressman Lipinski said. "But it shows that we are taking effective action on an urgent basis, and doing so in a way that will not slow shipping or commercial activity or damage the local economy at a time when job creation is critical." (October 29, 2010) ###
10.26.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) called for expanded efforts to reduce America's dependence on China for critical rare earth materials, citing reports that China halted exports of rare earths to the United States last week. Rare earths are metals that are essential for a variety of high-tech, clean-energy, and defense products, including cell phones, hard drives, wind turbines, and precision-guided munitions. Disturbingly, the reported suspension of exports came just days after the Obama Administration announced it would investigate whether rare-earth export restrictions China has put in place in recent years violate World Trade Organization rules, a step that could lead to the filing of a complaint with the WTO. It also follows China's decision last month to block rare-earth exports to Japan as a result of a territorial dispute. Prices for rare earths have soared this year due to China's export restrictions, increasing sevenfold in one case and doubling in others, driving up costs for American industry. "China's latest actions have underscored our vulnerability once again," Congressman Lipinski said. "Last month, I cosponsored and helped pass H.R. 6160 to boost domestic production of rare earths so that national security isn't compromised and American companies aren't forced to relocate production to China in order to assure their access to vital raw materials. As I said then, the bill is a good start, but more needs to be done. We should also establish a national stockpile of rare earths and other materials that are critical for America's national security and economic well-being; invest in an aggressive R&D program to develop technologies that reduce or eliminate the need to use rare earths; and increase the recycling of rare earths. I also believe that we should take advantage of next month's G-20 meeting in South Korea to directly address concerns about China's rare earth policy, and to seek common ground with other impacted countries such as Germany and Japan." Passing legislation directing the Defense Department to begin creating a national stockpile of rare earths and other critical materials would help ensure America is able to adapt to future supply-chain shocks as it works to build domestic sources. While H.R. 6160 authorizes funding to develop and test materials that can be substituted for rare earths, investing in more fundamental research into new technologies could drastically reduce or eliminate the need for rare earths in a variety of products. For example, the federal Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy is currently funding research at General Electric that involves using nanotechnology to create magnets that use 80 percent less rare-earth minerals and can be used in hybrid vehicles and wind turbines. In general, nanotechnology holds great promise as a way to curtail the need for rare earths. Japanese companies, which so far have been hit the hardest by China's restrictions, are already working on recycling rare earths from used electronics such as cell phones and computers – including some imported from the United States. America should not overlook its own junked high-tech products as a source of rare earths, and should support expanded recycling of rare earths. At the same time, as envisioned in H.R. 6160, America must move forward with increasing domestic mining and production of rare earths. At one time, the United States was the world's leading producer of rare earths, and it still ranks second worldwide in rare earth deposits. "If there were doubts about the need for further efforts to reduce our dependence on China for rare earths, its latest actions should put them to rest," Congressman Lipinski said. "It is important to understand that China's reported suspension of rare-earth exports does not follow any protectionist measures by the United States, but rather our announced intention to make sure they play by the rules. We cannot let China use its monopoly to destroy American manufacturing jobs." Congressman Lipinski’s recommendations were cited yesterday by Bloomberg News. To read the story, click here. (October 26, 2010) ###
10.15.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced his strong support for legislation that would provide seniors with a one-time, $250 payment to make up for the fact that there will be no Social Security cost-of-living increase next year. The Social Security Administration announced today that there will be no COLA in 2011, making it the second consecutive year without an increase, despite the fact that medical and other costs for seniors continue to rise and the recession has not spared them or their families. "Seniors have seen the value of their homes plummet and watched the recession punish their investments and savings," Congressman Lipinski said. "Meanwhile, their health care costs continue to rise, and many of their children also face difficulties making ends meet. In this environment, seniors undoubtedly deserve a cost-of-living increase, and Congress should intervene to make sure that they receive additional assistance." Congressman Lipinski previously cosponsored H.R. 3810, The Emergency Senior Citizens Relief Act, to give seniors a one-time $250 payment in 2010. The bill is fully paid for and will not add to the deficit. Annual Social Security cost-of-living adjustments are not decided by Congress. Instead, under the law, they are determined by an inflation gauge known as the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers. But as its name suggests, that index was designed to measure the inflation experienced by urban wage earners, not seniors, who spend a higher percentage of their income on items such as health care. That is why Congressman Lipinski helped introduce the CPI for Seniors Act, H.R. 5305, which creates a new inflation index that would more accurately measure the cost increases faced by older Americans. Seniors’ Social Security benefits amount to $14,000 annually on average. Social Security is the primary source of income for almost two-thirds of retirees, and for one-third of recipients provides 90 percent or more of their income. Last year was the first year since 1975 without a cost-of-living increase. "The fact that this Congress is not responsible for the lack of a COLA this year or next year does not mean it can’t take action to fill the gap now and to fix the system," Congressman Lipinski said. "As the costs of basic necessities increase, the benefits seniors have earned and deserve should keep pace, as the law intended. That way, they can continue to afford to pay their bills and remain independent after a lifetime of hard work." (October 15, 2010) ###
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for The Rare Earths and Critical Materials Revitalization Act, H.R. 6160, which directs the Department of Energy to research ways to increase domestic mining and production of rare earth materials. These elements are critical for making everything from weapons guidance systems to hybrid vehicles, but China currently controls production of more than 90 percent of all rare earths, putting America’s economy and national security at risk. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 325 to 98. "We can’t let China turn its rare earths monopoly into a manufacturing monopoly," said Congressman Lipinski, who helped get the bill through the House Science & Technology Committee. "Nor can we overlook the fact that these materials are critical components in a host of important defense and weapons systems. In recent months, China has sharply restricted exports of rare earths in a bid to force companies to locate within its borders. Just last week, it apparently halted rare earth exports to Japan in connection with a diplomatic dispute, suggesting that it is willing to use its monopoly for political and strategic purposes. This bill is a much-needed first step to promote domestic production of rare earths and free America from dependence on China." Rare earths are necessary components of wind turbines, radar systems, computer hard drives, cell phones, televisions and monitors, LED light bulbs, fiber-optic cables, and many other products. According to a recent report by the Government Accountability Office, "Government and industry officials have identified a wide variety of defense systems and components that are dependent on rare earth materials [including precision-guided munitions, lasers, avionics, night-vision equipment, and satellites]." America was the world’s leading supplier of rare earths at one time, but it has produced little since the closure of the nation’s only mine at Mountain Pass, California. Congressman Lipinski cosponsored H.R. 6160, which authorizes the Department of Energy to conduct research into restoring a secure supply of rare earth materials for the United States. This research may involve efforts aimed at developing better technologies for locating, recovering, and refining rare earths; discovering substitutes for rare earths; reducing the need for rare earths; and recycling rare earths from existing products. The bill authorizes $70 million for this program. It also authorizes the DOE to issue loan guarantees to support the commercial development of new technologies that will increase the domestic supply of rare earths. "Permitting China to maintain its stranglehold on the world supply of rare earths would be extremely unwise and short-sighted," Congressman Lipinski said. "We need to adopt a multifaceted approach to this problem, acting quickly to restore America’s ability to mine and process rare earths while simultaneously supporting research that could reduce our dependence on them. This bill is a good start, and I will continue working to ensure America’s access to rare earths and other critical metals is not compromised." (September 29, 2010) ###
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted for the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, H.R. 2378, to make it easier to combat China's currency manipulation, which artificially lowers the price of Chinese exports and has resulted in the loss and outsourcing of countless American jobs over the last decade. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 348 to 79. "It's about time Congress took decisive action to restore fair competition for American manufacturers and to protect American workers from the effects of China's currency policy," Congressman Lipinski said. "At last count, manufacturing employed more than 40,000 people in my district. One major reason that number is substantially lower than it once was is that China refuses to let the free market set the value of the renminbi, which is now undervalued by at least 25 percent. The result is that cheap Chinese goods continue to crowd out those stamped 'Made in U.S.A,' forcing domestic manufacturers and other exporters to lay off workers at a time when we can ill afford more job losses." Although China announced in June that it would allow the renminbi to rise against the dollar, its value has only increased by about 1 percent since then. Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has refused to officially designate China a currency manipulator. Yet if China stopped devaluing its currency, 500,000 American jobs would be created, most in manufacturing, and most paying above-average wages, according to C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Congressman Lipinski has been a cosponsor of H.R. 2378 since early last year, and has supported similar legislation for as long as he has been in Congress. The bill would make it easier for the Commerce Department to rule that China's currency manipulation constitutes an export subsidy and to impose remedial tariffs to protect American manufacturers and jobs. The bill has been carefully crafted to be consistent with World Trade Organization rules. "It is the government's duty to defend the American people," Congressman Lipinski said. "American workers and families have been under assault for years from China's currency policy, which steals American jobs. While we've been playing by the rules, China has enriched itself by ignoring them. Our policy has been all carrot and no stick, with unfortunate but predictable consequences. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act will help change that. I am glad the House finally recognized that negotiations alone were not getting the job done, and that we need to deliver a wake up call to China." (September 29, 2010) ###
09.28.2010	Today, the House of Representatives approved Congressman Dan Lipinski’s resolution calling on all Americans to honor National POW/MIA Recognition Day and expressing the nation’s gratitude to the tens of thousands of service members who endured unimaginable privation as prisoners of war or who served and sacrificed in defense of our freedom but never returned from the battlefield. Congressman Lipinski (IL-03) delivered the following remarks on the House floor prior to the vote: "Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1630, a resolution I introduced expressing support for National POW/MIA Recognition Day, which occurred on September 17th. With every war America wages, our nation owes a greater debt to the courageous and selfless members of the United States Armed Forces, who have fought to secure our freedom and liberty. "During the course of these conflicts, more than 138,000 brave American servicemen and women have been detained or interned as Prisoners of War. Many suffered through torture, forced labor, and unspeakable hardships. Some POWs returned home, others did not. But they all deserve our recognition and gratitude. Also deserving special recognition are those Americans who never returned from war, those who are missing in action. Indeed, there remain today over 84,000 missing-in-action soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines who are unaccounted for on the battlefields of World War II, Vietnam, Korea, the Cold War, and the Gulf War. "One particular group of American heroes I want to mention today is the more than 500 U.S. Marines and sailors from World War II who remain unaccounted for on the small Pacific atoll of Tarawa. I worked with Armed Forces Committee Chairman Ike Skelton to include language in the 2010 Defense Reauthorization urging the Department of Defense to review new research on the location of the remains of U.S. servicemen on Tarawa and to do everything feasible to see that they are recovered. The Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command has just returned from Tarawa, and I, along with the families of these missing service members, look forward to receiving the report on this mission. "It is our obligation to honor the extraordinary service of all American POWs and MIAs. Congress first passed a resolution commemorating National POW/MIA Recognition Day in 1979. Since then, the third Friday of every September has been set aside to give remembrance to our nation’s prisoners of war, unaccounted for military personnel, and their families and friends. So long as members of our Armed Forces remain unaccounted for, we must expend every effort to bring them home to the country in whose defense they fought and sacrificed. It is vital that today’s troops and their families know the United States will pursue all possible measures to fulfill the promise of recovery. "I want to highlight the unwavering commitment of the military commands devoted to recovering remains and providing solace and closure to the families of Americans who remain missing in action from previous conflicts. The Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command, the POW/Missing Personnel Office, the Armed Forces Identification Laboratory, and the Life Sciences Equipment Laboratory – as well as numerous veterans and POW/MIA organizations – are more than deserving of recognition. "And we cannot forget the two U.S. servicemen who are currently listed as held captive in Iraq and Afghanistan. We will continue to pray for a swift and auspicious end to their ordeal. "Until they are home, our thoughts and prayers will forever remain with the families, friends, and loved ones of those Americans who suffered through tremendous hardship for their country." (September 28, 2010) ###
09.24.2010	Yesterday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass the Small Business Jobs Act, H.R. 5297, to create jobs by providing $12 billion in tax relief and increased access to credit for small businesses. The vote in the House of Representatives was 237 to 187 and the President is expected to quickly sign the measure into law. "Small businesses form the backbone of the Third District's economy, create nearly two-thirds of new jobs nationally, and are key to the recovery," Congressman Lipinski said. "But with the economy still stalled and loans hard to come by even for those with good track records, action is needed to remove barriers to growth. That's why I voted to lower the tax burden for small businesses and help them obtain the credit they need to expand their operations, invest in new equipment, and hire new workers." Among numerous provisions reducing small businesses' tax burden, the bill allows businesses to write off half the cost of capital expenditures in 2010, and allows business owners to deduct the cost of their health insurance when calculating self-employment tax in 2010. It also substantially increases Small Business Administration loan limits and eliminates certain SBA loan fees. H.R. 5297, which is fully paid for and will not add to the deficit, authorizes making up to $30 billion available to community banks and local lending institutions to spur them to deploy their own resources and boost lending to small businesses. The bill encourages increased lending and quick repayment by banks by lowering the interest rate they pay on the funds if they increase small-business lending, and increasing it if they fail to lend. It also includes strong oversight provisions to protect taxpayers. In addition, the bill includes a measure cosponsored by Congressman Lipinski that authorizes the Treasury Department to direct up to $1.5 billion to state programs that increase lending to small employers. Funding under this program would be distributed to states based on a formula that takes into account each state's job losses, resulting in significant funding for Illinois' small businesses. "I continue to focus on helping the private sector to create jobs, while fighting against unnecessary spending," said Congressman Lipinski, who voted against the $700 billion Wall Street bailout and the $1 trillion health care bill and did not support the $814 billion stimulus. "In today's economic climate, we need to make life easier for business owners, not harder, and that's exactly what this bill will do. However, I recognize more work remains to be done. Unfortunately, the Senate did not agree to include a provision in this bill to eliminate a measure in the health care reform law requiring businesses to file an IRS 1099 form for every vendor paid more than $600 annually. I voted to get rid of that burdensome requirement previously and will continue to work to eliminate it so that small businesses can focus on turning a profit instead of turning in unnecessary paperwork." (September 24, 2010) ###
09.16.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) introduced H. Res. 1630, which calls on all Americans to honor National POW/MIA Recognition Day and expresses the nation's gratitude to the tens of thousands of service members who endured unimaginable privation as prisoners of war or who served and sacrificed in defense of our freedom but tragically never returned from the battlefield. "Each National POW/MIA Recognition Day, America renews its vow to leave no service member behind," Congressman Lipinski said. "So long as members of our Armed Forces remain unaccounted for, we must expend every effort to bring them home to the country in whose defense they fought and sacrificed. This is a solemn and unbreakable promise, upon which our men and women in uniform depend. In fulfilling it, we pay tribute to their extraordinary courage, patriotism, and fortitude. I hope that this resolution will increase awareness of the importance of honoring our prisoners of war and our missing troops, and that in the future many more people across the country will mark this day by flying the indelible black and white POW/MIA flag as a reminder of the sacrifices made by generations of men and women in order to preserve our freedom." National POW/MIA Recognition Day is the third Friday of September. This year, it falls on September 17. More than 138,000 American service members who fought in World War II, the Korean War, the Cold War, Vietnam, the Gulf War, and Operation Iraqi Freedom were detained or interned as POWs, many suffering and thousands dying from starvation, forced labor, and severe torture. An additional 84,000 members of the U.S. Armed Forces serving in these wars remain listed by the Defense Department as unaccounted for today. H. Res. 1630 calls on all Americans "to recognize National POW/MIA Recognition Day with appropriate remembrances, ceremonies, and activities"; formally recognizes that National POW/MIA Recognition Day is one of six days on which the POW/MIA flag is to be flown over specified federal facilities, national cemeteries, military installations, and post offices; expresses the nation's gratitude to American prisoners of war; honors the 84,000 service members who are missing and their families; thanks national POW/MIA organizations for their untiring efforts; and applauds those engaged in accounting for missing members of the Armed Forces. It also recognizes that there remain today members of the Armed Forces being held captive in Iraq and Afghanistan. "As we express our deepest thanks to all those who did not return home, as well as to those whose homecoming followed months or years of the harshest treatment at the hands of the enemy, it is particularly important that we do not forget the pain their families have suffered," Congressman Lipinski said. "To live without knowing a loved one's fate, or to be deprived of the knowledge of their final resting place, is a terrible and haunting experience. We must make sure that the POW/MIA flag's statement, 'You are not forgotten,' applies to the families of our POWs and MIAs, just as it does to the members of our Armed Forces." Congressman Lipinski is the author of an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2010 that led the U.S. Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command to undertake a six-week search for the remains of hundreds of missing Marines and sailors killed in the bloody World War II Battle of Tarawa in the Pacific. He is also working to ensure that the Department of Defense complies with language included in the defense authorization act that directs the Pentagon to develop a coordinated program to pursue a more comprehensive approach to missing-in-action recovery efforts. Click here to read a copy of the resolution. (September 16, 2010) ###
09.10.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement on the United Steelworkers' petition requesting that the Obama administration take action to address China's extensive use of illegal subsidies to give its clean-energy manufacturers an unfair advantage: "For the sake of our economy and our national security, America needs to develop clean-energy solutions that drastically reduce its dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels in general. But China's blatant refusal to play by the rules of international trade is making it extraordinarily difficult for American companies to compete in producing everything from solar panels to energy-efficient light bulbs. Plants that should be opening here at home are instead locating in China, taking good jobs with them and perpetuating an all-too-familiar trend that does grave harm to our middle class. Meanwhile, China continues to manipulate the value of its currency to undercut U.S.-made goods. The American people are fed up, and so am I. We need to become energy independent once and for all, not sit back and allow another country to obtain a stranglehold on the energy sources of tomorrow. The only way to change China's behavior and stop the offshoring of American jobs is to take decisive action that levels the playing field. I urge the administration to accept the USW's petition and begin formal proceedings to defend American manufacturers and workers and protect our country's future. Clearly, open-ended and unending negotiations aren't getting the job done." (September 9, 2010) ###
09.07.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s proposal for additional investment in America’s transportation infrastructure: "Having consistently fought to increase investment in critical infrastructure projects that create jobs, I am pleased that the President now agrees that new transportation infrastructure legislation is urgently needed to get our economy back on track and improve our roads, railways, and aviation systems. Since the beginning of last year, I have been calling on Congress to pass a multi-year transportation reauthorization bill that will put people back to work immediately as well as provide a solid foundation for future economic growth by moving people and goods more quickly throughout Chicagoland and the country as a whole. The long-term surface transportation funding bill would not be a new program or an emergency stimulus, but rather a regularly-scheduled reauthorization of a paid-for program that ran out a year ago and is limping along with temporary extensions. I pushed hard for more transportation infrastructure investment in the stimulus bill, but when less than 6 percent of the bill was targeted for transportation I could not support it because I knew it would not help put enough people back to work. While I believe the President should have pressed for action a long time ago on the bill we passed out of the Highway and Transit Subcommittee in June last year, the proposal he announced on Labor Day has some laudable goals. I look forward to reviewing a detailed plan and ensuring that it is fully paid for and helps create the jobs we need both now and over the long term." (September 7, 2010) ###
08.31.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement today marking the 30th anniversary of the birth of Poland's Solidarity movement: "Today, we honor the extraordinary courage of all those men and women who together stood up to their communist oppressors and took the first step on the path to the liberation of Poland and ultimately the collapse of the Soviet Union. Though they faced a regime that had not hesitated to resort to violence in the past, the united front that the striking workers at Gdansk presented never fractured, and in the end it was the Communist Party that blinked and gave way to their demands. When the unprecedented accord between the government and the workers was finally signed by Lech Walesa on August 31, 1980, it marked the beginning of a new era for the Polish people and indeed all of Europe. The fire of liberty had been lit, and much as its enemies tried to extinguish it over the next decade, they could not. "Thirty years later, we see the fruits of that heroic, nonviolent movement in the democratic Poland of today. Poland can take great pride in its historic role in the battle against tyranny, and America is proud to count it among its most trusted allies. As a Polish-American, as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, and as someone who represents a part of the most Polish city outside of Warsaw, I hereby extend my best wishes to the Polish people on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the birth of the Solidarity movement." (August 31, 2010) ###
08.19.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) applauded President Obama’s decision to grant Governor Pat Quinn’s request that federal aid be made available to those affected by last month’s flooding. Congressman Lipinski helped lead his colleagues in the Illinois Congressional delegation in urging the President to make a disaster declaration. This declaration makes available much-needed aid for those who suffered damages from the flooding. "Having toured hard-hit areas, spoken to homeowners, and met with local officials, I know many Third District residents suffered serious damage from last month’s flooding and continue to deal with the aftermath," Congressman Lipinski said. "Federal assistance is clearly necessary, and I am glad President Obama heeded our call to make aid available." The President’s declaration makes Individual Assistance and Hazard Mitigation Assistance available. Flooding victims will need to apply for aid to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which will determine eligibility. Individual Assistance can include temporary housing assistance such as rental assistance and repair assistance for eligible applicants. To contact FEMA, call 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY (800) 462-7585 for individuals with speech or hearing disabilities. Click here to apply for disaster relief online. "The flood waters impacted thousands of Illinois residents and numerous communities, causing sewer backups, damaging basements and first floor living areas, washing away bridges and roadways, and leaving significant debris for removal," the delegation’s letter to President Obama stated. "We appreciate FEMA’s assistance to date and respectfully request that you make the necessary declaration to allow residents and communities in the affected areas to receive the federal disaster assistance essential for a successful recovery." "Congressman Lipinski has been outstanding in his support for the effort to make sure everyone who was impacted by the flooding receives the assistance they need," Westchester Mayor Sam Pulia said. "He’s been at the forefront of this and was able to open doors for us in Washington and make sure our voice was heard. I look forward to continuing to work with him, Congressman Danny Davis, and other members of the Illinois Congressional delegation to move the recovery effort forward." "The flooding that occurred in and around my district was some of the worst in recent memory," Congressman Lipinski said. "While those affected have made great strides toward recovery on their own and with the help of local officials, the additional support that is now available will help them to complete the job. My office will continue to help constituents with this next step for receiving aid." Further information on Individual Assistance and Hazard Mitigation Assistance can be found below. Hazard Mitigation Assistance provides grants to States and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration. Click here to learn more about assistance available to individuals and households. Click here to learn more about Hazard Mitigation Assistance. (August 19, 2010) ###
08.17.2010	In response to efforts by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), a Pentagon archeological team is currently searching for the missing remains of hundreds of American Marines and sailors killed in the famous World War II Battle of Tarawa in the Pacific. Among the missing are dozens of Illinois residents, including many from the Chicago area. The search by the U.S. Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC) is the result of Congressman Lipinski's success in attaching an amendment to last year's defense authorization bill calling on the Pentagon "to undertake all feasible efforts to recover, identify, and return" the missing remains of service members killed in the Battle of Tarawa. An initial investigation by JPAC in September located a total of six possible burial sites on the island of Betio, where the battle was fought. JPAC expects its search will last roughly six weeks. "The men who died defending our nation on the shores of Tarawa sixty-seven years ago are true heroes," Congressman Lipinski said. "The extraordinary courage they demonstrated in the face of withering fire and overwhelming odds will never be forgotten. I am extremely pleased that my amendment prompted JPAC to return to Tarawa, and I thank all those who are diligently working to locate the bodies of the hundreds of Marines and sailors who gave their lives there in America's defense. We must do everything possible to see that their families are given a chance to bring them home." The island of Betio in the Tarawa atoll, located halfway between Australia and Hawaii, was the scene of one of the bloodiest battles of World War II. The victory, in the words of Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, "knocked down the front door to the Japanese defenses in the Central Pacific," and the lessons learned in the art of amphibious warfare guided and influenced all subsequent landings in the Pacific. More than 1,100 American lives were lost in three days beginning on Nov. 20, 1943, as the 2nd Marine Division took the tiny but heavily fortified strip of land with the support of the Navy and Army units, destroying an entrenched force of 5,000 Japanese troops in bitter close-quarters combat. The remains of some 564 Americans were never recovered, as many bodies were buried where they fell and record-keeping was difficult and limited in the battle's chaotic aftermath. In the event remains are recovered, the findings will be analyzed by scientific experts in the hopes of making positive identifications. A positive identification can bring closure to families whose loved ones are still missing. Chicago Alderman James Balcer, a decorated Marine veteran of the Vietnam War, brought this issue to Congressman Lipinski's attention and has shown leadership locally by introducing a resolution that passed the Chicago City Council on a unanimous vote. Congressman Lipinski's efforts to ensure the remains of missing service members are recovered go beyond Tarawa. He strongly supports a provision in the defense authorization act that directs the Secretary of Defense to implement a "coordinated, integrated, and fully resourced program" dedicated to locating missing service members killed in action. He recently led 14 of his colleagues in sending a letter to Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations Chairman Norman Dicks urging him to ensure that the Defense Department moves quickly to establish the mandated program. "It is our solemn duty to see that those who made the ultimate sacrifice on Tarawa are afforded proper burials with all the honors that are their due," Congressman Lipinski said. "I look forward to seeing them brought home, and to continuing to work toward recovering the remains of all those who gave their lives in America's defense, wherever they may be found." A list of Illinois service members who lost their lives in the Battle of Tarawa and whose bodies were never recovered is attached. Information regarding lost service members from other states, regions, and municipalities can be provided upon request. (August 17, 2010) ###
08.12.2010	Today, Congressman Lipinski released the following statement regarding the news that America's monthly trade deficit rose to its highest level in nearly two years: "The spike in America's trade deficit to nearly $50 billion in June is a reminder that we must do much, much more to support U.S. manufacturers as they seek to compete against China and other countries that refuse to play by the rules. What we saw was bad news on both fronts, as American exports fell and imports rose. We cannot allow this trend to continue. These latest figures prove yet again that we need to get tough with China over its manipulation of the value of its currency. While China recently announced it would shift to a more flexible exchange rate, the reality is that the renminbi has barely budged since then. Economists agree it's still enormously undervalued, making Chinese goods far cheaper than they would be if the playing field were level. I firmly believe American manufacturers are the best and most innovative in the world, but the fact is they're fighting with one hand tied behind their backs, through no fault of their own. It's high time we imposed duties under U.S. law against illegally subsidized Chinese goods to defend American jobs. "There are some who will maintain that what we're seeing is inevitable, or even 'progress,' and that our economy can continue to thrive by designing and developing the goods that people want, and letting other countries produce them. But look at where that logic has gotten us – we've lost one-third of all manufacturing jobs in a decade, and the service and retail jobs those workers are left with don't pay as well or offer the same benefits as the positions they lost. "As the Wall Street Journal pointed out, part of the reason for the increase in the trade deficit last month was increased demand for foreign-made computer products – including products such as the iPad. I find that incredibly frustrating. American innovation should be creating jobs right here at home, not overseas. Of course, business is business, and companies will do what is most profitable, as they should. But if foreign manufacturers are stealing market share from their U.S competitors, it is not because they are inherently better equipped to compete. Their advantage often stems from coordinated and focused government policymaking that far exceeds anything America is doing. "Fortunately, there are signs Washington is finally starting to wake up to the harsh reality our manufacturers have long faced. My bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, recently passed the House, and that's a good start. It's critical that we bring together the public and the private sector to develop a national plan for revitalizing manufacturing capable of earning broad support. At the same time, we need to immediately crack down on China and any other country that engages in unfair trade practices. Every day we fail to take action is another day American workers suffer." (August 12, 2010) ###
07.28.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) is urging area residents and business owners impacted by last weekend’s heavy rains and flooding to provide their municipality with a written description of the damage they suffered in order to help the State of Illinois as it works toward requesting federal assistance for those affected. Area residents can visit the Congressman’s Web site at www.lipinski.house.gov to download a standard damage questionnaire. These should be filled out and provided as soon as possible to the municipality in which the damaged property is located. Collection of damage reports is critical to the State’s ability to successfully request that the President declare a disaster and make federal aid available. "The Third District includes a number of areas that were hit hard by last weekend’s torrential rains," Congressman Lipinski said. "Many of my constituents suffered extensive damage, which is why I strongly support Governor Quinn’s ongoing effort to conduct the necessary damage assessment so he can make the best possible case to the President for providing federal resources. There’s no doubt in my mind that the flooding we experienced qualifies as a disaster." Before the Governor can request that the President declare a disaster, a thorough damage assessment must be conducted. Should the President make a disaster declaration, the Federal Emergency Management Agency would then determine what specific types of assistance would be available and which individuals and entities would be eligible for aid. "I have tremendous sympathy for all those who were impacted by the downpour," Congressman Lipinski said. "The flooding that occurred in some areas was extraordinary. But so too has been the response among those impacted. In addition, dedicated police officers and firefighters, public works crews, and local and state officials have been working around the clock to keep the public safe and repair the damage done. To ensure the recovery effort continues to move forward, we need residents to help make the case for federal support. While the decision to declare a disaster lies solely with the President, I intend to make it clear that I believe aid is needed." Click here to read Congressman Lipinski's letter to President Obama in support of Governor Quinn's request for a federal disaster declaration. (July 28, 2010) ###
07.28.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Dan Lipinski’s bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, which will help revitalize domestic manufacturing, create jobs, and ensure America is able to provide for its own defense without relying on foreign countries. The vote was 379 to 38. "Today’s vote shows that Washington is finally starting to listen to what I have always promoted and America's middle class has long known: we must take action to support domestic manufacturing and end the outsourcing of American jobs," Congressman Lipinski (IL-03) said. "A strong manufacturing sector is critical to leading America out of recession. Over the last decade, we have lost one-third of all domestic manufacturing jobs. Contrary to what some seem to believe, these job losses were not inevitable, and I do not accept the notion that there is nothing we can do. Clearly, another decade like the last one would dramatically undermine the American middle class and, most importantly, leave us unable to produce many of the goods we require for our national security. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act will bring government and the private sector together to produce a detailed strategy for revitalizing American manufacturing that includes specific goals and recommendations on how to meet them. Now that the Strategy Act has passed the House, I’m looking forward to turning my attention to the Senate, and I am optimistic that we can pass the measure this year. There is a tremendous amount of bipartisan support for the bill in Congress and wide support among Americans who want to see more of the ‘Made in USA’ label." Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) will introduce H.R. 4692 in the Senate. Congressman Lipinski’s bill requires the President to establish a Manufacturing Strategy Board within the Commerce Department that includes federal officials, two state Governors from different parties, and nine private-sector leaders and stakeholders from the manufacturing industry. The Board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the manufacturing sector covering everything from trade issues to financing to the defense industrial base. Based on this analysis, the President’s Board will then develop a National Manufacturing Strategy that includes short- and long-term goals for the manufacturing industry and specific recommendations on how to achieve those goals. The recommendations may include actions that can be taken by the President, Congress, state and local governments, the private sector, universities, and industry associations. They may also include ways to improve government policies and coordination among federal agencies that impact manufacturing. The first Strategy will be due one year after H.R. 4692 becomes law and subsequent Strategies are due every four years, in the second year of each Presidential term. H.R. 4692 has received the support of numerous organizations, including the Alliance for American Manufacturing, National Defense Industrial Association, US Business Industry Council, National Council for Advanced Manufacturing, AFL-CIO, American Iron and Steel Institute, Association of Manufacturing Technology, National Tooling and Machining Association, Precision Metalforming Association, American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition, and Aerospace Industry Association. A poll released last month by the Alliance for American Manufacturing found that Americans overwhelmingly favor passage of a National Manufacturing Strategy and believe more must be done to stem the loss of manufacturing jobs. At a hearing two weeks ago before the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, industry representatives and experts testified that the National Manufacturing Strategy Act will help revitalize America’s hard-hit industrial sector. "After 35 years in the industry, I can tell you America’s manufacturing strategy, insofar as we have one, isn’t getting the job done," said William M. Hickey Jr., president of Chicago-based Lapham-Hickey Steel Corp., which is located in the Third District. "Our economy has become totally imbalanced due to outsourcing and an overemphasis on financial services. Congressman Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act will ensure America has a real debate about how to help Main Street provide jobs to our citizens and get away from taxpayer-funded bailouts for Wall Street." "We commend Congressman Lipinski for his authorship of H.R. 4692," said Scott N. Paul, executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. "There is no question that America needs a manufacturing strategy to revitalize the sector that drives the rest of the economy. The case for a permanent capacity for strategic planning on our manufacturing base, evolving and innovating to make use of our workers’ skills and the latest technology as well as to respond to global trends, could not be stronger." Under the bill, every year, the President’s Board will provide an updated review of the state of manufacturing, assess the implementation of the Strategy’s recommendations, and recommend ways to further the Strategy’s implementation. In addition, the Government Accountability Office will analyze the implementation of the Strategy, its recommendations, and the process for developing the Strategy. Public hearings will be held prior to the Strategy’s development and a draft of the report will be made available for 30 days for public comments that may be incorporated into the final version. "We can disagree over such issues as the impact of America’s trade agreements and our failure to address China’s mercantilist policies, but I believe that there is broad support for developing and implementing a manufacturing strategy," Congressman Lipinski said. "Passage of this bill will finally put American manufacturing on Washington’s agenda and make it impossible to continue to ignore the industry’s importance or gloss over its difficulties." Below is video of Congressman Lipinski's floor statement in support of H.R. 4692. (July 28, 2010) Below is video of Congressman Lipinski's opening statement from the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection hearing on H.R. 4692. (July 14, 2010) (July 28, 2010) ###
07.21.2010	Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted to approve Congressman Dan Lipinski’s bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, moving it a step closer to an expected vote in the full House next week. The legislation requires the President to consult with the private sector to produce a strategy containing a set of specific policy recommendations for strengthening American manufacturing in order to create jobs and ensure America can provide for its own defense. A poll released last month by the Alliance for American Manufacturing shows that Americans overwhelmingly favor passage of a National Manufacturing Strategy and believe more must be done to stem the loss of manufacturing jobs. “Over the last decade, America has lost one-third of all its manufacturing jobs,” Congressman Lipinski (IL-03) said. “Contrary to what some seem to believe, these job losses were not inevitable, and I do not accept the notion that there is nothing we can do. Clearly, another decade like the last one would dramatically undermine the American middle class and, most importantly, leave us unable to produce many of the goods we require for our national security. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act will bring government and the private sector together to produce a detailed strategy for revitalizing American manufacturing that includes specific goals and recommendations on how to meet them.” Congressman Lipinski worked with committee Democrats and Republicans to strengthen the bill after last week's hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection. The first Strategy will be due one year after H.R. 4692 becomes law and subsequent Strategies are due every four years, in the second year of each Presidential term. As revised in Committee, Congressman Lipinski’s bill requires the President to establish a Manufacturing Strategy Board within the Commerce Department that includes federal officials, two state Governors from different parties, and nine private-sector leaders and stakeholders from the manufacturing industry. The Board will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the manufacturing sector covering everything from trade issues to financing to the defense industrial base. Based on this analysis, the President’s Board will then develop a National Manufacturing Strategy that includes short- and long-term goals for the manufacturing industry and specific recommendations on how to achieve those goals. The recommendations may include actions that can be taken by the President, Congress, state and local governments, the private sector, universities, and industry associations. They may also include ways to improve government policies and coordination among federal agencies that impact manufacturing. At last week’s hearing, industry representatives and experts testified that the National Manufacturing Strategy Act will help revitalize America’s hard-hit industrial sector. “After 35 years in the industry, I can tell you America’s manufacturing strategy, insofar as we have one, isn’t getting the job done,” said William M. Hickey Jr., president of Chicago-based Lapham-Hickey Steel Corp., which is located in the Third District. “Our economy has become totally imbalanced due to outsourcing and an overemphasis on financial services. Congressman Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act will ensure America has a real debate about how to help Main Street provide jobs to our citizens and get away from taxpayer-funded bailouts for Wall Street.” “We commend Congressman Lipinski for his authorship of H.R. 4692 and respectfully urge you to pass it into law,” said Scott N. Paul, executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “There is no question that America needs a manufacturing strategy to revitalize the sector that drives the rest of the economy.” Under the bill, every year, the President’s Board will provide an updated review of the state of manufacturing, assess the implementation of the Strategy’s recommendations, and recommend ways to further the Strategy’s implementation. Every four years, the Government Accountability Office will analyze the implementation of the Strategy, its recommendations, and the process for developing the Strategy. The National Academy of Sciences will also be required to produce a study of the manufacturing industry to aid policymakers. Public hearings will be held prior to the Strategy’s development and a draft of the report will be made available for 30 days for public comments that may be incorporated into the final version. “We can disagree over such issues as the impact of America’s trade agreements and our failure to address China’s mercantilist policies, but I believe that there is broad support for developing and implementing a manufacturing strategy,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Passage of this bill would finally put American manufacturing on Washington’s agenda and make it impossible to continue to ignore the industry’s importance or gloss over its difficulties. Numerous other countries already have similar manufacturing strategies, including not only China and India, but also the U.K., Brazil, Canada, and Germany. Public support for such a measure is extraordinarily strong, and I believe that Washington is finally listening.” Click here to read witness testimony and see video of Wednesday's hearing on the National Manufacturing Strategy Act in the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection. Click here to read the latest official text of the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692. (July 21, 2010) ###
07.14.2010	Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection held a hearing to discuss the need to pass Congressman Dan Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, to revitalize American manufacturing and create jobs. The hearing was the first step toward passage of the bill, which has 50 bipartisan cosponsors and has earned the support of numerous business and industry organizations. With a poll by the Alliance for American Manufacturing showing that Americans overwhelmingly favor passage of a National Manufacturing Strategy and believe more must be done to stem the loss of manufacturing jobs, the House could vote on the bill by the end of the month. “Manufacturing is one of the pillars of the American economy and the middle class, providing good-paying jobs to 11.6 million Americans, producing nearly two-thirds of our exports, and ensuring we can provide for our defense without depending on foreign countries,” Congressman Lipinski (IL-03) said. “But an astounding one-third of U.S manufacturing jobs have disappeared in the last decade, and the level of support that Chinaand many other nations provide their manufacturers goes far beyond what we offer. To level the playing field and make sure American manufacturing can thrive in the global economy, we need to take action immediately. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act will bring the government and the private sector together to produce a focused, comprehensive, results-oriented plan for revitalizing manufacturing and creating jobs.” The National Manufacturing Strategy Act requires the President to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the nation’s manufacturing sector that covers workforce requirements, innovation-enhancing research, trade barriers and agreements, access to capital, federal procurement rules, global competitiveness, emerging markets, problems facing small- and medium-sized manufacturers, and many other important issues. This analysis would form the basis for a National Manufacturing Strategy that reflects the input of a task force of federal officials and two state Governors from different parties; recommendations gathered at public hearings; and the advice of a 21-member panel of private-sector manufacturing leaders and stakeholders. The strategy must include specific goals and recommendations related to improving domestic production, investment, international competitiveness, and assuring an adequate defense industrial base, among other matters. At today’s hearing, industry representatives and experts testified that the National Manufacturing Strategy Act will help revitalize America’s hard-hit industrial sector. “After 35 years in the industry, I can tell you America’s manufacturing strategy, insofar as we have one, isn’t getting the job done,” said William M. Hickey Jr., president of Chicago-based Lapham-Hickey Steel Corp., which is located in the Third District. “If we had had a National Manufacturing Strategy in place for the last 10 years, would we have lost or greatly diminished our manufacturing capacity in television, auto parts, bicycles, cell phones, furniture, toys, computers, textiles, and numerous other industries? Our economy has become totally imbalanced due to outsourcing and an overemphasis on financial services. Congressman Lipinski’s National Manufacturing Strategy Act will ensure Americahas a real debate about how to help Main Streetprovide jobs to our citizens and get away from taxpayer-funded bailouts for Wall Street.” “We commend Congressman Lipinski for his authorship of H.R. 4692 and respectfully urge you to pass it into law,” said Scott N. Paul, executive director of the Alliancefor American Manufacturing. “There is no question that Americaneeds a manufacturing strategy to revitalize the sector that drives the rest of the economy. The case for a permanent capacity for strategic planning on our manufacturing base, evolving and innovating to make use of our workers’ skills and the latest technology as well as to respond to global trends, could not be stronger.” “The question of whether a National Manufacturing Strategy is needed is crucial, but also simple to answer: absolutely!” said Mark Gordon, Director of Defense Programs at the National Center For Advanced Technologies and a member of the Executive Committee of the Manufacturing Division at the National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA). “There are many groups from government, industry, and academia which are chartered to further the domestic manufacturing agenda, but they are not strategic, senior, or sufficient enough to deliver the goal of H.R. 4692: a National Strategy for Manufacturing within the United States. NDIA and its members strongly endorse H.R. 4692, requiring the President to conduct a quadrennial National Manufacturing Strategy.” The first Strategy would be due by February 2011, and subsequent Strategies would be submitted every four years by the end of February in the second year of each presidential term. This four-year process is modeled on the Quadrennial Defense Review, and would allow policies to be updated and refined based on changing conditions and lessons learned. To aid policymakers, the Government Accountability Office would review the development and implementation of the Strategy, and the National Academies of Science would conduct periodic studies of manufacturing. “One of the lessons of the financial crisis and the recession has been that you can’t build a healthy economy on borrowing, fabricated wealth, and services that do little to contribute to growth or to meeting essential needs,” Congressman Lipinski said. “This bill is a critical step toward rebuilding our economy on a firm foundation of real innovation and the production of essential goods. Americahas what it takes to remain the world leader in manufacturing. But at a time when other nations are focused on tilting the playing field in their favor – often unfairly – we need a plan to ensure we have the right programs and policies in place and that manufacturing receives the support it deserves.” The following is Congressman Lipinski's opening statement during Wednesday's hearing. The following is Congressman Lipinski's witness questioning during Wednesday's hearing. (July 14, 2010 ###
07.06.2010	On Thursday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) successfully added an amendment to the Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act, H.R. 5629, to help prevent catastrophic oil spills like the one in the Gulf of Mexico and make sure oil companies and the federal government are better prepared to deal with any future spills. H.R. 5629 passed the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, of which Congressman Lipinski is the sole Chicago-area member, on a voice vote. Congressman Lipinski's measure, which was included in the manager's amendment, requires oil companies to base their oil spill response plans on a formal analysis identifying all technical and human risks to an oil-drilling operation. The amendment spells out precisely what such an analysis must contain, including a quantification of risks and the steps that will be taken to reduce those risks. Companies would be required to make their analyses publicly available. "Everything we have learned about the Deepwater Horizon's management and operations leading up to the April 20 explosion suggests BP and the companies working under it disregarded safety and failed to adequately address the enormous risks they were taking," Congressman Lipinski said. "It's also clear that the federal government did not do enough to protect the public, and was ill-prepared for a spill of this nature and magnitude. If we're going to prevent future such catastrophes, we need to force oil companies to undertake a thorough analysis of the risk of a disaster, fully prepare for a worst-case scenario, and share their plans with regulators and the public. In the case of the Deepwater Horizon, it seems a combination of management and technical failures was to blame. Having been trained as an engineer, I think it's simply common sense to assess both types of vulnerabilities, particularly when the consequences of not doing so can impact millions of people, destroy lives, and do long-lasting damage to valuable natural resources." H.R. 5629 removes the outdated liability limitation for off-shore drilling rigs, eliminates loopholes in safety regulations, and improves oversight of safety aboard drilling rigs. The bill grows out of the Committee's examination of the explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon, which tragically resulted in the deaths of 11 people. The resulting spill now stands as the largest in American history. "The Gulf oil spill is a disaster of historic proportions," Congressman Lipinski. "As we work to clean up the oil, stop its flow into the Gulf, and aid those affected, it's critical that we act quickly to ensure nothing like this ever happens again. Doing so involves making it clear to oil companies that they will be financially liable for their mistakes, as well as implementing reforms to dramatically improve government oversight of offshore drilling. This bill makes important strides in both areas, and I look forward to supporting further efforts to deal with this spill and protect American taxpayers." (July 6, 2010) ###
06.28.2010	At a meeting with Census Bureau Director Dr. Robert Groves and other top agency officials, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) secured a pledge from the Bureau to fully explain its purchase of imports from Chinaand other countries, and provide answers to a host of questions regarding its purchasing methods. Congressman Lipinski has led the effort to hold the Census Bureau accountable for spending millions of taxpayer dollars on t-shirts, baseball caps, and other promotional items made overseas. He was joined at the meeting by Representatives Christopher S. Murphy (CT), Betty Sutton (OH), Carol Shea-Porter (NH), and Mark Critz (PA). “More than two months after I first demanded information from the Census and a month after I led a bipartisan group of 20 members in calling for answers, the Bureau has finally come to the table to try to provide some rationale for purchasing goods from Chinaand elsewhere,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Unfortunately, during our meeting their legal team rolled out a set of explanations that was different from prior explanations, including pointing the finger at the General Services Administration. The worst part is that members of Congress – who have the responsibility of conducting oversight – have no way of validating these claims. Instead of exploiting loopholes, making excuses, and passing the buck, the Census Bureau – and the rest of government – should be helping to create and sustain American jobs; we owe that to American workers. I’m going to hold the agency to its promise to finally provide the information and answers we have been asking for. If they continue to drag their feet, I’ll have no choice but to seek a GAO investigation and hearings to get the answers American taxpayers deserve.” “This meeting once again demonstrated why we must pass legislation such as my Buy American Improvement Act and get rid of the overwhelming number of loopholes that exist so that longstanding Buy American laws truly protect American workers. It also brought home the fact that we need to change the culture in our government so that federal employees start asking how they can follow Buy American laws instead of how they can ignore them. Over the past three years, 2.1 million manufacturing jobs have disappeared, yet somehow federal agencies continue to overlook American suppliers. This is offensive to the millions of Americans who are out of work. There are manufacturers right here in Chicago that could have supplied these hats and t-shirts at competitive prices, but they were never even contacted.” As part of its “March to the Mailbox” campaign, the Census Bureau spent millions of taxpayer dollars on imported t-shirts, shirts, and baseball caps manufactured in China, Bangladesh, and elsewhere. It also spent an unknown sum on foreign-made toys, key chains, and other promotional items. In the case of the apparel, while the Census Bureau’s logo was stitched or printed onto the garments in the United States, the garments themselves were manufactured abroad. It remains unclear exactly what portion of the $42 million the Census Bureau spent on promotional items went to foreign manufacturers. On April 14, Congressman Lipinski sent a letter to the Census Bureau demanding an explanation of its purchases. On May 20, the Congressman led 19 other members of the House in sending a follow-up letter demanding answers to specific questions about the purchase of foreign goods by the Census Bureau and its general procurement practices. While the Bureau continues to insist its purchases complied with the Buy American Act, there is ample reason to doubt that is the case. For instance, the agency’s purchases of Chinese-made apparel likely would only be permissible if the domestic manufacturers’ stitching or printing were responsible for more than 50 percent of the final value of the goods. But that work probably accounts for a much smaller percentage of the value. “I’m going to keep pressing federal departments and agencies to follow the ‘Buy American’ law,” Congressman Lipinski said. “While we have no reason to suspect that the Census Bureau purposely did not comply with Buy American laws, we simply cannot allow the federal government to get away with needlessly sending taxpayer dollars to China when that money could be creating jobs here at home.” Congressman Lipinski recently introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 4351, to eliminate loopholes in existing Buy American laws. Among other things, the bill would ban the practice of segmenting purchases so as to avoid reaching the minimum dollar amounts at which the Buy American Act applies. This appears to have happened with many of the Census Bureau’s purchases. The bill has been endorsed by the Populist Caucus and introduced in the Senate by Russ Feingold of Wisconsin. (June 28, 2010) ###
06.17.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped pass the Small Business Lending Fund Act, H.R. 5297, to increase access to credit for small businesses to aid in job creation. The bill includes a measure cosponsored by Congressman Lipinski that authorizes the Treasury Department to direct up to $2 billion to state programs that increase lending to small employers. The vote in the House of Representatives was 241 to 182. “Almost two years after the financial crisis, the fallout from Wall Street’s destructive behavior continues to impact small businesses,” said Congressman Lipinski, who voted against the Wall Street bailout all three times it came to the House floor. “America’s 6 million small employers form the backbone of the American economy and the backbone of our communities, especially in the Third District. Small businesses create two-thirds of new American jobs, jobs that are desperately needed in today’s economy. But because banks remain reluctant to lend, many businesses in the Third District and across the nation are unable to expand or add employees. This bill will help change that by making it easier for high-quality small companies to obtain the financing they need to grow.” The measure cosponsored by Congressman Lipinski and included in H.R. 5297 is the State Small Business Credit Initiative, H.R. 5302. Funding under this new program would be distributed to states based on a formula that takes into account each state’s job losses, resulting in substantial funding for Illinois’ small businesses. In addition to providing funding for state lending programs, H.R. 5297 authorizes making up to $30 billion available to community banks and local lending institutions to spur increased lending to small businesses. This will persuade banks to deploy their own resources and could result in up to $300 billion in loans to small firms. The bill encourages increased lending by local institutions with close ties to their communities by lowering the interest rate they pay on the funds if they increase small-business lending, and increasing the interest rate if they fail to lend. It also includes strong oversight provisions, requires that the money be repaid, and contains incentives that strongly encourage speedy repayment. The bill will also create jobs by increasing investment in high-tech start-up companies with strong growth potential. Working through Small Business Investment Corporations (SBICs) and similar institutions, the legislation leverages private capital to expand investment in small companies. The U.S. Small Business Administration has long operated an SBIC program to increase investment in start-up companies. “Nothing is more important right now than job creation,” Congressman Lipinski said. “That means we must ensure small businesses have access to credit and the ability to take advantage of new opportunities and hire new workers. I’m pleased that this bill takes an important and much-needed step in that direction.” (June 17, 2010) ###
06.10.2010	Today, lifelong Chicago Blackhawks fan Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) congratulated the team on ending its 49-year Stanley Cup drought in spectacular fashion with a dramatic victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Wednesday night in Philadelphia. With Rep. Lipinski having won his wager with Rep. Robert Brady of Philadelphiaon the outcome of the series, Rep. Brady delivered cheese steaks from Geno’s Steaks in South Philly to Rep. Lipinski’s office on Thursday at noon and posed for photos wearing a Blackhawks jersey. “Since I was a kid wearing my Blackhawks jersey and listening to Lloyd Pettit on the radio, the Stanley Cup has been the dream; now that dream has been fulfilled,” Rep. Lipinski said. “It was an amazing game, an incredible series, and an unbelievable season. Last Sunday the excitement and noise at the United Centerwas incredible, and the way the Hawks played that night convinced me they would finish it off in Game 6. To take the Cup on the road is especially tough, but this team never stopped believing and never stopped fighting. Going into the series, it was clear they were the superior squad. But talent isn’t everything, and the Hawks showed tremendous heart and resilience when it counted most. They shrugged off the past, silenced the doubters, and secured a place for themselves in the history books. It is great to see the city celebrate our Blackhawks!” (June 10, 2010) ###
06.03.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski will hold a Senior Fair on Monday, June 7, to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses. "I'm pleased to be holding another Senior Fair to help seniors cut through bureaucratic red tape and get the services they need," Congressman Lipinski said. "My office has helped countless retirees get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans' benefits, the Postal Service, and other federal issues. I continue to listen extremely closely to the seniors of the Third District and to fight for their interests in Washington. With millions of people still out of work and the economy having taken a steep toll on retirees' savings, I know this is a tremendously difficult time for many families." Senior Fair Monday, June 7, 2010 10 a.m. - Noon Mount Greenwood Park 3724 West 111th Street Chicago, Illinois Among those scheduled to attend are representatives from the Social Security Administration, Walgreens, Advocate Christ Medical Center, Franciscan Village, Waddell & Reed, Comfort Keepers, CEDA, the Cook County Sheriff's Office, La Grange Pointe, Home and Hearth Caregivers, PLOWS Council on Aging, and the Salvation Army. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov. (June 3, 2010) ###
06.02.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) applauded Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood’s proposal to require airlines to reimburse checked-baggage fees in cases where they lose luggage or deliver it late. Congressman Lipinski is the author of a similar measure that is part of the House version of the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. “Now that sky-high baggage fees are ubiquitous, passengers have a right to expect better service from the airlines,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But the billions of dollars in new revenues that airlines are collecting from baggage fees don’t seem to have led to any noticeable improvements in baggage handling and delivery. The rule that Secretary LaHood has proposed would ensure that when airlines force passengers to pay to check a bag, they have an incentive to get it to its destination in a timely fashion. Having included a measure in the House version of the FAA reauthorization that would require the Government Accountability Office to study baggage delays and make recommendations for the mandatory compensation of passengers, I believe this regulation represents a common-sense way to hold the airlines accountable and ensure the public is treated fairly.” (June 2, 2010) ###
05.28.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) succeeded in adding an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, H.R. 5136, to ensure that American companies have a fighting chance to receive Department of Defense contracts. Congressman Lipinski's amendment requires the DOD to solicit bids from domestic suppliers when procuring articles, materials, or supplies for use outside the United States. In 2008, the DOD spent over $8 billion on these purchases from foreign entities. "Today's vote was a victory for American workers, American manufacturers, and our national security," Congressman Lipinski said. "America should not have to rely on foreign companies to supply our men and women in uniform. Nor should we ever send taxpayer dollars overseas when they could be helping to create desperately needed jobs here at home. By requiring the Department of Defense to solicit bids from U.S. companies when purchasing items for use outside our borders, my amendment helps level the playing field for American workers. As we fight to put Americans back to work, it's critical that taxpayer dollars ‘Buy American.'" When the Buy American Act was passed in 1933, it exempted goods used abroad because shipping was slower and much more costly. But that has changed, and it's time we let American manufacturers compete for these contracts. Congressman Lipinski also worked successfully with Reps. Donna F. Edwards (MD) and Christopher Murphy (CT) to add amendments to the Defense Authorization requiring the DOD to study the impact of its procurement methods on domestic jobs, report on the domestic capacity to produce items procured from overseas, and explain annual increases and decreases in the number of waivers it grants under the Buy American Act. Congressman Lipinski has been a leader in the effort to force the federal government to abide by both the letter and the spirit of the Buy American Act. He recently introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 4351, to eliminate loopholes in existing Buy American laws. He also recently led a bipartisan group of 20 House members in demanding the Census Bureau explain why it spent millions of taxpayer dollars on imported t-shirts, hats, and other promotional items when American manufacturing has lost 2.1 million jobs in under three years. Congressman Lipinski continues to press the Census Bureau for answers. "I plan to seize every opportunity I can to make the federal government comply with the Buy American Act and purchase from domestic sources whenever possible," Congressman Lipinski said. "It's bad enough that our government has stood by for decades and allowed the outsourcing of American manufacturing jobs to countries such as China. But for it to actively increase the outflow of good-paying jobs by using taxpayer dollars to make purchases from foreign companies is intolerable, now more than ever." (May 28, 2010) ###
05.28.2010	Today, Research and Science Education Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) helped lead passage of bipartisan legislation in the House to create jobs and maintain America's global economic leadership by investing in science education and innovative research in areas such as manufacturing. The America COMPETES Act, H.R. 5116, was approved by the House of Representatives by a vote of 262 to 150. "At a time when 15 million Americans are unemployed, this bill is focused on creating jobs and securing our nation's position at the forefront of the global economy," said Chairman Lipinski, a former college professor who holds two engineering degrees. "If we are going to overcome the increasingly stiff challenges we face from China and other countries, we must invest in education and innovation. History shows that federal support for basic research helps lead to new companies, jobs, and even entire industries. The reauthorization of the COMPETES Act is a critical investment in the unparalleled scientific and technological ingenuity of the American people." "Northwestern University strongly supports the reauthorization of the COMPETES Act, and thanks Congressman Lipinski for his leadership on this important legislation," Northwestern President Morton O. Schapiro said. "We especially commend Congressman Lipinski's concern with human investment. By cultivating the next generation of scientists and engineers, this bill helps to ensure that our future workforce will have the education and skills to compete in the global marketplace." The COMPETES Act includes Congressman Lipinski's National Science Foundation reauthorization, which authorizes high-tech manufacturing research and creates new grant and fellowship programs to improve science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education. In addition, the bill contains Congressman Lipinski's bipartisan GENIUS Act, H.R. 5094, which creates a program to offer up to $12 million in cash prizes for solving crucial science problems. Congressman Lipinski also added a Buy American amendment to the bill to support high-skill, high-wage jobs at innovative small U.S. manufacturers. This measure aims to help local manufacturers such as Meyer Tool & Manufacturing Inc. in Oak Lawn, which helps supply components to Argonne National Laboratory and Fermilab. Last month, The Science Coalition released a report identifying 100 companies that are the result of federal investments in basic research, including five innovative small start-ups in Illinois, one of the top destinations for federal research dollars in the country. These companies collectively employ over 100,000 people. Yet they are just the tip of the iceberg, as there are many other companies that would not have been possible without federally funded basic research. Local companies that have previously received funding under COMPETES include Nalco Co. in Bedford Park, which together with Argonne National Laboratory recently received $2.25 million to develop a process to eliminate CO2 emissions from coal-fired power plants. "The reauthorization of the America COMPETES Act takes a critical piece of legislation and makes it even better," Chairman Lipinski said. "It will help us maintain our competitive edge by putting us on a path to double our investment in basic research programs; supporting transformative research in key areas such as clean energy; improving STEM education; investing in research to enhance the manufacturing sector's productivity and innovation; and improving programs to ensure researchers' discoveries translate into new products, jobs, and companies. I look forward to continuing to help guide this bill to final passage this year." (May 28, 2010) ###
05.28.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding his vote against repeal of the 1993 law commonly referred to as "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." "In making my decision, I heeded the views stated this week by Commandant of the Marine Corps General James T. Conway, Army Chief of Staff General George W. Casey Jr., Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead, and Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton A. Schwartz. As the chiefs of the branches of our military, each spoke of his strong support for allowing the comprehensive review of the implications of repealing the ‘Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy to be completed before any legislative action is taken. The review process established by Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates takes a systematic approach to evaluating ‘any impacts to military readiness, military effectiveness and unit cohesion, recruiting/retention, and family readiness that may result from repeal of the law.' Before voting on this issue, I believe Congress ought to have had the benefit of considering the report resulting from that review, which is due on Dec. 1. It is notable that General Conway, General Casey, Admiral Roughead, and General Schwartz were united in indicating that to act before the review is completed would send an unwelcome signal to our men and women in uniform regarding the importance of their input. Indeed, an ‘essential' and ‘critical aspect' of the review, according to Secretary Gates, is the gathering of the views of ‘a range of age, rank, and warfare communities.' In voting yesterday on this important question, I believe Congress acted hastily, ignored the clear and considered advice of our top military commanders, and showed a regrettable disregard for the opinions of the men and women who risk their lives for our nation on a daily basis. The American people have made it clear: Congress should listen before it acts." (May 28, 2010) ###
05.26.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced the introduction of the CPI for Seniors Act, H.R. 5305, which creates a new inflation index that would accurately measure the cost increases faced by older Americans. This year, Social Security recipients did not receive a cost-of-living increase due to the fact that the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) indicated costs did not rise last year. But as its name suggests, that index was designed to measure the inflation experienced by urban wage earners, not seniors, who spend a higher percentage of their income on items such as health care, the cost of which continues to rise rapidly. The CPI for Seniors Act directs the Bureau of Labor Statistics to develop a new price index that accounts for seniors' actual costs. The result will be a more accurate understanding of the economic reality experienced by retirees. "Despite the fact that the Bureau of Labor Statistics said there was no inflation last year, numerous Third District seniors I've spoken with have made it clear their cost of living kept rising," Congressman Lipinski said. "The problem may be that the index used to measure inflation was created to reflect the costs faced by people who are younger and are working, not retirees. Seniors spend more money on some items and less on others. For example, seniors generally require more medical care, and given that health care and prescription drug costs continue to soar, many older Americans are finding themselves in a bind." The CPI-W assumes that medical spending accounts for just over 5 percent of consumers' expenditures. Yet one recent study found that among households with Medicare recipients, health care accounts for more than 14 percent of total spending. Older Americans are also more likely to be homeowners, which exposes them to different costs and budgetary pressures. "The CPI for Seniors Act is part of my commitment to defending the interests of Third District seniors and honoring the tremendous contributions they have made to our nation," Congressman Lipinski said. "If we're going to do right by our seniors, we need to accurately measure their cost of living so that we have a better understanding of the economic reality they face. This will allow us to appropriately care for the needs of seniors." (May 26, 2010) ###
05.20.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) led a bipartisan group of 20 members of the House of Representatives in sending a letter to Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Census Director Dr. Robert Groves demanding a detailed explanation of why the Census Bureau spent millions of taxpayer dollars on imported t-shirts, hats, and other promotional items when American manufacturing has lost 2.1 million jobs in under three years. "For taxpayer dollars to wind up in the pockets of workers in China and Bangladesh when one in 10 Americans is out of work and Buy American laws have been on the books for decades is inexcusable," Congressman Lipinski said. "Adhering to both the letter and the spirit of the Buy American Act would undoubtedly create and sustain countless good-paying jobs in our struggling manufacturing sector. I firmly believe that in this instance - and in many, many others like it - an American manufacturer could have supplied the needed goods. Unfortunately, there's every reason to believe this is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the federal government needlessly sending taxpayer dollars overseas." The Census Bureau spent more than $4.3 million on imported t-shirts, shirts, and baseball caps bearing its logo as part of its $6.4 million "March to the Mailbox" campaign. While the printing was done in the United States, the apparel was manufactured in China, Bangladesh, and elsewhere. The purchases came to light last month when the Bureau sent a dozen boxes of the items to Chicago Alderman Ed Burke, who quickly alerted the public. Since then, it has been reported that boxes of Census promotional items received in Boston included miniature footballs, toy robots, t-shirts, and tape measures made in China and Honduras. While the Bureau has stated it spent a total of $42 million on 67 million promotional items, it remains unclear how much it spent on imported goods. "We hope you will agree that it is our mutual obligation to make certain that taxpayer dollars are spent in a transparent, accountable, and legal manner," Congressman Lipinski states in the letter, which requests a meeting with Secretary Locke and Director Groves. "Domestic procurement requirements were legislated by Congress because they help create American jobs and support U.S. businesses, something that is especially important during the current recession. Receiving hats and t-shirts made in China or Bangladesh is an affront to the millions of Americans that are looking for work, and could lead to unfavorable views of the Census Bureau, perhaps even leading to lower response rates." Congressman Lipinski has been seeking answers from the Census Bureau for more than a month, but the Bureau's shifting and incomplete responses have raised as many questions as they have answered. Publicly available information and statements suggest there may be systemic problems with how the Census Bureau and the Commerce Department as a whole track procurements and comply with the law. For instance, in its annual procurement reports to Congress the Commerce Department appears to be simply exempting many imported goods from Buy American Act coverage instead of seeking waivers for individual purchases. By avoiding the waiver process, the Department can avoid telling Congress what products it purchased from foreign sources and how much it spent on particular imported products. This means there is no way for American companies to challenge improperly granted waivers or alert the Department of their ability to manufacture a given product. Congressman Lipinski has been a leader in the effort to ensure the federal government purchases domestically whenever possible. He recently introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 4351, to eliminate loopholes in existing Buy American laws. The bill has been endorsed by the Populist Caucus and introduced in the Senate by Russ Feingold of Wisconsin. Joining Congressman Lipinski in signing the letter were Reps. Mark Schauer, Phil Hare, Marcy Kaptur, Michael Michaud, Carol Shea-Porter, Alcee Hastings, Dale E. Kildee, Larry Kissell, Linda T. Sanchez, Betty Sutton, Walter B. Jones, Bruce Braley, Stephen F. Lynch, Peter J. Visclosky, Christopher S. Murphy, Jerry Costello, Nick J. Rahall II, Heath Shuler, and Charlie Wilson. Click here to view a copy of the letter. (May 20, 2010) ###
05.14.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) reacted to a new analysis by the Congressional Budget Office that doubles its previous estimate of discretionary spending in the health care reform bill passed in March to more than $115 billion over ten years, pushing the bill's total price tag past $1 trillion. "One reason I resisted the pressure and voted against the health care bill in March is that it is not fiscally sustainable over the long term and will only add to our national debt," Congressman Lipinski said. "But this latest report by the Congressional Budget Office shows that the situation is even worse than it appeared to be just two months ago. The CBO now estimates that discretionary spending under the bill will total at least $115 billion and possibly as much as $125 billion over 10 years. That is double its previous estimate. The more we know about this new health care law, the clearer it becomes that it will only add to America's already overwhelming debt." Even before the CBO issued its report, claims that the health care bill would reduce the deficit could not withstand scrutiny. These claims were based on treating as deficit reduction over $70 billion in premiums that will be paid into the newly created CLASS Act program, despite the fact that the program would be fiscally unsustainable even if its premiums were not funneled out of the trust fund. Similarly, $29 billion in increased Social Security receipts was counted toward deficit reduction although it ought to remain in the Social Security Trust Fund. In addition, the deficit-reduction claim assumes that in later years, the growth in federal subsidies will suddenly be allowed to decline, and that the tax on middle-class insurance plans - which Congressman Lipinski and many others already oppose - will be expanded. Finally, the bill does not address this year's scheduled 21 percent cut in Medicare reimbursements to doctors, which will cost more than $300 billion to fix over the next 10 years. These items alone wipe out the bill's purported savings, and the CBO's new estimates plunge it further into the red. What's more, even the new analysis may not capture all the spending that will occur under the health care bill. The CBO notes that the bill's discretionary costs fall into three categories. The $115 billion figure includes only spending in the first two. It does not include spending in the third category, covering grants and other programs "for which no specific funding levels are identified in the legislation," but for which the bill authorizes the appropriation of "such sums as may be necessary." Hence, the CBO may still be underestimating the real cost. "When it comes to the new health care law, the devil is in the details," Congressman Lipinski said. "And the details clearly show that it is unaffordable for our nation." (May 14, 2010) ###
04.29.2010	Today, Research and Science Education Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski helped lead passage of bipartisan legislation through the House Science and Technology Committee to maintain America’s leading position in the global economy and create jobs by investing in science education and innovative research in areas such as manufacturing. The America COMPETES Act, H.R. 5116, includes Chairman Lipinski’s National Science Foundation reauthorization bill. It also contains measures he authored to establish prizes for breakthrough scientific research and to require the Department of Energy to develop a plan to increase the number of American products bought by our National Laboratories, including Fermilab and Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois. “This bill is about creating American jobs and laying the groundwork for long-term economic prosperity,” said Chairman Lipinski, a former college teacher and researcher who holds two engineering degrees. “If Americais going to continue to be the world’s leading source of innovation and job creation, we cannot rest, not when Chinaand other countries are working feverishly to overtake us. This bill will help us maintain our competitive edge by doubling our investment in basic research programs; supporting transformative research in key areas such as clean energy; improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education; investing in research to enhance the manufacturing sector’s productivity and innovation; and improving programs to ensure researchers’ discoveries translate into new products, jobs, and companies.” “Northwestern University strongly supports the reauthorization of the COMPETES Act, and thanks Congressman Lipinski for his leadership on this important legislation,” Northwestern President Morton O. Schapiro said. “We especially commend Congressman Lipinski’s concern with human investment. By cultivating the next generation of scientists and engineers, this bill helps to ensure that our future workforce will have the education and skills to compete in the global marketplace.” Chairman Lipinski’s NSF reauthorization helps American manufacturing by authorizing grants to colleges and universities for high-tech manufacturing research. And it strengthens the nation’s high-tech workforce through new grant and fellowship programs designed to improve STEM education and participation at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Chairman Lipinski’s Buy American amendment would support high-skill, high-wage jobs at innovative small U.S.manufacturers by requiring the Department of Energy to develop a plan for increasing hardware purchases from domestic sources. This will help local manufacturers such as Meyer Tool & Manufacturing Inc. in Oak Lawn, which supplies a number of National Laboratories. In addition, the COMPETES Act includes Chairman Lipinski’s bipartisan GENIUS Act, H.R. 5094, which creates an NSF program to offer up to $12 million in cash prizes for solving crucial basic research problems in science and engineering. A cost-effective way to inspire researchers to tackle difficult problems, the GENIUS Act draws on the long history of prize programs, which includes such recent successes as the $10 million Ansari X Prize, which resulted in the development of a reusable manned spacecraft. For more on the GENIUS Act, see the attached press release. “Congressman Lipinski’s leadership in advancing the NSF reauthorization process as part of the larger COMPETES Act reauthorization acknowledges the importance of sustaining investments in basic research as part of an economic recovery,” University of Chicago President Robert J. Zimmersaid. “We commend Congressman Lipinski for his active engagement of the research community by holding a number of listening sessions throughout the legislative process.” “By supporting the scientific leaders of tomorrow, the National Science Foundation builds a sturdy foundation for knowledge based industries, which in turn lay the groundwork for improved scientific literacy, high-quality future employment, and sustainable economic growth,” said Lance Grande, Senior Vice President of Collections and Research at the Field Museumin Chicago. “We want to thank Congressman Lipinski for his work on the NSF reauthorization and the broader COMPETES Act, and for listening to our views and needs.” “History shows that substantial and targeted investments in education and research pay tremendous dividends in the form of increased economic growth and job creation,” Chairman Lipinski said. “The COMPETES Act takes a proactive and bipartisan approach to securing America’s position in the 21st century global economy. It acknowledges the challenges Americafaces from abroad, but shows that we are prepared to work together as a nation to overcome them and build on our unparalleled record of innovation. I look forward to continuing to help guide this bill to passage this year.” (April 29, 2010) ###
04.28.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski will hold a Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, May 1, to hear from his constituents and take their questions about federal issues. He will also hold a Senior Fair on Monday, May 3, to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses. "I continue to listen extremely closely to the residents of the Third District and to fight for their interests in Washington," Congressman Lipinski said. "With millions of people still out of work, I know this is a tremendously difficult time for many families. I'm looking forward to the opportunity to hear from my constituents at my town hall meeting and discuss the work I'm doing to revitalize our economy and create jobs. I'm also pleased to be holding another Senior Fair to help seniors cut through bureaucratic red tape and get the services they need. My office has helped countless seniors get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans' benefits, the Postal Service, and many other federal issues. This Senior Fair is an extension of my help for all the seniors in my district." Town Hall Meeting Saturday, May 1, 2010, 10:00 a.m. H.H. Conrady Junior High School 7950 West 97th Street Hickory Hills, Illinois 60457 Starting one hour before the Town Hall Meeting, staff will assist constituents with Social Security and other federal issues. Senior Fair Monday, May 3, 2010, 10:00 a.m. - Noon Vittum Park 5010 West 50th Street Chicago, Illinois 60638 Among those scheduled to attend are representatives from the Social Security Administration, Archer Pharmacy, Walgreens, Advocate Christ Medical Center, the Illinois State Treasurer's Office, Franciscan Village, Waddell & Reed, Home Helpers, Comfort Keepers, CEDA, Age Options, the Cook County Sheriff's Office, La Grange Pointe and Elmhurst Pointe, and Home and Hearth Caregivers. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481 or visit www.lipinski.house.gov. (April 28, 2010) ###
04.27.2010	Riverside Brookfield Landmark April 27, 2010 By U.S. Congressman Dan Lipinski My decision to vote against the Senate health care bill was the result of months of careful study and analysis, and of listening closely to my constituents. As I have said many times, I strongly believe reform is needed to lower soaring health care costs and make insurance coverage more affordable and accessible. But while the Senate bill does include some positive reforms, it was seriously flawed. It does not do enough to lower the skyrocketing cost of health care, cuts hundreds of billions of dollars from Medicare, is fiscally unsustainable, breaks with the status quo by providing federal funding for abortion and rewards drug companies and other special interests. Just last week, the chief actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reported that the bill's cuts to Medicare could result in a significant number of health care providers becoming unprofitable, thereby jeopardizing seniors' access to care. In the final analysis, I could not support such a deeply flawed bill. Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to improve our health care system. Last November, after helping to make numerous improvements to the House health care bill, I voted to move the measure forward, believing that it was possible to fix its flaws before a final vote. But I made my position very clear, stating: "If this bill does not improve when it comes back from the Senate, I will vote against it." Unfortunately, the Senate bill was worse than the House legislation. Though health care costs have nearly doubled in the last decade, the Senate bill does little to control costs. As the Congressional Budget Office has stated, the bill would do little to affect premium costs for those whose insurance is through a large employer. Since 70 percent of Americans not on Medicare are in this group, the bill fails to sufficiently reduce costs for the majority of working families in the Third District. And while it purports to be fully funded, a closer look shows that the bill achieves this appearance by dubious means, such as diverting revenues from Social Security and other programs that should be self-sustaining, including the newly created CLASS Act. The CBO counts as deficit reduction over $70 billion in premiums that will be paid into this program. Even if these premiums were properly kept in a trust fund, the CLASS Act itself will add significantly to the deficit after 20 years. Finally, of great concern to me and many 3rd District residents, the Senate bill changes longstanding policy and provides federal funding for abortion. Efforts to address this issue through an executive order were insufficient, as the order only addresses a portion of the abortion funding, likely would not survive a court challenge, and could be repealed at any time. While deeply disappointed that Congress did not develop a better bill, I will continue fighting against special interests and for improvements to our health care system that benefit all of the residents of the 3rd District. http://rblandmark.com/main.asp?Search=1&ArticleID=6094&SectionID=3&SubSectionID=17&S=1 ###
04.22.2010	Today, Congressmen Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) and Frank Wolf (R-Va.) introduced the bipartisan Generating Extraordinary New Innovations in the United States (GENIUS) Act, H.R. 5094, which would create a National Science Foundation program to offer cash prizes for solving crucial basic research problems in science and engineering. The legislation is expected to be incorporated into the reauthorization of the America COMPETES Act. "If America is going to maintain its leading position in the ultra-competitive global economy, we need to dream big and inspire our brightest scientific minds," Congressman Lipinski said. "Prizes for solving specific scientific and technological problems have a long history and a strong track record of sparking notable achievements and discoveries. Recently, the $10 million Ansari X Prize induced private organizations to spend more than $100 million developing reusable manned spacecraft, and the Clay Mathematics Institute prizes have brought wide attention to some of math's hardest problems, including the 100-year-old Poincaré Conjecture, which was finally solved three years after the $1 million prize was announced. A prize program at the National Science Foundation will complement the NSF's traditional funding approach, helping it to spark research breakthroughs capable of opening up new industries and creating jobs." "The return on this investment will be well worth it," Congressman Wolf said. "Innovation creates jobs and bolsters our manufacturing base." While innovation inducement prizes have been utilized by NASA, the Department of Energy, the Department of Defense, and the private sector, they have not been employed by the NSF. Congressman Lipinski's bill would authorize a total of $12 million for up to five prizes of at least $1 million each, in contests lasting up to seven years. The National Academies' 2005 report Rising Above the Gathering Storm, which laid the foundation for the America COMPETES Act, recommended that federal research agencies set aside a portion of their budgets for high-risk, high-reward research. A later study by the Academies concluded that innovation inducement prizes would be "a sound investment in strengthening the infrastructure for U.S. innovation." There is a growing consensus in the research community that the peer-review system has become too conservative in its funding decisions and even the brightest and most creative scientists and engineers are not bothering to submit more ambitious proposals. Establishing innovation prizes at the NSF is a novel way to address this problem. A traditional grant proposal necessarily focuses on meeting incremental challenges during the grant period, which is typically only four years. But a prize contest can spur solutions to seemingly intractable problems by providing a new kind of incentive for researchers both inside and outside of academia. In addition, prizes are exceptionally cost-effective, since no payments are made unless the specified goal is met, and they can prompt institutions and groups of researchers to spend more than the amount of the prize in labor and other costs. By highlighting critical problems and inspiring breakthroughs, innovation prizes can also help to stir a wider excitement and interest in the frontiers of science. "The greatest achievements are the result of tackling the biggest problems," Congressman Lipinski said. "The GENIUS Act recognizes this, which is why it is such a promising approach to encouraging American innovation." (April 22, 2010) ###
04.21.2010	Resolution Expressing Sympathy to Poland Passes the House of Representatives Today, following its introduction by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Congresswoman Kathy Dahlkemper (PA-3), and Congressman Paul Kanjorski (PA-11), H. Res. 1246 passed the House of Representatives. The resolution expresses sympathy to the people of Poland in the aftermath of the tragic plane crash on April 10 that killed the country’s President, First Lady, and 94 others, including Poland’s deputy foreign minister, numerous members of Parliament, the chiefs of the army and navy, and the president of the national bank. Congressman Lipinski led the House in observing a moment of silence in memory of the victims. In addition, he delivered the following statement on the floor of the House: “I rise to share my deepest sympathies and solemn condolences with the people of Poland, those of Polish descent in Chicagoland and elsewhere, and most importantly, with the families of those who perished in the horrific plane crash. “Adding to the pain of this terrible tragedy is the fact that President Lech Kaczynski and his delegation were travelling to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Katyn Massacre, the 1940 killing of more than 20,000 Polish officers, intellectuals, and others by Soviet secret police. “President Kaczynski will be deeply missed. Above all, he was determined to ensure the strength, prosperity, and sovereignty of Poland. He valued Poland’s relationship with the United States, and was a strong ally. President Kaczynski was due to visit Chicago next month, and we will greatly miss his presence. “Chicago also mourns the loss of one of our own, Wojciech Seweryn, who perished in the crash. “The Polish and American people have long shared a deep attachment to the values of freedom and independence. Today, with over nine million people of Polish ancestry in the U.S. – including roughly 1 million in Illinois – Poland remains one of America’s closest allies. Our two nations continue to cooperate closely on issues of national security, regional and global stability, democratization, and human rights. Our friendship and partnership have been and will continue to be steadfast. “Throughout history, Poland and the Polish people have always proven to be extremely resilient in the face of oppression and adversity. I know that these traits will help the people of Poland to endure this tragedy. In the days since Saturday’s plane crash, it has been inspiring to see the people of Poland unite and its young democracy respond in a manner in which all Poles can be proud. “I’d like to thank Congresswoman Dahlkemper, as well as Majority Leader Hoyer and the House Foreign Affairs Committee, for working with me to bring this resolution to the floor. “Nothing we say today will make up for the tremendous loss that Poland has suffered and continues to grieve. However, as a proud Polish-American, I hope that by sharing our own grief, sympathy, and unity with the Polish people, we will be able to help them gather the resolve and strength needed to get through such difficult times. I yield back the balance of my time.” Click here for a copy of the resolution. (April 14, 2010) ###
04.21.2010	Former La Grange Pastor and Chicago Native is First Catholic to Serve as House Chaplain Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski's resolution, H. Res. 1216, honoring the Rev. Daniel P. Coughlin on his tenth year of service as Chaplain of the U.S. House of Representatives was approved by a vote of 412-0. A Chicago native and the first Roman Catholic to serve as House Chaplain, Father Coughlin was pastor of St. Francis Xavier Parish in La Grange, located in the Third District, from 1985 to 1990. Prior to the vote, Congressman Lipinski delivered the following statement on the floor of the House: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of House Resolution 1216, congratulating and thanking the Reverend Daniel P. Coughlin for his ten years of service as Chaplain of the House of Representatives. For the past decade, Father Coughlin has admirably fulfilled his duties as Chaplain, blessing this chamber with his thoughtful, eloquent prayers, conducting prayer meetings and spiritual exercises, and - most importantly - fortifying Members, their families, and congressional staff with his wise and generous counsel. "March 23rd marked the 10th anniversary of Father Coughlin's swearing in as the 59th House Chaplain, and - most historically - the first Catholic to hold the position. If you look back to the day Father Coughlin assumed office, Pope John Paul II was visiting Israel for the first time. Gas was under $2 a gallon. And in my home state, and Father Coughlin's, the newspapers noted that morning that a certain attorney from the South Side of Chicago had just lost his bid to join this body. It was, indeed, a long time ago. A great deal has happened since then, and through it all, Father Coughlin has responded to the demands of history, tradition, and faith with great devotion. "As many residents of my district and the Chicago region know, Father Coughlin's service dates back far beyond what he has rendered over the last decade. In fact, just this past Saturday, my wife and I were honored with the opportunity to be a part of the celebration in Chicago of the 50th Anniversary of Father Coughlin's ordination as a priest. "Father Coughlin grew up on the North Side of Chicago and knew from a young age that he would become a priest. He went on to receive degrees from St. Mary of the Lake University and Loyola University. "He was a parish priest before he was named the first Director of the Office for Divine Worship in the Archdiocese of Chicago in 1969. In 1984, during a year-long sabbatical, he spent five months at a Trappist monastery in Kentucky; served the poor in India; and served as scholar-in-residence at North American College in Vatican City. Upon his return, he spent five years as pastor of St. Francis Xavier Parish in La Grange in my district; I know that he is still much-beloved at St. Francis. Following this, he became Vicar for Priests in the Archdiocese of Chicago. "After these four decades of service, Father Coughlin was appointed House Chaplain by Illinois' own former Speaker Dennis Hastert on the recommendation of Cardinal Francis George. In announcing his choice, former Speaker Hastert predicted that 'Daniel Coughlin will bring to the House a caring and healing heart.' The past 10 years have shown that he was undoubtedly correct. I know that in my time in the House, I have seen and experienced this. My own experiences with Father Coughlin range from the opportunity I had with him five years ago this week to be in Rome for the inauguration of Pope Benedict the Sixteenth, to the many conversations we have had about what is currently happening in Chicago, including how his ageless mother - and her Chicago Cubs - are doing. "Mr. Speaker, Father Coughlin's devotion to his faith and the spiritual welfare of his fellow men and women is an inspiration. The House of Representatives is indebted to him for his 'good counsel, encouragement, and gentle correction.' "I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution and in extending to Father Coughlin the sincere thanks and congratulations that he deserves." Click here to view Congressman Lipinski's remarks on the House floor. Click here to view a copy of the resolution. (April 21, 2010) ###
04.16.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement on recent reports that the Census is purchasing promotional material manufactured overseas: “The Census has some explaining to do, and so far it’s not providing much clarity. Our government should be complying not just with the letter but with the spirit of the Buy American Act. That’s especially true right now, in the middle of the worst economy in decades with 15 million Americans out of work. Blaming subcontractors or claiming the purchases are too small to matter isn’t going to cut it. American taxpayers are spending over $14 billion to pay for the census, including hundreds of millions on this communications campaign. If nothing else, the Census could write Buy American rules into its contracts with private vendors. While the Census claims it was trying to save money, it doesn’t save us any money to destroy American jobs by purchasing from foreign companies.” Congressman Lipinski also sent the letter below to the Census Bureau objecting to its purchase of products made outside the United States. Congressman Lipinski has been a leader in Congress fighting to enforce existing Buy American rules and close loopholes that make it too easy for the federal government to purchase foreign-made products. For instance, he recently introduced the Buy American Improvement Act, H.R. 4351, to ensure that taxpayer money is used to purchase American-made products and support American jobs whenever possible. This legislation would specifically prohibit the practice of “segmenting” purchases --- dividing one large purchase up into many smaller purchases --- which is what the Census appears to be using to avoid Buy American requirements. Click here to view text of the letter. (April 16, 2010) ###
04.14.2010	Today, under the guidance of Chairman Dan Lipinski, the House Committee on Science and Technology’s Subcommittee on Research and Science Education held a markup and favorably reported legislation based on H.R. 4997, the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2010, which was introduced by Chairman Lipinski. “The Subcommittee has held a series of hearings on topics ranging from the state of STEM education at all levels, to the need to promote high-risk/high-reward research, to ensuring a sustainable research infrastructure. In addition to our Subcommittee hearings, I’ve also held a number of listening sessions across the country to gain insights from those on the frontline of research facilitated by the NSF,” statedChairman Lipinski. “The result of the listening sessions and the Subcommittee hearings is a bill that will accelerate the growth of scientific knowledge, promote knowledge transfer and innovation, build a 21st century Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) workforce, and spur economic development.” Chairman Lipinski’s bill keeps NSF on a doubling path, as was recommended in the 2005 National Academies’ report Rising Above the Gathering Storm and set in the 2007 America COMPETES Act. It aims to help scientists and engineers funded by NSF to serve as more effective leaders and participants in STEM education; broaden participation in STEM at all levels; and ensure U.S.competitiveness and national security through technology transfer and commercialization. The reauthorization directs NSF to spend at least five percent of its research budget to fund high-risk, high-reward research proposals. This was based on reports and recommendations from Rising Above the Gathering Storm, the 2007 National Science Board’s Enhancing Support of Transformative Research at the National Science Foundation, the 2008 American Academy of Arts and Sciences’ ARISE: Advancing Research in Science and Engineering, and witness testimony at a hearing on the subject last October. Chairman Lipinski’s bill will also help NSF support U.S.manufacturers by awarding grants to institutions of higher education to support fundamental research leading to transformative advances in manufacturing technologies, processes, and systems that will support U.S.manufacturing through improved performance, productivity, and competitiveness. The Committee Print includes an amendment from Chairman Lipinski to create an innovation inducement prize pilot program at the NSF. “This is another way to encourage high-risk, high-reward research,” Chairman Lipinski said. “Unlike a traditional grant proposal, which necessarily focuses on incremental challenges that can be solved during the grant period, a prize contest can highlight important problems that nobody knows how to solve. A prize program can also generate excitement and interest in the frontiers of science. Ultimately the goal is to further diversify our approach to funding science and engineering. There are a number of potential benefits, and a pilot program is the right way to see exactly how useful innovation inducement prizes can be.” The Committee also approved a Manager’s Amendment from Chairman Lipinski which included legislative language from three bills: H.R. 4998, H.R. 4955, and H.R. 4968. H.R. 4998 establishes and expands partnerships that promote innovation and increase the economic and social impact of research by developing tools and resources to connect new scientific discoveries to practical uses. The Transforming Undergraduate STEM Education Act, H.R. 4955, authorizes the NSF to provide grants for implementing or expanding research-based reforms in undergraduate STEM education for the purpose of increasing the number and quality of students studying toward and completing baccalaureate degrees in STEM. H.R. 4968 authorizes the NSF to award grants for implementing or expanding research-based reforms in master's and doctoral level STEM education that emphasize preparation for diverse careers in the STEM workforce. “American workers remain the most skilled, innovative, and productive in the world,” Chairman Lipinski said. “But we cannot afford to ignore the challenges we face from abroad. We must continue to make substantial and well-targeted investments in research and education that will allow Americato maintain its position at the forefront of the world economy for generations to come. Today, we took an important step in that direction, and I look forward to continuing to work on reauthorizing the rest of the America COMPETES Act.” (April 14, 2010) ###
04.10.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding the death of Polish President Lech Kaczynski and scores of others, including many members of Poland's leadership, in a plane crash near Smolensk, Russia: "This morning's plane crash is a terrible tragedy for Poland and all Poles. The death of President Kaczynski, and of so many others, including numerous members of the country's leadership, is a profound loss. Poland has been a true friend and ally of the United States. And although Poland and the Polish people have endured great suffering throughout history, they have always proven to be resilient. My thoughts and prayers, along with those of millions of other Polish-Americans, many of them here in the Chicago region, are with the Polish people, those who lost their lives, and their families." (April 10, 2010) ###
04.07.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) announced his strong opposition to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's decision to delay the release of a scheduled April 15 report in order to avoid naming China as a currency manipulator. "This delay by Secretary Geithner is another nail in the coffin for tens of thousands of American jobs and hundreds of American businesses," Congressman Lipinski said. "Washington already has waited much too long for China to change its policy of manipulating its currency to destroy American jobs and businesses. We all know China is manipulating its currency to keep the price of its exports artificially low and the price of imports from the United States and elsewhere artificially high. It's time we stopped tip-toeing around the Chinese government and took concrete action to help American workers." Over the weekend, Secretary Geithner issued a statement indicating that he would delay the April 15 Report to Congress on International Economic and Exchange Rate Policies for an unspecified period of time. In the meantime, the administration plans to continue talking to China despite the fact that such discussions have proved fruitless in the past. Although China's currency may be undervalued by as much as 40 percent, Secretary Geithner only hinted at the depths of the problem in his statement. "Talking with China about this issue has done nothing but allow it to continue to steal American jobs during a period of record-high unemployment," said Congressman Lipinski, who also joined 11 other members of the Populist Caucus in issuing a separate letter today opposing Geithner's decision. "What reason do we have to believe that more talk will do anything to change that in the near future? Every day that we wait to take action is another day Chinese manufacturers enjoy an unfair advantage and flood our country with goods that all too often are unsafe or shoddily made. Instead of waiting for China to do whatever it pleases, we need to level the playing field for American companies." Congressman Lipinski was part of a bipartisan group of 130 members of the House of Representatives that sent a letter last month to Secretary Geithner and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke demanding action to combat China's currency manipulation. Among other things, the letter urges the Department of Commerce to apply the U.S. countervailing duty law in defense of American companies that have suffered as a result of manipulation. "By pegging the renminbi to the U.S. dollar at a fixed exchange rate, China unfairly subsidizes its exports and disadvantages foreign imports," the letter states. "As we work to promote a robust U.S. economic recovery, it is imperative that we address this paramount trade issue with all available resources." (April 7, 2010) ###
03.21.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement regarding his decision to vote against the Senate health care bill: “My decision to vote against the Senate health care bill is the result of months of studying our broken health care system, developing and analyzing various proposals for reform, studying legislation, and listening closely to my constituents. I want to thank each and every one of the thousands of Third District residents who contacted me by phone, fax, email, and in person to share their views for and against the bill. “As I have said many times, I strongly believe reform is needed to lower soaring health care costs and make insurance coverage more affordable and accessible for individuals and working families. But reform must be done right. The Senate bill does make a number of improvements to our health care system, including expanding access and reforming health insurance by doing such things as immediately banning discrimination based on pre-existing conditions for children, prohibiting lifetime coverage limits, and banning rescissions. Unfortunately, the bill also contains a number of serious flaws, and many of the good aspects could have been done without passing this massive bill. The Senate bill does not do enough to lower the skyrocketing cost of health care, cuts more than $400 billion from Medicare, is not fiscally sustainable over the long term, and breaks with the status quo by providing federal funding for abortion and abortion coverage. This bill was also marred by backroom deals that benefit pharmaceutical companies and other special interests. In the final analysis, I cannot support such a deeply flawed bill. “Last November, after successfully fighting to make numerous improvements to the initial House health care bill, I voted to move the measure forward. I did so because I did not want to give up on reform, and because I believed we might still be able to fix the flaws in the bill before a final vote. However, I made my position very clear at the time, stating: ‘If this bill does not improve when it comes back from the Senate, I will vote against it.’ Unfortunately, the final bill is in many ways worse, not better, than the House legislation. “To deserve the name of reform, a bill of this magnitude ought to make major progress on reducing health care costs, which continue to increase at unsustainable rates. Since 1980, overall spending on health care has risen on average at almost twice the rate of inflation, and per capita health care spending is nearly double what it was 10 years ago. Unless we address these increases, health care will continue to gobble up more and more of people’s income, and more and more of our tax dollars, until we reach a breaking point. Government subsidies alone cannot solve the problem of the increasing burden that skyrocketing health care costs impose on middle class Americans. We must change payment incentives for providers and this bill does not accomplish that. “As the Congressional Budget Office has stated, the Senate health care bill would do little to affect the cost of premiums for those who currently get their health care through large employers. Since 70 percent of Americans who are not on Medicare are in this group, this bill fails to sufficiently reduce costs for the majority of working families in the Third District. The Senate bill also does not include several specific measures that were in the House bill that could increase competition. These include the elimination of the health insurance industry’s anti-trust exemption and a provision to begin to require health care providers to disclose their prices. “I am also concerned that the bill’s more than $400 billion in Medicare cuts could have ramifications for seniors in my district. For instance, the Senate bill reduces Medicare reimbursements to providers – such as hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and home health agencies – by over $200 billion. The Chief Actuary of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has stated that these cuts would likely result in roughly 20 percent of providers becoming unprofitable; this could lead to providers refusing to take care of seniors on Medicare. And if these cuts are going to be made to Medicare, the money should at least be put in the Medicare Trust Fund instead of being spent elsewhere as this bill does. In addition, unlike the House bill, the Senate bill does not allow the government to negotiate for lower drug prices, which I have long supported. “I am also greatly concerned about the impact of this bill on our ballooning deficit. While the Congressional Budget Office has stated that the bill would officially reduce the deficit, close inspection of this analysis reveals serious problems. The CBO counts as deficit reduction over $70 billion in premiums that will be paid into the newly created CLASS Act. This well-intentioned program to provide long-term care for people with disabilities should be keeping this money in a trust fund to pay out future benefits instead of being spent elsewhere. And even if these premiums were kept in a trust fund, CBO states that the CLASS Act is fiscally unsustainable after two decades, when benefit payouts will significantly overwhelm the premiums coming in. Further, $29 billion in increased Social Security receipts are counted towards deficit reduction although they ought to remain in the Social Security Trust Fund. “The bill also does not address this year’s scheduled 21 percent cut in Medicare reimbursements to doctors; when Congress votes to do this, likely later this year, it will cost over $200 billion over the next 10 years. Also, the CBO score assumes that in later years, the growth in federal subsidies would suddenly be allowed to decline, and that the tax on middle-class insurance plans – which I and many others already oppose – would be expanded. If Congress will not do these things today, why would it do so tomorrow? Taken together, these elements more than wipe out the supposed savings. “Finally, of great concern to me and to a significant majority of my constituents, this bill changes current federal policy and provides funding for abortion. This is not acceptable. It is in direct contradiction of the Hyde Amendment, which for more than three decades has prohibited federally funded abortion. First, the bill allows federal funds to subsidize health plans in the insurance exchanges that cover abortion. For any insurance plan that receives federal subsidies and provides abortion, all participants would be required to contribute at least $1 per month that would fund abortion services, regardless of whether they want abortion coverage or not. It also opens the door for Community Health Centers receiving federal funding under the bill to use that money to pay for abortion. I do not believe the last minute effort to address these concerns through an Executive Order is sufficient because there is every indication that federal courts would strike down this order, and the order could be repealed at any time in the future. For all of these reasons, I cannot support the health care bill. I am deeply disappointed that Congress did not develop a better bill. But whatever this bill’s fate, I will not stop fighting against special interests and for improvements to our health care system that will benefit all of the residents of the Third District. And in the days, weeks, and months ahead, I will continue working to create jobs and revive our economy.” (March 21, 2010) ###
03.18.2010	Today, the complete version of the health care bill was finally released, along with the Congressional Budget Office’s estimate of the impact the measure could have on the deficit. A final vote on the health care bill in the House of Representatives is now expected on Sunday. Congressman Lipinski and roughly a dozen of his fellow pro-life House members continue to oppose the bill because it includes federal funding for abortion. Congressman Lipinski’s position on this issue has never changed. Last year, his leadership helped force a last minute change to the House health care bill to prevent funding for abortion. In the event that a similar change is made to the bill this time, Congressman Lipinski will base his vote on a careful analysis of the overall bill. Congressman Lipinski remains concerned about whether the bill does enough to lower soaring health care costs for families, about its long-term effect on America’s budget, and about its impact on seniors on Medicare. He strongly believes that health care reform is needed, but he believes it must be done right. Reform must lower health care costs and make insurance coverage more affordable and accessible. And it must do so without compromising the quality of care, adding to the swollen deficits of our country or our state, or negatively impacting seniors. Congressman Lipinski continues to carefully examine the bill to determine whether it meets these criteria. To read the reconciliation bill that makes changes to the Senate health care bill, click here. To read the Congressional Budget Office’s evaluation of the bill’s fiscal impact, click here. To listen to Congressman Lipinski being interviewed about his views on the health care bill on Wednesday morning, click here. To read his most recent statement on abortion funding in the health care bill, click here. (March 18, 2010) ###
03.18.2010	Former La Grange Pastor and Chicago Native is First Catholic to Serve as House Chaplain Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) introduced a resolution honoring the Rev. Daniel P. Coughlin on his tenth year of service as Chaplain of the United States House of Representatives. A Chicago native and the first Roman Catholic to serve as House Chaplain, Father Coughlin was pastor at St. Francis Xavier Parish in La Grange, located in the Third District, from 1985 to 1990. “It is an honor and a privilege to introduce this resolution today in recognition of Father Coughlin’s outstanding and historic service to the House of Representatives and its members,” Congressman Lipinski said. “His devotion to his faith and the spiritual welfare of his fellow men and women are an inspiration. March 23 will mark the 10th anniversary of Father Coughlin’s swearing in as the 59th House Chaplain. But as many residents of the Third District and the Chicago region know, his service dates back far beyond what he has rendered over the last decade. In fact, Father Coughlin will soon be marking the 50th anniversary of his ordination. I congratulate him on all the good that he has done and all the good that I know he will do in the years ahead. We are indebted to Father Coughlin for, as he himself has put it, his ‘good counsel, encouragement, and gentle correction.’” Congressman Lipinski’s resolution, H. Res. 1185, congratulates Rev. Coughlin “on his tenth year of faithful service as Chaplain.” Cosponsoring the resolution is Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.). Father Coughlin grew up on the North Side of Chicago and knew from a young age that he would become a priest. He went on to receive degrees from St. Mary of the Lake University in Mundelein, Illinois, and Loyola University in Chicago. Rev. Coughlin served as associate pastor at St. Raymond Parish in Mount Prospect, Illinois, and Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago, and was the first Director of the Office for Divine Worship in the Archdiocese of Chicago. During a year-long sabbatical, he spent five months with the Trappist monks of Gethsemani Abbey in Kentucky and served the poor in Calcutta, India through the Missionaries of Charity. In addition, he was scholar in residence at North American College in Vatican City. He then spent five years as pastor of St. Francis Xavier Parish in La Grange, served as Director of the Cardinal Stritch Retreat House in Mundelein, and eventually became Vicar for Priests in the Archdiocese of Chicago. “After decades of service in the Archdiocese of Chicago, Father Coughlin was appointed House Chaplain by Illinois’ own former Speaker Dennis Hastert on the recommendation of Cardinal Francis George,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Today, knowing that many of my constituents have fond personal memories of Father Coughlin – who recently returned to La Grange to visit with some of his former parishioners – I am pleased to extend this tradition of appreciation for his leadership. As we confront difficult decisions and competing demands during an extraordinarily difficult time for our nation, his thoughtful, eloquent prayers and his wise and generous counsel are greatly appreciated in the House.” Click here to view the resolution honoring Rev. Coughlin. (March 16, 2010) ###
03.09.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement today regarding his continuing opposition to any health care reform bill that provides federal funding for abortion: “Last November, I helped lead the successful battle to force House leadership to allow the vote to attach the Stupak-Ellsworth-Pitts-Kaptur-Dahlkemper-Lipinski-Smith amendment to the health care bill to prevent federal funding of abortion. This measure preserved the status-quo prohibition on the use of tax dollars to pay for abortion or insurance that covers abortion, and maintained the decades-old restrictions contained in the Hyde Amendment. My position on this issue has not changed since then. Protecting the sanctity of life is a matter of principle for me and tens of millions of Americans. In addition, an overwhelming majority of Americans oppose the use of tax dollars to pay for abortion. Therefore, if a health care bill that fails to prevent federal funding of abortion is brought to the floor of the House, I will vote against it. Furthermore, I will continue to fight to make sure that any bill that comes to a vote in the House retains the Stupak-Ellsworth-Pitts-Kaptur-Dahlkemper-Lipinski-Smith amendment. “It is clear that the current Senate bill would not only allow tax dollars to fund abortion, but in some cases would require the direct payment of an ‘abortion premium.’ Specifically, for any insurance plan that receives federal subsidies and provides abortion, all participants would be required to contribute at least $1 per month that would fund abortion services, regardless of whether they want abortion coverage or not. This is not acceptable, and is one reason why I cannot support the Senate bill. The Senate bill also allows insurance plans that receive federal funds to cover abortion and does not ban health centers receiving federal funds appropriated in the act from providing abortions. Both of these provisions directly contradict the Hyde Amendment. In addition, the bill contains loopholes that could allow the government to mandate that insurance plans in exchanges created under the billcover abortion. “I recognize that our health care system is deeply flawed. Health care costs are too high and continue to soar, and insurance coverage is difficult or impossible to afford for many middle-class people. We need to alter incentives that increase spending rather than improve health outcomes, increase competition and transparency to drive down costs and help consumers make better choices, help those who are sick or cannot afford insurance, and stop abuses by insurance companies, drug companies, and other health care providers. Reform is needed, but it must be done right. A health care bill that provides federal funds for abortion is not right.” (March 9, 2010) ###
03.05.2010	Linchpin CREATE Project Will Create Jobs, Boost Economy, Slash Metra Delays, Enable High-Speed Rail On Friday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was joined by House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chairman James Oberstar (Minn.), Mayor Richard M. Daley, Governor Pat Quinn, Senator Richard J. Durbin, IDOT Secretary Gary Hannig and numerous other government, business, and labor leaders to announce groundbreaking on the Englewood Flyover is now expected to begin this year thanks to $133 million in new federal funding. "With the construction of the linchpin Englewood Flyover starting this year, the CREATE rail modernization program continues to make great progress from where we began when I secured the first $100 million for it in 2005," Congressman Lipinski said. "This project will create jobs, bolster the economy, cut Metra and Amtrak delays, improve freight efficiency, and enable Midwest high-speed rail. With the $133 million in federal money announced last month, everything is in place and we are ready to go. This is another milestone for CREATE, and a great boost for Chicagoland, the state of Illinois, and the nation. And most importantly in these tough economic times, today's announcement is a real shot in the arm for our local economy. I'm looking forward to working with Chairman Oberstar, Mayor Daley, Governor Quinn, Senator Durbin and all the other leaders who joined me today to continue our success in moving CREATE forward." The Englewood Flyover will create an estimated 1,450 jobs and make high-speed rail possible by building a bridge to carry the Metra Rock Island District line over the Norfolk Southern/Amtrak tracks at 63rd Street in Chicago. In addition, it will eliminate 7,500 annual passenger hours of delay for riders on the Rock Island line and is the critical first step toward future CREATE projects that will eliminate 32,000 annual passenger hours of delay for riders on Metra's Southwest Service line. The only Chicago-area member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Lipinski is the leading advocate for CREATE, which is designed to untangle the Chicago region's rail and transportation system. "This visit has been very useful, because we can see how funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are being put to work," said Rep. James L. Oberstar (Minn.), Chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. "This project, which recently received a $133 million High-Speed Rail Grant from the Department of Transportation, will go a long way toward eliminating delays, reducing locomotive engine idling, cutting emissions, and improving air quality. Funding this key CREATE project will benefit Metra commuters, freight railroads and rail passengers between Chicago and Detroit by eliminating the existing conflict between traffic at this grade crossing daily. This project also lays a critical foundation for future efforts to bring high-speed rail to the Midwest and for other CREATE rail modernization projects to move forward. Congressman Lipinski has been a true champion of the CREATE program, and I look forward to continuing to work with him on this and other transportation projects important to the City of Chicago and the State of Illinois." Currently, delays on the Rock Island line occur when Metra trains are forced to wait for freight and Amtrak trains to cross the Rock Island tracks. Approximately 78 Rock Island trains, 14 Amtrak trains, and 46 Norfolk Southern trains pass through this location each day. Completing the Englewood Flyover will make it possible to address further chokepoints through CREATE and eventually eliminate 32,000 annual passenger hours of delay on Metra's Southwest Service line. Conflicts between and among Southwest Service trains, 90 daily freight trains belonging to four railroads, and Amtrak trains currently produce long delays. Every day, roughly 1,200 trains pass through the Chicago region, supporting more than 38,000 jobs. But over the next 20 years, demand for freight rail service in Chicago is expected to nearly double. If rail capacity and infrastructure issues are not addressed, studies show the Chicago region will miss out on 17,000 additional jobs and $2 billion in annual economic production. CREATE will ensure that the Chicago region is prepared to handle future increases in rail traffic. CREATE will reduce delays and congestion with track, switch, and signal upgrades and by constructing overpasses and underpasses to end conflicts at both rail-rail and highway-rail crossings. CREATE is a first-of-its-kind partnership, bringing together the federal government, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the Chicago Department of Transportation, Metra, and the Association of American Railroads. Ten CREATE projects have already been completed. "CREATE will create jobs, shorten commutes, reduce shipping times, lower fuel usage and pollution, enhance safety, and ensure Chicago remains the nation's transportation hub for decades to come," Congressman Lipinski said. "It's essential that we act now to implement CREATE to grow our region's economy. As the Englewood Flyover shows, that is precisely what we are doing." (March 5, 2010) ###
03.01.2010	Activity Center at St. Gerald in Oak Lawn, IL $150,000 St. Gerald Parish 9310 South 55 Court Oak Lawn, IL 60453 Funds will be used for the construction of an Activity Center at St. Gerald in Oak Lawn, IL. The activity center will offer a fitness center and gym for the children and adults of the community as well as meeting or gathering rooms for the senior and handicapped adults and community groups. At present, meetings are held in Chappel Hall, which is not accessible to many senior citizens. Children from the community would be able to utilize the fitness center, play active games in the meeting rooms and be involved in sports in the gym portion. The purpose of the project is to provide a safe environment for youth and adults to socialize, participate in good health activities, and provide an intergenerational activity area in a handicap accessible facility. Over two-thousand families will have the opportunity to develop healthy habits through physical activities, nutrition classes, utilizing fitness equipment, and developing a social network for support. The Activity Center will expand services and programs to include a daytime activity area for young parents in a Moms and Tots program, Extended Day/Day Care motor skills activity area, a preschoolers’ paradise with climbing and play equipment as well as educational programs, and a life center support group for senior citizens. Future plans include a park-like play center for all the children in the community. Opportunities for community service volunteers will be plentiful to allow expanding programs to meet the changing needs of families. Funding requested from the Department of Housing and Development will support the well-being programs for seniors and youth. -- Advocate Christ Medical Center/Advocate Hope Children’s Hospital in Oak Lawn, IL Pediatric Emergency Care Center Expansion $500,000 Advocate Health Care 2025 Windsor Drive Oak Brook, IL 60523 To address the current and growing need for expert pediatric emergency and trauma care on the south side of Chicago and the suburban southland communities, Advocate Christ Medical Center/Advocate Hope Children’s Hospital in Oak Lawn, IL seeks federal funding to support an expansion and renovation of its Pediatric Emergency Care Center. Specifically, the funding will help: develop an expanded pediatric emergency care reception area and an associated pediatric triage area; increase the clinical pediatric emergency treatment area and double patient capacity from eight beds to sixteen; and create child-friendly waiting, triage, and treatment spaces. There has been growing recognition that children are not “small adults” – the ill, or injured child has very special needs and requires a different approach to care. Since the establishment of the National Emergency Medical Services for Children program, much-needed attention and provision of special services have been given to the unique needs of pediatric emergency patients. Due to space constraints, only 65% of the children presenting in the Emergency Department (ED) at Advocate Christ Medical Center can be seen in the Pediatric Emergency Care Center. The remaining 35% must be seen in the adjacent adult ED. There is often no specialized pediatric equipment in this area and children are treated alongside adult gunshot and heart attack victims, creating a more terrifying environment for these already frightened young patients. Annually, nearly 1,000 injured, or ill, children and their families leave the ED without obtaining treatment, because of the overcrowding and long waits; either they go to another hospital, or families decide that the child’s condition does not really require emergency care. With the 2008 closure of the only other trauma center serving Chicago’s southland – St James Hospital at Olympia Fields – the overcrowding and overall demand at the Advocate Christ Medical Center/Advocate Hope Children’s Hospital ED have continued to increase. Federal funding to support the much-needed expansion and renovation of the Pediatric Emergency Care Center would increase the hospital’s capacity to see and treat pediatric patients who are facing urgent and emergency situations that necessitate immediate care. -- Argonne National Laboratory: Advanced Strategies for Secure Mobil Cyber-Infrastructure $4,000,000 Argonne National Laboratory 9700 South Cass Avenue Argonne, IL 60439 Funding will be used to conduct research and development on the privacy and security of mobile devices and services, addressing increased vulnerabilities for individual citizens and public and private organizations. The project includes: 1) exploring vulnerabilities associated with mobile devices and location-based applications, concurrent with protection techniques and protocols; 2) investigating interactions of mobile devices and sensors within buildings regarding privacy and security; and 3) developing mathematical and computational models of networks of fixed/mobile devices and algorithms to detect threats in real time. While it is well established that cyber security is one of the greatest vulnerabilities of our country, current cyber security practices and policy struggle to keep pace with rapidly evolving threats in this arena. Security and privacy – that is, consumer safety – are extremely difficult to retrofit and yet are insufficiently understood in new markets and with new technologies and services. Leveraging Federal investment and private partnerships to develop privacy and security architectures, understand potential vulnerabilities, and provide design guidance and tools now- while they are shared and pre-competitive - will help to ensure that U.S. industry can compete globally without sacrificing consumer safety. A significant and largely unaddressed area of particular importance is the emergence of “smartphones” and their associated services that impact the privacy of citizens and the security of public- and private sector organizations. Through the adoption of social networks and location-based services, consumers are unaware of the extent to which their private information – including their movement – is becoming available, or to whom. Coupled with this disclosure of information, the increasingly sophisticated sensing capabilities, from cameras to microphones to positioning systems, extend security and privacy concerns from the individual carrying the mobile device to the individuals around them and the facilities they enter. The dynamic nature of these threats, coupled with rapidly evolving information technologies and services, makes it essential that we move beyond merely countering known threats to developing systems that can adapt to, and defend against, unforeseen attacks. -- Building Customer Service Capacity for Serving Customers with Disabilities $80,000 The West Suburban Chamber of Commerce and Industry Foundation 9440 West Joliet Road Hodgkins, IL 60525 Based on past initiatives with people with disabilities and self advocacy, the organization has found many front line customer service staff do not receive specific training on how to provide service to customers with disabilities. To address this issue, they are currently laying the groundwork to develop surveys, training materials and establishing networks. Funding would be used to implement training to businesses and organizations on service provision and customer service to people who have disabilities. They intend to train a minimum of 200 businesses and organizations. From a citizen focus, this project is an avenue to promote meeting the needs of all customers with dignity and respect. The project will have a significant impact on all interactions with people with disabilities. -- Building Renovation Project for Senior Services at Aging Care Connections, La Grange, IL $200,000 Aging Care Connections 111 West Harris Avenue La Grange, IL 60525 The funding would be for the environmentally friendly renovation of the existing senior services facility. Aging Care Connections is the designated provider of Title III services of the Older Americans Act administered through the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on Aging. As a part of the national Aging Services Network, Aging Care Connections is the only organization in the service area selected to offer federal and state sponsored programs for older adults and their caregivers. Aging Care Connections has been offering federally funded services for seniors since 1974 and has consistently met the high standards required by the Administration on Aging, Illinois Department on Aging and the Area Agency on Aging (AgeOptions), as evidenced through program and fiscal compliance reviews on a regular basis. As the number of older adults continues to grow (and subsequently the number of adult children who are thrust into the role of caregiver), requests for assistance to the organization on how to manage care in the home continually increase on a daily basis. By 2030, there will be about 71.5 million older persons or one in every five Americans. The 85+ population is projected to increase to 6.1 million in 2010 and 7.3 million in 2020. In our local area, older adults and their families depend on Aging Care Connections to provide information, assistance, guidance and support for the myriad of issues facing an aging society. Investing taxpayer money in helping seniors to remain independent in their own homes is a much more cost effective way. -- Business Models for Smart Grid Collaboration $250,000 Illinois Science & Technology Coalition 200 E. Randolph, Suite 2200 Chicago, IL 60601 Business Models for Smart Grid Collaboration (BMSGC) is an effort to establish a not-for-profit platform to provide the systems integration role on multi-party smart grid projects in Illinois. By establishing the BMSGC as a collaborative not-for-profit platform, the role of high-cost consultants is alleviated and the competitive pressures that often derail projects as complex as many of those contemplated in smart grid is diffused. Further, collaborative systems integrations strategies for multi-party smart grid projects broaden the participatory base, ensure all partners are working toward common project achievement goals, that partners are using the same standards and honoring interoperability principles when applicable, and provide a platform for a coordinated request for proposal (RFP) and project financing. By establishing the BMSGC it is their objective to work with public and private partners to identify a roster of Illinois smart grid projects, establish a project finance structure to execute these projects and create opportunities for Illinois companies and generate job growth. -- Center for Conservation Leadership $500,000 Chicago Zoological Society/Brookfield Zoo 3300 Golf Road Brookfield, IL 60153 The Chicago Zoological Society plans to renovate and repurpose the now shuttered Reptile House into a new Center for Conservation Leadership (at the Brookfield Zoo) that will be home to the Society’s award-winning conservation education programs. The requested funds will be used for energy efficiency and renewable energy components of the project. The renovation of the Reptile House is critical to the Chicago Zoological Society’s ability to meet the continuing demand for these programs. Classroom spaces will provide the venues necessary to reach more students and teachers. This is especially important as we recently signed a groundbreaking agreement with the Chicago Public Schools to be a resource for science teacher certification. -- Chicago Ridge, IL Metra Station Improvements $190,000 Village of Chicago Ridge 10455 S. Ridgeland Avenue Chicago Ridge, IL 60415 The purpose of the project is to provide for the safe travel of area commuters. This project includes the repair of structurally damaged timber columns, additional repair to components of the building that are in disrepair, and remove and replace the exterior sidewalks to meet the current ADA standards. Safer facilities and handicapped accessibility would further encourage commuters to use public transportation. The Chicago Ridge Metra Station is an intermodal transit facility linking commuters by bus, car, and train. The adjacent bus station on Ridgeland Avenue provides service to the Chicago Ridge Metra Station, as well as parking at the station and at a commuter lot located across Ridgeland Avenue. The intermodal nature of this station not only provides convenience for commuters, but also encourages the sustainability of local businesses such as the Chicago Ridge Mall by providing convenient access for consumers. -- Chicago Transit Hub (Circle Line – Ogden Streetcar) $2,000,000 Chicago Transit Authority 567 W. Lake Chicago, IL 60661 The Chicago Transit Hub (Circle Line – Ogden Streetcar) Project, which is currently in Alternatives Analysis, will connect the existing CTA Orange Line near Ashland with the existing Pink Line Cermak Branch near 18th Street. Also, the project will connect CTA Red and Brown Lines near North/Clybourn with the existing CTA track, and structure near Lake/Paulina. The project will also add new CTA and Metra transfer stations along new and existing CTA tracks to the northwest, west, southwest, and south of Chicago’s Central area. A new rail yard facility and rolling stock will also be added. As one of the major transportation hubs in the United States, Chicago roadways are very congested. This project will alleviate some of that congestion by extending a successful rapid transit line to customers in an area lacking this kind of transit service. -- City of Berwyn, IL Drinking Water Improvements $687,500 City of Berwyn, IL 6700 West 26th Street City of Berwyn, IL 60402 The City of Berwyn has indentified approximately 8,700 feet of various size water distribution main in need of replacement. This project will help replace these water mains that are over half a century old and inadequately sized. Many of the mains in need of replacement are undersized and composed of material not meeting modern standards. The new water mains will help provide an adequate and safe potable water supply to the City’s 56,000 residents. -- City of Countryside Police Department - Law Enforcement Equipment / Technology Upgrades (IL) $135,000 City of Countryside Police Department 5550 East Avenue Countryside, IL 60525 The police department's current communications equipment is outdated and in need of replacement. The project consists of procuring the necessary equipment to enhance the department's ability to communicate more efficiently. Support of this project would provide increased efficiency of communication between dispatchers and responding officers in the field. New portable radios would help officers effectively respond to situations, coordinate tactical efforts in the field and, overall, save lives. -- City of Palos Hills, IL Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation $330,000 City of Palos Hills 10335 Roberts Road Palos Hills, IL 60465 The purpose of this project is to eliminate sanitary sewage overflows from occurring into Stony Creek, to reduce stormwater inflow and infiltration allowing the City to achieve their ICAP goal of 245 gallons per capita. The project is a valuable use of tax payer dollars as it reduces or eliminates the negative impacts of stormwater inflow and infiltration into a sanitary sewerage system. Inflow and Infiltration are the primary reasons for basement flooding during rain events. Additionally, the project eliminates the negative environmental impact and associated costs to taxpayer when the release of untreated sanitary waste enters the local waterway and surrounding environment. -- Cook County, IL $1,000,000 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Chicago District) 111 N. Canal Street Chicago, IL 60606 The Cook County Environmental Infrastructure fund works to modernize, enhance, and improve Cook County's aging environmental infrastructure system. This project specifically provides technical planning, design and construction assistance to nonfederal interests who have environmental infrastructure needs in Cook County, Illinois. Projects include the development and protection of water supply and waste water systems; combined sewer overflows; and remediation of adverse water quality impacts and storm water impacts to waste water systems. Community Center at St. Daniel the Prophet, Chicago, IL $100,000 St. Daniel the Prophet Church 5300 South Natoma Avenue Chicago, IL 60638 The funding requested from the Department of Housing and Urban Development will be used for the renovation / modernization of Mulligan Hall, developing it into a new community center that will serve the outreach needs of over 12,000 citizens in Garfield Ridge Community on Chicago’s southwest side. Activities at the new community center include: community nursing programs for wellness and fitness evaluations, education and training; counseling and assistance to families in crisis; adult education, job training and computer literacy education for the unemployed; senior citizens activities; youth programs and various sports clinics that promote community service and other constructive activities. This project is a valuable use of taxpayer dollars because it helps to fulfill the mission and vision of the Department of Housing and Urban Development to promote a safe neighborhood and sustainable access to citizens in the areas of education, recreation, job training and such other needs within our city neighborhood. -- Energy Resources Center at the University of Illinois at Chicago $400,000 Energy Resources Center MC 156 1309 S. Halsted St. Chicago, Illinois 60607 The primary purpose of this effort will be to provide base support for the Energy Resources Center (ERC) to enable the ERC to greatly expand its outreach and technical assistance efforts in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable technologies for the commercial, institutional and industrial sectors in Illinois and the Midwest. Energy costs and supply concerns are straining Illinois and Midwest businesses and industries as they strive to remain competitive and retain jobs. Cost effective investments in energy efficiency can be a major impetus for companies to remain competitive, but they often lack sound objective information or technical capabilities to evaluate the best investment opportunities. This effort through the ERC will provide the companies with access to an objective source for assistance in analyzing energy related investment decisions. These types of private sector energy capital investments have a proven track record of improving the profitability of companies while saving and creating jobs, resulting in a stronger overall economic outlook for the state, the region, and the country. -- Expansion and Renovation - Community Nurse Health Association $250,000 Community Nurse Health Association 23 Calendar Avenue La Grange, IL 60525 The project’s purpose is to expand the adult clinic at Community Nurse in order to most efficiently meet increased demand for accessible healthcare services for uninsured adults in the region. The current structure of the adult clinic at Community Nurse is not set up to accommodate further patient expansion. Currently, only one provider can be scheduled at any one time, as patient treatment space is limited to three exam rooms for all physician visits, nurse visits and lab draws. Patient capacity is limited to 1,280 patients unless provider time is increased. The goal of the Network is to build and maintain a collaborative structure that delivers defined health services to the uninsured in the region in a systematic, effective and efficient fashion, thereby increasing healthcare access opportunities for this population. By doing so, the costs per patient within the Network’s model will be less than the costs per patient in a typical managed care insurance plan, with more comprehensive and coordinated care given. Annual costs per patient per year in an insurance plan may reach $4,000; through the Network, annual costs per patient per year will be under $1,000. As a result, patients will rely less on costly emergency department visits and establish a relationship with a medical home, yielding better patient outcomes. -- Greater LaGrange YMCA - Healthy Hearts Program $200,000 Greater LaGrange YMCA 1100 E. 31st Street LaGrange Park, IL 60525 The Greater LaGrange YMCA and Robert Crown Center will establish a nine-week community-based pilot program to address childhood overweight in the western suburbs. The program will be repeated with new participants five times, allowing for formative evaluation and ample time to measure program outcomes. The program involves a variety of activities to address nutrition and fitness including physical activity, games, discussion and surveys utilizing curriculum designed by the Consortium to Lower Obesity in Chicago Children. This program is designed to educate youth and their families about healthy food choices, as well as changing nutrition patterns, reducing sedentary lifestyles, increasing physical activity, increasing self-esteem, and encouraging positive self-image. During, and following the program, the families will have access to a variety of facility offerings. The families will be aided by the YMCA’s behavior change specialists and community experts. The concern over youth obesity is well-documented and wide-ranging. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention consider the prevalence of overweight and obese children to be an epidemic and a top health threat. Chicago’s Consortium to Lower Childhood Obesity (CLOCC) says children are at the center of the epidemic and researchers estimate that between 25 and 30 percent of grade school children are obese or overweight. Nationwide the childhood obesity rate has more than doubled over the past three decades for preschool children aged 2-5 and for adolescents aged 12-19, and it has more than tripled for children aged 6-11 years (Preventing Childhood Obesity: Health in the Balance, 2005 - Institute of Medicine). Childhood obesity and overweight is an extremely important matter because it not only affects a young persons health now, if not remedied, it has serious implications for their long-term health. Overweight and obesity has been proven to increase a young persons chances of developing adult heart disease and diabetes. It lowers lowers life expectancy and puts them at risk for developing psychosocial burdens in a society that stigmatizes this condition. Overweight and obesity causes hypertension, orthopedic problems, depression, sleep apnea, disorders of the blood, liver and gall bladder (dyslipidemia, hepatic steatosis, and cholelithiasis) and can lead to metabolic syndrome, arthritis and even cancer (Preventing Childhood Obesity: Health in the Balance 2005 - Institute of Medicine). -- High Fidelity Medical Simulation to Optimize Healthcare Delivery and Teamwork for Military Use $3,500,000 Northwestern University 633 Clark Street 2-642 Evanston, IL 60208 Poor healthcare coordination and teamwork adversely affects military personnel with the Tricare and Veterans Administration healthcare system as much as it does in public sector. Medical teams, especially those who work in clinical units or “Microsystems” are primarily responsible for adverse events that occur and harm patients. Healthcare quality and patient safety research indicates that this harm is due to latent “risks” in the system. Poor teamwork is the typical “trigger” that springs the “trap.” The proposed program will positively and substantially impact healthcare delivery for U.S. military, their families, and rapidly, the general public, by providing tools for diagnosing and treating the latent threats and improving healthcare teamwork and delivery to both soldiers ad civilians. -- Illinois Community College Sustainability Network – Green Jobs Centers $2,000,000 Illinois Community College Sustainability Network - Southwestern Illinois College (Fiscal Agent) 2500 Carlyle Avenue Belleville, IL 62221 Since its inception in 2008, the Illinois Community College Sustainability Network has worked to establish regional sustainability centers on campuses throughout Illinois and to design public education programs and green jobs training curricula for use by Network member colleges. Funds will be used to hire staff, purchase services, develop curricula, and promote community outreach at 10 new Green Jobs Centers located throughout Illinois in areas of high unemployment. According to the U.S. Labor Department, the State of Illinois unemployment rate for December 2009 reached 10.8 percent. Manufacturing and construction were the hardest hit. These newly unemployed are in an urgent need of workforce training and education that can lead to stable employment with living wages and opportunities for advancement. Green jobs are part of the answer and represent a dramatically expanding sector in the nation’s economy. -- INTERBASIN CONTROL OF GREAT LAKES-MISSISSIPPI RIVER AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES, IL, IN, OH, WI $2,500,000 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Chicago District) 111 N. Canal Street Chicago, IL 60606 In collaboration with Federal, State and local agencies and nongovernmental entities, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) is conducting a Feasibility Study of the options and technologies (controls) that could be applied to prevent or reduce the risk of aquatic nuisance species (ANS) transfer between the Great Lakes (GL) and Mississippi River (MR) basins through aquatic pathways. ANS are non-native species that threaten existing significant natural resources. For the purposes of this study, aquatic pathways are natural and manmade hydraulic connections between the GL and MR basins. As provided in the Congressional authorization and USACE Implementation Guidance , the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS) will provide a thorough and comprehensive analysis of these ANS controls. Additionally, GLMRIS will analyze the affects each alternative plan would have on the current uses of the Chicago Area Waterway System (CAWS), including the Chicago Sanitary Ship Canal (CSSC), and other identified aquatic pathways between the GL and MR basins. See the attached map of the CAWS. Current uses include but are not limited to commercial and recreational navigation, flood control, effluent conveyance, water supply and recreation. This study shall also address the need to mitigate or provide alternative facilities or measures for current uses that may be affected by study recommendations. -- Little Company of Mary - Comprehensive Care Center, Oak Lawn, IL $500,000 Little Company of Mary Hospital and Health Centers 2800 W. 95th Street Evergreen Park, IL 60805 Little Company of Mary is constructing and developing a 35,000 square foot Comprehensive Care Center in Oak Lawn, IL in order to extend its quality clinical services to a broader geographic area that has healthcare ties to the hospital. The project includes a Multi-modality Imaging Center with MRI, CT, Ultrasound, X-Ray services; as well as an Urgent Care Center, Cardiology and Pulmonary services, laboratory services and physician office space. Funding would be used for construction of the facility and equipment. The establishment of the Comprehensive Care Center in Oak Lawn, Illinois allows the Little Company of Mary Hospital to offer health care services that are more accessible, and cost-effective to the families and individuals that have been associated with LCMH over many years. The presence of Little Company of Mary in a neighborhood and region that is in need of Urgent Care and Imaging Services will further the delivery of healthcare to greater numbers of individuals and provide state-of-the-art diagnostic services. The economic development factors associated with this $18 million new facility are significant for the Oak Lawn community. It is expected that there will be significant temporary and permanent jobs created as a result of this initiative. -- MCCOOK AND THORNTON RESERVOIRS, IL U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Chicago District) 111 N. Canal Street Chicago, IL 60606 $40,000,000 Completing the McCook and Thornton Reservoirs and bringing them fully on-line is crucial to local communities as it provides: flood protection to over 3.5 million people in northeastern Illinois, urban environmental restoration and water quality benefits that include the return of native fish species to area waterways, and the protection of Lake Michigan the source of our drinking water. Without timely completion of the project, communities will face decreased drinking water allocations, significant decreases in water quality and thousands of homes will be vulnerable to flooding. -- Metra IL (Union Pacific Northwest Line; Union Pacific West Line; SouthEast Service Line; STAR Line) Metra 547 West Jackson Blvd Chicago, IL 60661 Language Request: Sec. __. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made available in FY 2008 (P.L. 110-161) for METRA Connects Southeast Service, Illinois, METRA Star Line, Illinois, METRA Union Pacific Northwest Line, Illinois, METRA Union Pacific West Line, Illinois and funds made available in FY 2009 (P.L. 111-8) for Metra, Illinois, shall be made available until expended. Metra is seeking a continuance of the obligation authority originally provided by Congress in the FY 2008 and FY 2009 transportation appropriations bills for the below New Start Lines. Since its formation, Metra has remained focused on its fundamental mission to preserve, modernize, and expand commuter rail service throughout the six-county metropolitan region. As such, Metra will be submitting revised financial plans to expand service on the Union Pacific West Line and the Union Pacific Northwest Line to the Federal Transit Administration in the coming weeks and will seek the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) authorization to enter into Preliminary Engineering (PE) on the Lines. The Suburban Transit Access Route (STAR) and SouthEast Service Lines are further behind in the FTA process, but Metra expects to submit those projects to FTA for PE approval later in 2010. An extension of an additional year will allow Metra to continue to move the projects forward during this challenging economic time. These projects, upon completion, will provide much-needed new service for the system and riders. Additional information on Metra’s SAFETEA-LU authorized New Starts projects is below. • The proposed SES Line will provide commuter rail service in a corridor that has been traditionally underserved by transit. Service on this new 33 mile route will terminate at the LaSalle Station in downtown Chicago. The new service will provide new commuting opportunities for thousands of riders along the corridor. This will allow for better access to existing jobs in Chicago and along the corridor, as well as attract new businesses eager to take advantage of access to Metra rail lines. • The proposed STAR Line goes beyond providing a service to a single corridor or portion of the suburban areas. Rather, the STAR Line establishes key rail connection throughout the northwest, west, and southwest suburbs and also offers the basis for expanded suburban rail service in the future. The STAR Line creates a long-needed alternative to the automobile for nearly 1.2 million employees who commute to work at businesses located along the alignment. It also provides an effective and proven transportation option to nearly 1.6 million residents who today live in an area chronically plagued by highway congestion. By linking nearly 100 communities in the southwest, west, and northern suburbs, the STAR Line fills a critical void in inter-suburban travel. • The UP-NW Line is Metra’s longest line, extending 63 miles from the Ogilvie Transportation Center in downtown Chicago to Harvard, with a 7 mile branch to McHenry. This line’s 65 trains per day serve 16 suburban stations in portions of McHenry, Lake and Cook Counties and seven City of Chicago Stations. Improvements will provide for more and faster service on the branch, as well as attract new riders in a growing area and reduce station access times for existing area residents who now drive a distance to another line which has faster service. • The UP-W Line project will build upon the recent extension to Elburn and create needed capacity with new corridor improvements, while continuing to deliver safe, reliable and affordable service to Metra riders. The UP-W Line extends from Ogilvie Transportation Center in downtown Chicago nearly 44 miles west to Elburn. Along that corridor, it serves 18 outlying stations within Kane, DuPage and Cook Counties. The Line currently offers 59 commuter trains per weekday, 29 inbound and 30 outbound, with passengers making approximately 30,000 daily trips. The UP-W Line improvements will allow Metra to offer UP-W line commuters more express trains and more reverse commute trains. -- Metra - Positive Train Control, IL $3,000,000 Metra 547 West Jackson Blvd Chicago, IL 60661 The Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-432), requires all Class I railroads and commuter rail systems will to begin submit plans to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) that will outline how each system will meet and implement Positive Train Control (PTC) requirements. PTC, according to the FRA is “technology that is capable of preventing train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, and casualties or injuries to roadway workers (e.g., maintenance-of-way workers, bridge workers, signal maintainers) operating within their limits of authority as a result of unauthorized incursion by a train.” The safety benefits to the traveling public and the workers that operate and maintain the rail systems cannot be understated. In order to meet the PTC implementation requirements and thereby greatly improve the safety and operations for our system, Metra is implementing a multi-year program that will ultimately provide system-wide PTC that will provide safety benefits to over 83 million Illinois riders a year. Improving interoperability is one of the priority factors for this program. Because of Chicago’s unique role as a key hub in national freight and passenger rail system, the benefits derived from this grant request will have national safety benefits and implications. -- Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago - Explore Blue Planet • Red Planet (Explore) $1,000,000 Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago (MSI) 57th Street and Lake Shore Drive Chicago, IL 60637 Funding will be used for exhibit design, fabrication, and personnel, as well as infrastructure construction of Explore Blue Planet • Red Planet (Explore). The project will help facilitate cooperative, hands-on learning in science, technology, medicine and engineering (STEM), providing resources and experiences for students and teachers not typically available in traditional classroom settings, creating access to role models in the sciences and opportunities for students and their teachers to think independently and to solve authentic science problems. -- National Center for Food Safety and Technology, IL (project and language request): $3,000,000 Illinois Institute of Technology 10 West 33rd Street Room 223, Perlstein Hall Chicago, IL 60616 Food borne illness outbreaks continue to make headlines and worry consumers here in the US and overseas. In the US alone, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) estimates that food-borne diseases result in 76 million illnesses, with 325,000 hospitalizations, and 5000 deaths, each year. In addition, the complexity of issues relating to food safety has also increased considerably in recent years. This collaborative program between government, academia and industry at the National Center plays is focused on the development of science-based interventions and regulations based on preventing food borne illness. Language Request: The Committee recognizes the contributions which the National Center for Food Safety & Technology is making towards ensuring the security and safety of the nation’s food supply. The Committee therefore directs the Food & Drug Administration to fund the National Center through their cooperative agreement at a level of not less than in the previous two years. -- North Riverside, IL - Veteran's Park Playground Construction / Equipment & Park Improvements Village of North Riverside 2401 South Des Plaines Ave. North Riverside, IL 60546 $135,000 The Village’s Recreation Department has identified the construction of playground equipment at Veteran’s Park as a very high priority. The scope of work includes earth excavation, playground equipment installation, underdrain system installation, installation of an engineered wood fiber playground surface, topsoil placement, sod replacement, and all appurtenant construction. Construction of this playground equipment will improve area drainage and increase the recreational opportunity for both existing and future residents and taxpayers alike. Since area residents will no longer need to drive to other area community parks, the project will also reduce automobile traffic, improve public health, and reduce emissions. This results in a better quality of life for all taxpayers, and cleaner air and water for our environment. -- Northern Illinois University Hybrid Locomotive Battery Charging Technology Research $500,000 Northern Illinois University 1425 West Lincoln Highway Dekalb, IL 60115 This project will fund a hybrid locomotive battery charging technology concept study to be conducted by NIU, which includes route performance simulations as well as the design of energy transfer architecture and power conditioning methods for charging batteries with regenerated dynamic braking energy. The purpose of this concept study is to identify and define optimal energy storage and management systems that will provide significant efficiency gains for specialized road locomotives over designated routes. Equipment allocation between the host locomotive and battery slug will also be defined. The specific objective of the overall project is to maximize the energy savings associated with reduced fuel usage through energy recovery. Currently, a large amount of energy is dissipated in dynamic braking grids. The energy recovered by a regenerative braking system and stored by a set of batteries will be used to supplant what would otherwise be provided by diesel fuel. A reduction in fuel consumption by freight locomotives would result in less dependence on foreign sources of oil as well as improved air quality standards in the communities where freight locomotives operate. -- Northern Illinois University Vibration and Acoustics Center $500,000 Northern Illinois University 300 Altgeld Hall DeKalb, IL 60115 Northern Illinois University (NIU) will continue to expand the research and development activities of the Vibration and Acoustics Center in the following areas: audio-integrated active noise control infant incubators; active noise control electronic helmets; vibration control for essential tremor in Parkinson patients and war-wounded soldiers; accelerated testing, including the effect of material properties; computational aspects of active vibration control; and, finite element model updating. The outcomes of the proposed research are of interest to many U.S. industries because the interdisciplinary approach used by the Center provides thorough and meaningful solutions leading to the development of smoother, quieter and longer-lasting products. Many of the outcomes will improve human life and will offer opportunities for the technology to be commercialized by new or existing manufacturing companies. Each area of research and development proposed is intended to address specific problems, including: • NIU is working to produce a destructive anti-noise sound for canceling the primary noise inside infant incubators and introducing an intrauterine audio into the incubator that promotes infant health, instead of using sound-blocking materials that are especially ineffective for low-frequency noise. The active noise control techniques are intended to prevent adverse health effects on babies in incubators that result from exposure to noise. • The electronic helmets project is working to design and develop electronic helmets that use active noise control for reducing noise levels inside helmets. These electronic helmets can be used for riders and passengers of motorcycles, snowmobiles, all-terrain and military vehicles, as well as for workers on construction sites and in manufacturing plants. • Essential tremor is the most common form of pathological tremor and is a major source of functional disability, affecting daily living tasks of people with Parkinson’s disease or many war-wounded soldiers. It is characterized by involuntary oscillations of a part of the body. When severe, it can be disabling and may result in difficulty writing and handling tools. NIU researchers are working on the application of active vibration control to reduce the tremor using an artificial arm. • There is a need to be able to predict the useful life of a component part which has been tested for a very short time at a high level of excitation to predict its long-term behavior during normal usage. For example, in the automotive industry, companies are facing increased pressure for high-quality products and shorter design and test cycle times. This project will explore the effects of damping, appropriate selection of slope of fatigue diagram, and other issues that may affect the accelerating factor. • The computational aspects of the active vibration control project will develop computationally-sophisticated and practically implementable algorithms for both active vibration control and finite model updating. Resonance and other forms of instability in vibrating structures, such as bridges, highways, aircraft and spacecraft, and automobiles are undesirable. Since only a few
02.25.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that his leadership helped secure a federal grant that will pay to reconstruct the railroad viaduct at 29th Street and Stewart Avenue in Bridgeport. “Anyone who has ever inched their way through this underpass can tell you it needs a major overhaul,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I’m pleased to report that thanks to the funding I helped obtain, this important project is set to move forward.” The work will cost an estimated $380,000, and entails curb and gutter replacement, sidewalk replacement, and road surface replacement. Improved safety and access for motorists, pedestrians, and the disabled will result, along with better stormwater drainage of the street and sidewalk. Funding for the viaduct work comes from a $100 million federal grant that Congressman Lipinski helped obtain for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency rail modernization program. CREATE will create jobs, reduce traffic delays, shorten commutes, decrease shipping times, lower fuel usage and pollution, enhance safety, and ensure Chicago remains the nation’s transportation hub for decades to come. Congressman Lipinski is a leading advocate for CREATE, having helped to secure $633 million for the program since 2005. In addition to repairing aging infrastructure, CREATE will reduce delays and congestion with track, switch, and signal upgrades and by constructing 31 overpasses and underpasses to end conflicts at both rail-rail and highway-rail crossings. Ten CREATE projects have already been completed. “The 29th Street viaduct is another great example of the benefits that CREATE is providing to the residents of the Third District,” Congressman Lipinski said. “I’m looking forward to continuing to lead the fight for more funding for this essential program.” (February 25, 2010) ###
02.25.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) introduced the bipartisan National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, to help American manufacturing rebound from recent job losses and to ensure it is equipped to thrive in the 21st Century. The bill will result in a long-term plan for bolstering domestic manufacturing that reflects the input of a diverse array of industry leaders and stakeholders and that consists of non-binding goals and recommendations with broad private-sector support. “As the source of millions of good-paying jobs, a critical component of our national security, and a major contributor to technological innovation, manufacturing remains one of the pillars of the American economy and the middle class,” Congressman Lipinski said. “But the industry has lost 2.1 million jobs since the start of the recession, and faces tougher competition from abroad than ever before. We’ve got to act now to prevent more jobs from migrating overseas and to provide the right environment for our manufacturers to prosper. This is especially true in a world where other nations are doing everything they can to give their manufacturers an edge, or even an unfair advantage. This bill takes an approach to bolstering manufacturing that has a broad, bipartisan appeal. It aims to help businesses of all sizes in every sector of the industry.” “Manufacturing is the lifeblood of the American economy and its success is key to putting Americans back to work,” said Congressman Don Manzullo (R-Ill.), co-Chair of the House Manufacturing Caucus. “For too long, manufacturing has faced second-class treatment from our government as American industries have withered under intense global competition and jobs have gone overseas. It’s time the Administration gets serious and implements an agenda to strengthen American manufacturing and restore American jobs, and that’s exactly what this legislation will require.” Although there are numerous federal programs to support American manufacturing, overall our manufacturing policy is disjointed, ad hoc, and reactive. Meanwhile, manufacturers in other countries benefit from more focused policymaking. Under the National Manufacturing Strategy Act, the Administration in consultation with a newly established Manufacturing Strategy Board would conduct an in-depth analysis of the nation’s manufacturing sector and develop a comprehensive strategy for enhancing its competitiveness and promoting its success in the global economy. The Manufacturing Strategy Board would consist of 21 industry leaders and stakeholders from across the country, representing businesses both large and small. The aim of the strategy, to be issued every four years, is to harmonize manufacturing policy across the government and ensure that it is unified, coherent, forward-looking, and results-oriented. It would yield specific goals and recommendations for all levels of government and the private sector. The Government Accountability Office would be tasked with reviewing the strategy development process and analyzing the implementation of recommendations. In addition, the National Academies of Science would be required to conduct periodic in-depth studies on manufacturing and related issues to aid policymakers in their quadrennial review. In developing this legislation, Congressman Lipinski reached out to many experts and organizations involved in manufacturing, including national industry organizations, corporations, labor unions, academics, think tanks, federal agencies, and others. The final bill represents their feedback, comments, and suggestions. “Congressman Lipinski’s bill reflects his clear understanding that in order to revitalize American manufacturing, we need our own national pro-manufacturing strategy to advance policies that will enhance U.S. industrial competitiveness,” American Iron and Steel Institute President and CEO Thomas J. Gibson said. “It is time for the United States to develop its own manufacturing strategy to help our industry compete in the global economy. This is an important first step in restoring our manufacturing competitiveness.” “Instead of handwringing, we need action that produces results,” Congressman Lipinski said. “America’s manufacturers are among the most innovative and productive in the world. But the fact is they aren’t getting the support they need. By developing a long-term plan with input from a wide range of stakeholders and experts, the National Manufacturing Strategy Act will ensure we are doing all we can to help this vital industry succeed.” Cosponsors of the National Manufacturing Strategy Act include: Representatives Bruce Braley (Chair, Populist Caucus), Aaron Schock, Vern Ehlers, Tim Johnson, Tim Ryan (Co-Chair, Manufacturing Caucus), Don Manzullo (Co-Chair, Manufacturing Caucus), Betty Sutton, Phil Hare, John Dingell, Mike Michaud (Chair, House Trade Working Group), Marcy Kaptur (Co-Chair, Jobs NOW! Caucus), Pete Visclosky (Co-Chair, House Steel Caucus), Charlie Wilson, Linda Sanchez (Co-Chair, Labor & Working Families Caucus), Steve Kagen, Bart Stupak, Stephen Lynch (Co-Chair, Labor & Working Families Caucus), Dave Loebsack, Kathy Dahlkemper, Keith Ellison, Brad Ellsworth, Tom Perriello, Dale Kildee, Gary Peters, Carol Shea-Porter, Gene Taylor, and John Sarbanes. (Feb. 25, 2010) ###
02.23.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that thanks in part to his efforts on behalf of the Village of Oak Lawn over the past year, the Federal Railroad Administration has agreed to allow the Village to quickly establish a railroad quiet zone encompassing the Cicero Avenue and 95th Street crossings on the Southwest Service line. Congressman Lipinski's efforts were key to resolving a technical dispute that led the FRA to delay approval after Oak Lawn initially applied to establish a quiet zone. "For everyone who lives and works in this area, this is great news," Congressman Lipinski said. "I'm very pleased to report that my work with the FRA and the Village of Oak Lawn has paid off. I want to thank the FRA for its responsiveness and for understanding the importance of getting this done." Oak Lawn Village Manager Larry Deetjen said the village intends to send a notice of establishment to the FRA this week. The FRA has agreed that the quiet zone will formally take effect 21 days after it receives the notice. In addition, the FRA has stated it will allow trains to stop sounding their horns at both crossings during the period prior to formal establishment. "The efforts of Congressman Lipinski and his staff were instrumental in securing support and reasonableness from FRA," Village Manager Deetjen said. The FRA requires locomotives to sound their horns at public highway-rail grade crossings, but communities that meet specific safety criteria can establish quiet zones inside of which trains need not use their horns. Trains may still sound their horns in case of emergency. Safety enhancements made by Oak Lawn include the reconstruction of the barrier median at Cicero Avenue to prevent vehicles from going around lowered crossing gates. The FRA has indicated that additional safety improvements may be necessary at several other crossings before a quiet zone can be established that encompasses all crossings in Oak Lawn on the Southwest Service line. Discussion regarding expanding the quiet zone to all crossings in Oak Lawn is ongoing. "I don't believe that living or working near a busy rail line should mean having to put up with train horns at all hours," Congressman Lipinski said. "I'm going to continue working with Oak Lawn and the FRA to bring peace and quiet to everyone who resides along the Southwest Service tracks." (February 23, 2010) ###
02.23.2010	Today, the House Committee on Science and Technology’s Subcommittee on Research and Science Education held a hearing to examine the research and research training infrastructure of universities and colleges. The hearing was held as part of the Committee’s effort to reauthorize the America COMPETES Act. Members and witnesses focused on academic research facilities, cyberinfrastructure capabilities, and the appropriate role of the federal government in sustaining such infrastructure. "Our focus on this legislation is a direct acknowledgement of the fact that America’s science and technology enterprise underpins the long-term economic competitiveness of our country. The partnership between the federal government and our nation’s colleges and universities has been highly successful and has led to a great number of societal and economic benefits,” stated Subcommittee Chairman Daniel Lipinski (IL-03). Witnessed pointed out that as states have faced growing economic challenges, state support for research-related expenses in many public universities has declined, and charitable giving and endowment returns to both public and private institutions have also fallen sharply. “Successful R&D takes more than intellectual freedom and grant funding. You also need state-of-the-art lab space, networks, instruments, and computing facilities. Public institutions especially are suffering as the recession has eroded state support. I am worried that unless we actively modernize our R&D facilities, we could not only be spending federal research dollars inefficiently, but we could lose our position as scientific leaders,” said Lipinski. “Even before the economic downturn, the 2005 Survey of Science and Engineering Research facilities found that academic institutions were deferring $3.5 billion in needed renovation projects.” In addition to supporting cutting edge science through research grants, the National Science Foundation (NSF) invests in the infrastructure that enables such research. Approximately 24 percent ($1.8 billion) of NSF’s FY 2011 budget is devoted to research infrastructure. These infrastructure investments are generally large, multi-user facilities, distributed instrumentation networks, or large pieces of equipment such as telescopes, research vessels, or accelerators that benefit an entire scientific discipline and could not be achieved without significant federal support. The physical infrastructure for research includes not only bricks-and-mortar buildings, but also research instrumentation and a robust cyberinfrastructure. Cyberinfrastructure, which consists of computing systems, data storage systems, data repositories, and advanced instruments, has become increasingly important to all science and engineering disciplines. The Office of Cyberinfrastructure at NSF requested a budget of $228 million in FY 2011, a 6.4 percent increase from FY 2010. Members and witnesses also discussed the balance between investing in the research itself and investing in the infrastructure that underlies and supports both research activities and workforce training. Witnesses noted that investments in infrastructure at their universities have increased the productivity of researchers, and expressed the hope that adequate support for both areas could be achieved without detracting from one or the other. (Feb. 23, 2010) ###
02.16.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that his leadership helped secure a $100 million federal grant for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency rail modernization program. CREATE will create jobs, shorten commutes, reduce shipping times, lower fuel usage and pollution, enhance safety, and ensure Chicago remains the nation's transportation hub for decades to come. Congressman Lipinski led the Chicagoland Congressional delegation in sending a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood requesting this funding in September. Congressman Lipinski is a leading advocate for CREATE, having obtained $100 million for the program in the 2005 federal surface transportation bill and having worked successfully with state leaders to secure $300 million for the program in the new state capital bill in July. Congressman Lipinski also helped lead the charge that resulted in Illinois securing $1.2 billion in federal funding for high-speed rail last month. That figure includes $133 million for the Englewood Flyover, a major project that is a key component of CREATE. "This funding will allow CREATE to continue untangling the knots in the Chicago region's passenger and freight rail system," Congressman Lipinski said. "It will help create jobs, shorten commutes, reduce shipping times, lower fuel usage and pollution, make high-speed rail a reality, and cement our region's position as America's transportation hub. All told, I have helped secure $633 million for CREATE. As the only Chicago-area member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, I plan to add to this already impressive total in the surface transportation bill that Congress is currently working on." The funding for CREATE was provided through the federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program. Every day, roughly 1,200 trains pass through the Chicago region, supporting more than 38,000 jobs. But over the next 20 years, demand for freight rail service in Chicago is expected to nearly double. If rail capacity and infrastructure issues are not addressed, studies show the Chicago region will miss out on 17,000 additional jobs and $2 billion in annual economic production. A project of national economic significance, CREATE will reduce delays and congestion with track, switch, and signal upgrades and by constructing 31 overpasses and underpasses to end conflicts at both rail-rail and highway-rail crossings. CREATE is a first-of-its-kind partnership, bringing together the federal government, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the Chicago Department of Transportation, Metra, and the Association of American Railroads. Six CREATE projects have already been completed. CREATE will provide significant benefits to Congressman Lipinski's Third District. For instance, the Englewood Flyover will eliminate conflicts between Metra trains on the Rock Island line and freight and Amtrak trains, and eventually benefit Metra's Heritage Corridor, Southwest Service line, and BNSF line. Congressman Lipinski discussed the importance of the Englewood Flyover with U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood in August while visiting the site during a tour of CREATE projects. Another project benefitting the Third District is the Brighton Park Junction modernization, which has been completed. That project increased rail capacity on the Heritage Corridor, and Congressman Lipinski is pushing Metra to take advantage of the work done there to add trains to the line. "Failure to prepare for future increases in freight rail traffic would stymie growth and do tremendous harm to our economy," Congressman Lipinski said. "That's why we need to act now to implement CREATE. I'm looking forward to continuing to lead the fight for more funding for this essential program." (Feb. 16, 2010) ###
02.12.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced his intention to introduce a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week. This is the fifth year in a row that Congressman Lipinski, an engineer by training, has introduced a resolution celebrating National Engineers Week, which is now in its 19th year. On Thursday, a bipartisan group of Senators led by Senator Ted Kaufman of Delaware introduced a companion resolution. Running from Feb. 14 to Feb. 20, National Engineers Week brings thousands of engineer volunteers into K-12 classrooms across the country, and includes Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day and the national finals of the Future City Competition for middle-school students. These programs seek to inspire kids and introduce them to engineering while fostering public awareness of the vital contributions made by engineers to our quality of life and economic prosperity. “Whether it is increasing the fuel efficiency of the cars we drive, designing the latest generation of ultra-fast computer chips, developing better ways to protect our troops, or improving American manufacturing, engineers play a tremendously important role in today’s world,” Congressman Lipinski said. “And in the 21st Century, their importance will only increase, as we work to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and respond to increasingly stiff competition from highly skilled workers abroad. In order to meet these challenges, we need to reach out to the youth of today and get them excited about science, technology, engineering, and math.” “National Engineers Week is an important reminder of the significant contributions engineers have made in our society,” Senator Kaufman said. “It’s engineers who will continue to address the major technological and infrastructure challenges of our time – from providing clean water to defending the Nation to developing green energy technologies needed to power the American people into the future.” As one of the few trained engineers in Congress, a former educator, and the Chairman of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee of the House Science and Technology Committee, Congressman Lipinski has pushed for improvements in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education throughout his career. Currently, Congressman Lipinski is working to reauthorize the America COMPETES Act, which was first passed in 2007 in response to the National Academies’ report Rising Above the Gathering Storm. That report warned that America risked losing its place as the world’s scientific and technological leader unless it took action. Improving STEM education at all levels is among the most important steps we can take to ensure that America remains the most technologically innovative country in the world. “I remember the impact that visiting the Museum of Science and Industry had on me when I was young,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Those experiences spoke to me in a very direct and concrete way, and they helped spark my interest in the fields that eventually led me to get a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in engineering. By exposing more kids to the fascinating field of engineering, National Engineers Week opens their eyes to new possibilities and helps America to prepare for the future.” For more information on National Engineers Week, visit www.eweek.org. (Feb. 12, 2010) ###
02.05.2010	Yesterday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass a bill establishing statutory pay-as-you-go requirements that will begin to restore fiscal sanity in Washington by requiring new mandatory spending and tax cuts to be offset so they do not add to the deficit. H. J. Res. 45, To Establish Statutory PAYGO Requirements and Permit Continued Financing of Government Operations, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 233 to 187 and now goes on to the President to be signed into law. Congressman Lipinski helped introduce similar statutory pay-as-you-go legislation that passed the House last year. “America is at risk of drowning in a sea of red ink,” Congressman Lipinski said. “While the economy has forced millions of Americans to cut back and make difficult decisions, Washington has gone on a borrowing spree to finance ill-conceived bank bailouts and a misguided stimulus plan that failed to do enough to help the middle class. This has exacerbated problems that began in the last decade. It’s time for Congress to return to the fiscal discipline that prevailed in the 1990s and led to a budget surplus. PAYGO was an important part of that discipline, so this bill is a good start to restoring fiscal sanity.” Under the measure, if at the end of a session of Congress new entitlement spending or tax cuts were found to have resulted in a net addition to the deficit, the Office of Management and Budget would impose spending cuts to restore balance. A similar law was in place during the 1990s and until 2002. Currently, the House and Senate have pay-as-you-go rules, but they are often waived. That is why giving the rules the force of law is necessary. In addition to his votes yesterday and in the past to fight the deficit, Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of the bipartisan SAFE Commission Act, H.R. 1557, which creates a 16-member panel that would be charged with submitting a plan to Congress for balancing long-term spending and revenues. If Congress failed to introduce its own such plan, the commission’s proposal would be automatically brought to the House floor for a vote. “In many ways, the recession from which America is struggling to emerge was the result of excessive and reckless borrowing in the private sector,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The fact is that debt is intoxicating. But sooner or later, the bill always comes due, and the consequences can be dire. If our government and our country are to avoid another day of reckoning, we must start to live within our means. This bill is a good first step in that direction.” (February 5, 2010) ###
02.03.2010	With the Research and Science Education Subcommittee scheduled to conduct its first hearing of the year tomorrow, Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today laid out his plans for strengthening America’s economic competitiveness and creating jobs through the reauthorization of the National Science Foundation. Once completed, Lipinski’s NSF reauthorization bill will be incorporated into the reauthorization of the broader America COMPETES Act, which Chairman Lipinski strongly supports and which Science and Technology Committee Chairman Bart Gordon has made a top priority. Chairman Lipinski’s agenda for the NSF reauthorization includes increasing investment in research that will enhance the manufacturing sector’s productivity and innovation; bolstering support for high-risk/high-reward or “transformative” research, possibly through innovation inducement prizes; an examination of the state of our academic research infrastructure; improving technology transfer programs that help turn researchers’ discoveries into products, companies, and jobs; and expanding the nation’s high-tech workforce through better science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education. This last area will be the focus of Thursday’s subcommittee hearing on Strengthening Undergraduate and Graduate STEM Education. In November, Thomson Reuters analyzed 30 years worth of data from over 10,000 scientific journals, and reported that Chinacould surpass the United Statesas the world’s largest producer of scientific knowledge by 2020. Americamust improve STEM education in order to maintain its leadership. Chairman Lipinski approaches these issues as a former professor and the holder oftwo engineering degrees. “I became well aware of the importance of the NSF when I was a graduate student, and early in my career I received a research grant from the NSF,” Chairman Lipinski said. “I was originally drawn to the Science Committee in part because of its jurisdiction over the NSF, and when I became chair of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee in this Congress, I was excited about having the opportunity to write the NSF reauthorization. “American workers remain the most skilled, innovative, and productive in the world,” Chairman Lipinski continued. “But we cannot afford to ignore the challenges we face from abroad. We must continue to make substantial and well-targeted investments in research and education that will allow Americato maintain its position at the forefront of the world economy for generations to come. In our hearings, we will look at the best ways to target funding, including the potential of reinstituting university infrastructure funding.” Despite recent job losses, manufacturing remains a linchpin of our economy, and a source of good-paying jobs for millions of Americans. But lower labor costs overseas, declining numbers of science and engineering graduates at home, and increasing innovation in foreign countries mean our manufacturing sector must continue to innovate to remain strong. Chairman Lipinski plans to support research into and deployment of technologies aimed at improving manufacturing processes, such as computational modeling that allows better designs and cheaper prototypes. He also plans to support materials science research that can lead to more efficient, longer-lasting, and lower-cost products. In October, Chairman Lipinski’s subcommittee held a hearing on methods for funding transformative research, defined as research with the potential to revolutionize existing fields and open up new avenues of inquiry and new growth industries. The National Academies’ 2005 report Rising Above the Gathering Storm, which laid the foundation for the America COMPETES Act, recommended that federal research agencies set aside a portion of their budgets for such high-risk, high-reward research. There is a growing consensus in the research community that the peer-review system has become too conservative in its funding decisions and even the brightest and most creative scientists and engineers are not bothering to submit more ambitious proposals. Chairman Lipinski looks forward to providing increased support for high-risk, high-payoff research. Ensuring that America’s STEM education system provides the country with the skilled high-tech workers needed to compete in a globalized economy is a top priority for Chairman Lipinski. The Research and Science Education Subcommittee has held numerous hearings on STEM education over the last year, and Chairman Lipinski is working to improve STEM education at all levels. Tomorrow’s subcommittee hearing will address improving instruction for undergraduate and graduate students in STEM disciplines by drawing on the latest pedagogical research; expanding support for young, innovative graduate-level researchers; increasing the number of students in STEM fields to meet demand and fill positions that will soon be left vacant by a wave of retirements; and the role that the NSF can play in instigating and supporting reform efforts in higher education, including through research. “I am looking forward to reauthorizing the National Science Foundation and the rest of the COMPETES Act, which is essential to ensuring that America is equipped to face the challenges of the 21st Century and to maintain its position as the world’s leading source of innovation,” Chairman Lipinski said. “Science and Technology Committee Chairman Bart Gordon has rightly made reauthorization of the America COMPETES Act a key priority for the committee, and I look forward to working with him on this extraordinarily important endeavor.” (February 3, 2010) ###
01.29.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement Wednesday regarding $1.2 billion in federal money that Illinois will receive to develop high-speed rail and improve service on local commuter train lines: “With this infusion of funding, high-speed rail in Illinois is off to a flying start. I pushed for this money over many months, including in conversations with Federal Railroad Administrator Joseph Szabo, and when I brought U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood out to Chicago in August for a tour highlighting the potential of high-speed rail. The projects receiving funding will pave the way for high-speed trains, create jobs, and produce improvements to existing rail service that benefit passengers. In my district, the Englewood Flyover – which I visited with Secretary LaHood – will help eliminate conflicts between Metra trains on the Rock Island line and freight and Amtrak trains, and eventually benefit the Heritage Corridor and the Southwest Service and BNSF Railway commuter lines. This flyover has long been listed as part of the CREATE rail modernization project, which I have strongly supported and for which I previously helped obtain $100 million in federal funding and which also received $300 million in the state capital bill with my support. It should be noted that the funding being announced tomorrow is not the only money available for high-speed rail in Illinois -- there is $50 billion for high-speed rail in the transportation reauthorization bill, which I have been pushing to pass as the only Chicago-area member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. From alleviating highway and airport congestion, to reducing pollution and energy consumption, to creating jobs and advancing economic development, to providing travelers with more options, high-speed rail holds great potential for Illinois.” (January 29, 2010) ###
01.29.2010	Southwest News-Herald January 29, 2010 By Congressman Dan Lipinski For the last year, while Washington spent much time absorbed with other issues, I have been arguing that job creation should be our number one priority. Now that the massive health care bill has stalled, Congress should work on taking smaller, measured steps to improve our health care system, and heed my call to focus on putting Americans back to work and making the economy work for the middle class. My position regarding health care reform has not changed: reform is needed, but it must be done right. Unfortunately, Congress has not produced a bill that I, or a majority of my colleagues, can support. I had hoped the Senate bill would improve on the House bill, and that legislation combining the best of both plans could be brought to a vote. Unfortunately, in many ways the Senate bill was worse than the House measure. It provided taxpayer funding for abortion, included an excessive excise tax on insurance plans, gave some states special treatment, and was tarnished by backroom deals with drug companies, hospitals, doctors, and others. This does not mean that we should do nothing on health care. Health care costs are too high and continue to soar, and insurance coverage is difficult or impossible to afford for many middle-class people. We need to alter incentives that increase spending rather than improve health outcomes, increase competition and transparency to drive down costs and help consumers make better choices, help those who are sick or cannot afford insurance, and close the Medicare donut hole and lower prescription drug costs for seniors. In addition, I will continue pushing for bills I introduced to provide hospital price transparency and hold the drug and health insurance industries accountable by eliminating their tax breaks for advertising and promotion. But right now my top priority is job creation, as it has been for the past year. As I have stated repeatedly, the best way to quickly create jobs is to pass a six-year, $500 billion transportation bill. Not only will this bill create millions of jobs, it will make vital and long-lasting improvements to our roads, railways, and public transportation. These improvements will enhance safety, shorten commutes and shipping times, reduce fuel consumption and pollution, and help grow the economy for years to come. Unlike the stimulus bill, which I did not vote for, this bill is not a one-time, short-term measure. Every four to six years, Congress passes a transportation bill to invest in the nation’s infrastructure. The last such transportation bill expired in October, which means the new bill is overdue. A great deal of work has already gone into writing the new bill and it is ready to move forward. As I focus on job creation, I will also continue working to prevent the financial industry from causing another economic catastrophe. More than a year after Wall Street was humbled by the financial crisis, it plainly has not learned humility. Pay at the top banks is expected to be even higher for 2009 than for the record-setting year of 2007. It seems Wall Street’s guiding philosophy remains, “Heads we win, tails the taxpayers lose.” Having voted against the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, I believe we must act now to rein in the financial industry. I am cosponsoring a bill to impose a 50 percent tax on bonuses over $50,000 at bailed-out banks, have voted for stronger financial oversight and regulation, and strongly support measures to force the biggest banks to pay back every penny the taxpayers are owed. Middle-class Americans want to believe that the system works for them – that if they work hard and play by the rules, they can live comfortably, raise their family, and retire with security. Now more than ever, we need to make sure that it does. ###
01.26.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), House Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Jerry Costello (IL-12), and the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce hosted a forum Tuesday to discuss ongoing efforts to expand capacity, enhance safety, and reduce delays, pollution, and noise at O'Hare and Midway airports under the Next Generation Air Transportation System project. NextGen will transform America's air traffic control system from the ground-based radar of the past 60 years to a safer, more efficient satellite-based system. "We've got GPS devices in our cars, but our aircraft still rely on radar technology that dates back to World War II," Congressman Lipinski said. "Moving to a system that takes advantage of the latest satellite technology will cut down on delays while saving fuel, increasing safety, and reducing noise in airport communities – something critically important around Midway Airport. It will also ensure that Chicago's airports continue to serve as economic engines and an important source of jobs for our region. As a member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, I'm going to be working with Chairman Costello to make sure that NextGen fulfills its promise and delivers real benefits both to Chicagoland and the nation." The number of passengers on U.S. airlines is expected to increase from 757 million in 2008 to 1 billion by 2021, and delays already cost an estimated $9.4 billion annually. Improvements under NextGen will enable O'Hare and Midway to cut down on delays while handling their share of traffic growth, maintaining Chicago's position as a leading global passenger and air freight hub. Together, the two airports create $45 billion in economic activity and support 540,000 jobs. At the forum, Dr. Michael Romanowski, Director of FAA's NextGen Implementation and Integration Office, provided a packed house of aviation, business, and labor leaders with an overview of NextGen and an update on progress toward deploying cost-saving technologies that will improve efficiency and safety both in the skies over Chicago and on the ground in the coming years. These technologies include systems that will vastly increase pilots' access to essential weather and flight traffic information and help aircraft to fly shorter routes, reduce descent times and therefore noise around airports, save fuel, and eliminate conflicts between Midway and O'Hare that cause delays. "I don't know of anybody that doesn't support NextGen," Chairman Costello said. "Modernizing our aviation system to meet future demand is something we simply must do. Congressman Lipinski is a great advocate for air passengers and for O'Hare and Midway, and I'm looking forward to continuing to work with him on my subcommittee to move NextGen forward and improve air travel nationwide." (January 26, 2010) ###
01.25.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that a long-awaited railroad quiet zone will take effect on Jan. 28, preventing trains from sounding their horns at crossings on Canadian National Railway’s Chicago Central & Pacific line in Riverside, North Riverside, and Berwyn. The quiet zone is the direct result of Congressman Lipinski’s efforts and would not have happened without him. He broke the stalemate that had previously prevented implementation of a quiet zone by working with Canadian National and the three municipalities to develop a plan acceptable to all parties. “For as long as anyone can remember, the people who live along these tracks have had to put up with blaring train horns at all hours,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Starting later this month, they’ll finally get the relief they’ve been waiting for. I want to thank Canadian National and the leaders of Riverside, North Riverside, and Berwyn for diligently working together over a period of several years to get this project completed and improve the quality of life for local residents.” The quiet zone will cover nine rail crossings. While the Federal Railroad Administration requires locomotives to sound their horns at public highway-rail grade crossings, communities that meet specific safety criteria can establish quiet zones that ban the use of train horns at crossings except in emergencies. In this case, safety upgrades necessary to establish the zone included reconstructed barrier medians, new signage, and the addition of constant warning time circuitry. Although the quiet zone takes effect Jan. 28, it is important to note that past experience indicates a brief adjustment period of roughly a week or so may be needed to achieve full compliance by train operators. “For the neighborhoods along this rail line, this project will bring something that is both simple and irreplaceable: peace and quiet,” Berwyn Mayor Robert Lovero said. “It was Congressman Lipinski’s determination and ability to bring everyone together that finally made this quiet zone a reality. On behalf of the residents of Berwyn, I want to thank him for all his hard work.” “My predecessor, former Mayor Richard Scheck, said it best: silence is golden,” North Riverside Mayor Kenneth Krochmal said. “While I’m the one in the mayor’s office today, this was his battle. The credit for this quiet zone belongs to him and to Congressman Lipinski, whose involvement made all the difference. I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for pushing this through. The residents of North Riverside are truly indebted to him.” “This quiet zone is very important to my residents,” Riverside Mayor Michael Gorman said. “It will yield a much-anticipated benefit to the Riverside residents in the CN corridor and to the entire Village. Since the project was announced by Congressman Lipinski, residents have continually asked me when it will take effect. I am pleased to say: The time has arrived.” “As someone who grew up less than one hundred yards from railroad tracks, I’m more than familiar with the hassles rail traffic can bring in the form of blocked crossings, noisy idling trains, and horns that wake people in the middle of the night,” Congressman Lipinski added. “That’s why I am so pleased to have made this quiet zone a reality, and that’s why I will continue to work to make sure that the scores of trains that pass through the Third District each day don’t inconvenience or annoy local residents any more than is absolutely unavoidable.” (January 25, 2010) ###
01.22.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement: “I have stated that I cannot vote for the Senate health care bill. Now it appears clear that neither the House nor the Senate bills, or any health care bill of similar magnitude, will be passed this year. Therefore, Democratic leaders should turn the primary focus of Congress to job creation – as I have been calling for over the last year – while continuing to work on passing components of health care reform that will begin fixing the system so that it works better for all Americans. “I have long recognized the need to reform our health care system. The first bill I introduced in Congress was to require transparency in pricing by hospitals to help drive down health care costs. Skyrocketing health care costs threaten the budgets of individuals, families, businesses, and the government, and the current economic climate has only increased this impact. This is even more true for those with health conditions that are costly to treat. For most in the middle class, rising costs mean more struggles to make ends meet, but for some, rising costs mean they cannot afford any coverage and face disastrous financial consequences. “Last year, I set out my goals for comprehensive health care reform: lowering overall health care costs and making health insurance coverage more affordable and accessible, without compromising the quality of care or adding to the swollen deficits of our country or our state. When H.R. 3200 was introduced in the House last summer, I said that it had significant flaws, including the facts that it cost too much, added to the deficit, included federal funding for abortion, did not do enough to reform our delivery system, and did not do enough to lower health care costs. For months, I fought for changes to the bill, and when H.R. 3962 was introduced in October, it was a better bill – although still flawed. I fought Speaker Pelosi and other Democratic leaders on the abortion funding issue, and was one of the authors of the Stupak amendment, which eliminated abortion funding from the bill. I would not have voted for any bill that changed the long-established policy of not providing taxpayer funds for abortion. “When H.R. 3962 came to the floor, I decided to vote for it, saying: ‘Today’s vote is only one step in the legislative process, and I will continue to work to improve the measure. If this bill does not improve when it comes back from the Senate, I will vote against it.’ “Unfortunately, the Senate did not pass better legislation. In fact, in some cases the Senate bill was worse than the House bill. It not only provides taxpayer money for the purchase of insurance that covers abortion, in direct contradiction of the long-established Hyde Amendment, it also allows taxpayer money to pay directly for abortion in federal community health centers funded in the bill. The Senate bill includes questionable funding sources such as an excessive excise tax on insurance plans. The bill was also tarnished by backroom deals with drug companies, hospitals, doctors, and others, in addition to providing special treatment for certain states. For all of these reasons and more, I could not vote for the Senate bill. “Finally, the proposed cuts to Medicare worried me, because while I know that there is waste to cut in Medicare, I was not confident that these cuts would not impact the quality of care being received by seniors. Over the past two months, the Chief Actuary of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Congressional Budget Office confirmed that my concerns about the Medicare cuts impacting care for seniors were valid. I would not vote for a bill that could reduce the care that seniors receive. “The pathway forward on health care reform is best charted by focusing on the components that are widely supported, and most directly address the primary challenges of affordability, quality, and access to coverage. We must get the skyrocketing cost of health care under control, especially by changing the incentives that drive providers to more spending instead of better health outcomes. We should work on ways to facilitate affordable insurance coverage for those who are sick or have chronic medical conditions. We should work to make sure that medical bills do not cause Americans to go bankrupt. We should increase the transparency of health care costs charged by hospitals, doctors, and other providers, and make available information on health care quality, so that people can be better-informed consumers in the health care system and drive down costs. We need to close the Medicare donut hole and reduce prescription drug costs for seniors, and assure seniors that we will not cut their Medicare benefits or take away access to their doctors. Competition can drive down insurance costs, and we must increase competition among health insurance companies, starting by eliminating their federal anti-trust protection. We should also reform health insurance to improve the way beneficiaries are treated. And we can work to expand coverage to those who cannot afford health insurance. “In regard to specific legislation, I will continue to promote health care reform bills that I introduced last year. In addition to the Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act (H.R. 2566), I also introduced legislation that would impact the tax breaks enjoyed by drug and insurance companies. H.R. 2917 would end the tax deduction that drug companies can claim for their advertising and promotional expenses, reducing a more than $4 billion drain on the Treasury and lessening the undue influence that drug ads and giveaways to doctors have on medical decisions. H.R. 3205, the Health Insurance Company Advertising Deduction Denial Act of 2009, would deny the tax break for advertising by health insurance companies. I will also continue my support for bills I have cosponsored such as H.R. 684, the Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act, and H.R. 3596, the Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act of 2009. “If we proceed incrementally, we have the opportunity to develop sound policy that people can better understand, and take important steps to improve our nation’s health care system. Congress must step back, reassess goals, and proceed in a more measured and transparent manner.” (January 22, 2010) ###
01.22.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) called on Metra to add weekday train service to the Heritage Corridor line, which currently offers three weekday round trips between Joliet and Chicago’s Union Station, with stops in Summit, Willow Springs, Lemont, and Lockport. “I write to request that Metra implement a much-needed increase in weekday commuter rail service along the Heritage Corridor,” Lipinski stated in a letter to Metra. “I strongly encourage Metra to coordinate with Canadian National Railway (CN) – the line’s right-of-way owner – to accomplish this important service enhancement. “Three round-trip trains per weekday are simply not enough to meet the current and future needs of residents along this corridor,” Congressman Lipinski continued. “Given recent infrastructure upgrades to the line in 2007 that significantly improved efficiency and could facilitate additional trains, increased Metra service will provide more flexibility for current commuters and facilitate new ridership, and will help meet the future needs of residents along the corridor.” Rail capacity along the Heritage Corridor was increased in 2007 by the Brighton Park Junction modernization project, which eliminated delays that often forced the 70 trains passing through the junction each day to wait 10 minutes or more for manual track clearance before proceeding. This reduces the potential for commuter and freight train conflicts, and provides the flexibility necessary to add Metra trains. Having already secured $100 million in federal funding and $300 million in state funding for the CREATE rail modernization program, Congressman Lipinski continues to seek additional money for the program, which will help untangle the region’s roads and its commuter and freight rail system, thereby shortening commutes and growing the economy. The Brighton Park Junction modernization was a “pre-CREATE” project, and is an example of the type of projects that are being funded under CREATE. Congressman Lipinski has worked successfully with Metra in the past. Last year, he was able to bring together Metra, Norfolk Southern Railway, and local municipal officials to reach an agreement that brought long-awaited weekend Metra service to the Southwest Service line, which stops in communities such as Ashburn, Wrightwood, Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, Palos Heights, and Palos Park. “The lack of trains on the Heritage Corridor means there’s a huge gap in Metra service in the area between the Southwest Service and BNSF Railway lines,” Congressman Lipinski said. “The result is that many of my constituents who live along the corridor and work downtown have to drive on overcrowded roads, waste time driving to distant Metra stations on other lines, or settle for another, less convenient public transportation option. For some people, it undoubtedly means they are simply cut off from jobs and educational opportunities in the city. It’s time we changed that. I look forward to continuing to partner with Metra to increase, enhance, and expand commuter rail service in Northeastern Illinois.” Click here to view the letter Congressman Lipinski sent to Metra. (January 22, 2010) ###
01.19.2010	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski's resolution, H. Res. 1008, honoring the contributions of Catholic schools and celebrating Catholic Schools Week passed the House of Representatives on a voice vote. Catholic Schools Week, which begins on the last Sunday in January, has been an annual event since 1974, and this year is being celebrated Jan. 31 through Feb. 6. Congressman Lipinski – who introduced the resolution for the fourth year in a row – paid tribute to the remarkable success of America's Catholic schools and the influence of his own Catholic school education in the following remarks, which he delivered to his colleagues on the House floor prior to the vote. "As a proud graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius College Prep, and as a strong supporter of Catholic education, I am honored to sponsor this resolution again this year. Since 1974, Catholic Schools Week has celebrated how Catholic schools have positively impacted our country and has recognized their outstanding contributions in providing a strong academic and moral education, as well as teaching the importance of responsibility to one's family and community. "The National Catholic Educational Association and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops have provided exemplary leadership in conceptualizing and organizing Catholic Schools Week. This year's theme is timeless in scope and universal in its values: "Catholic Schools – Dividends for Life – Faith, Knowledge, Discipline, Morals." "This theme perfectly embodies the call of America's Catholic schools – always emphasizing the necessity of a well-rounded educational experience. Nearly 95 percent of Catholic schools have a service program, and the average student completes approximately 80 hours of public service. My desire to serve was fostered by dedicated teachers throughout my formative years at Catholic schools. "Today, almost 2.2 million elementary and secondary students are enrolled in nearly 7,500 Catholic schools. The graduation rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent, and 97 percent of Catholic high school graduates go on to college or technical schools. In a country where worrying educational reports have sadly become an annual tradition, these statistics are truly remarkable, and should be greatly commended. "Catholic schools are known for embracing students from all walks of life and are highly effective at providing excellent educational opportunities for minority students and disadvantaged youth. Almost fifteen percent of students in Catholic schools are not Catholic. "In addition to producing well-educated students, Catholic schools save American taxpayers billions of dollars every year by lessening the number of students in already overburdened public schools. "I was born and raised and live in the Chicago Archdiocese, which still has one of the most successful school systems in the country. More than 96,000 students attend 258 schools. In my district alone, there are seven Catholic high schools and approximately 50 grammar schools, including one of the best in my home parish of St. John of the Cross in Western Springs. "In recognizing Catholic Schools Week, we pay a special tribute to dedicated teachers and administrators who sacrifice so much, in most cases working for less than they could earn elsewhere. When I come to the floor of this House, I still fondly remember Sister Diane, my Student Congress coach when I was in high school. Throughout the United States, millions of others have similar memories of their dedicated sisters, priests, and lay teachers who gave their hearts and souls to touch the lives of their students. "Madam Speaker, American Catholic schools deserve our praise, our support, and our gratitude. I would like to thank everyone who has cosponsored this resolution. And to share our congratulations and support for Catholic schools, I urge my colleagues to pass this resolution." Click here to read the text of the resolution. Click here to watch Congressman Lipinski's speech on YouTube. (Jan. 19, 2010) ###
01.18.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) visited Archer Pharmacy in Garfield Ridge on Saturday, where he discussed issues of concern to small, community businesses, especially independent pharmacies struggling to continue personal service to long-time customers in the neighborhood. “Archer Pharmacy is the kind of local small business that everyone wishes they had in their neighborhood,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Owner Jack Lazzara grew up in Garfield Ridge, and his pharmacy has been serving the residents of his community – where I grew up – for more than 20 years. He knows the people who walk through his door by name and does all he can to take care of them, especially seniors struggling with their medications. Small businesses like Archer Pharmacy are the backbone of our economy, and as part of the House Small Business Committee, I’ve been working to make sure we do everything we can to keep them strong and vital. While Wall Street banks are handing out egregious bonuses to the same people who helped wreck the economy, countless small business owners like Jack Lazzara continue to plug away, working to stay afloat and grow their business amid the toughest economy in a quarter-century.” Growing up, Lazzara was inspired to become a pharmacist by a local pharmacist who treated him and his family with a compassion he remembers to this day. When the recession’s impact started to be felt in his neighborhood, Lazzara responded by establishing a special low-cost prescription drug program to help those having trouble affording their medications. “When the downturn hit, we started seeing some of our customers lose their jobs and have trouble paying for their prescriptions,” Lazzara said. “I said, ‘This cannot happen to our people.’ Our people aren’t customers, they’re patients. When they come in that door, they become part of our family. I always feel a need to give back to the community I grew up in. I know Congressman Lipinski feels the same duty to his constituents, and it’s always a pleasure to get a chance to talk with him about the issues facing our country and the challenges that pharmacies like mine confront today. By making a personal visit to our pharmacy and seeing firsthand the legislative issues and insurance industry problems we are dealing with, Congressman Lipinski showed me how he makes time to be involved with even a small business like our pharmacy. I’m glad he’s in Washington working hard for all of us.” (January 18, 2010) ###
01.15.2010	Cosponsors Bill to Impose 50 percent Tax on Big Bonuses at Major Banks As big banks prepare to dole out seven- and eight-figure bonuses while millions of Americans struggle to find work, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) said today that Wall Street must repay in full the enormous debt it owes the American taxpayer. “Frankly, I’m appalled by the prospect of Wall Street bankers receiving bonuses bigger than the lifetime earnings of many hard-working Americans,” Congressman Lipinski said. “These are the same banks and the same people that helped cause the implosion of the financial system and the worst recession in generations. And these are the same kinds of bonuses that inspired the quest for short-term profits without regard to the consequences. It’s partly thanks to the taxpayers that these institutions still exist, the people working there still have jobs, and they’re back to booking enormous profits.” Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of The Wall Street Bonus Tax Act, H.R. 4426, which imposes a 50 percent tax on all bonus compensation over $50,000 at banks that were bailed out under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Revenue from the tax would fund a low-interest lending program for healthy small businesses that are having trouble obtaining loans due to the credit crisis. The Small Business Administration would administer the program. Today, The Wall Street Journal reported that pay at the top financial companies will be even higher for 2009 than for the record-setting year of 2007. Bloomberg News reports that analysts estimate Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and JPMorgan Chase’s investment bank may hand out $27.6 billion in bonuses. Average pay is expected to be $595,000 at Goldman Sachs, and we learned today the figure is $380,000 at JPMorgan Chase’s investment bank – with legions of bonuses expected to dwarf those figures. Even in 2008, more than 2,000 people at those two firms alone received bonuses of more than $1 million. Previously, Congressman Lipinski voted for bipartisan legislation to impose a 90 percent tax on bonuses for high earners at big banks receiving substantial bailout funds. Unfortunately, the bill died in the Senate. On Thursday, President Obama proposed a fee on the biggest banks that would be collected until it has covered the total amount of the taxpayers’ losses under the Wall Street bailout, which Congressman Lipinski repeatedly voted against and has called for ending. Only banks with more than $50 billion in assets would be affected, and the fee would be based on banks’ liabilities, helping to discourage banks from becoming overleveraged and endangering the financial system. Congressman Lipinski is looking forward to learning more about this proposal, and is pleased to see the White House finally taking steps to make taxpayers whole. If big banks can afford to pay out billions in bonuses, they can afford to pay what they owe taxpayers for throwing them a lifeline when they were at risk of going under. Some bailout recipients have repaid the taxpayer dollars that propped them up. But their debts go well beyond those sums because the loans helped them to survive the crisis and return to profitability now and in the future. In addition, big banks that require public assistance to weather financial storms of their own creation ought to face real consequences – otherwise they will have little incentive to avoid risky behavior. “Every sign is that Wall Street banks have returned to business as usual, issuing multi-million dollar bonuses that encourage dangerous risk-taking, in the belief that they are too big to fail,” Congressman Lipinski said. “That puts our entire economy at risk, and it’s the middle class that winds up paying with lost jobs when traders’ massive bets go sour. We need to make sure the bankers understand something the rest of the country knows all too well, but that they seem to have forgotten: there’s no such thing as a free lunch.” (January 15, 2010) ###
01.13.2010	Southwest News-Herald January 13, 2010 By Congressman Dan Lipinski As 2010 begins, most of us are hoping and praying it will be a much better year than 2009. Like you, I was saddened and sometimes outraged by what I saw happening last year. But amid the bailouts, bankruptcies, soaring unemployment and partisan acrimony, I remained dedicated to improving the everyday lives of the hard-working residents of the Third District. Throughout 2009, the economy was my top priority. I called for ending the loophole-ridden Wall Street bailout, which I voted against three times. When it became clear the stimulus bill would not do enough to create jobs, I did not vote for it. To protect American workers and taxpayers, I introduced the Buy American Improvement Act and helped add a strong Buy American provision to the jobs bill the House recently passed. In addition, I have pressed continuously for passage of a six-year, $500 billion transportation bill to create millions of jobs fixing our roads, rails and public transit. I continue to tell Washington that government should be working for middle-class Americans, not Wall Street barons. As the financial crisis sent shockwaves around the globe, I continued to get things done in the Third District. I worked with state leaders to secure $60 million in the state capital bill for the long-awaited Central Avenue Bypass and $300 million for the CREATE rail modernization program to unclog our local transportation system. I also obtained substantial federal funding for many other local projects, including a new library media center at St. Xavier University and police equipment for both Oak Lawn and Hickory Hills. I was able to get Metra to start offering weekend service on the Southwest Service line in March. Having recently succeeded in establishing a long-awaited railroad quiet zone elsewhere in the district, I am working to establish another quiet zone in Oak Lawn to prevent trains from sounding their horns at all hours. Health care reform remains a big, unresolved issue. I worked hard to play a leading role in improving the House version of the bill. I refused to back down from Democratic leaders and co-authored the amendment to prevent the use of taxpayer money to fund abortion. In addition, I helped add provisions to require hospitals to disclose the prices they charge; to eliminate the “doughnut hole” coverage gap in the Medicare prescription drug program; and to allow the government to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices for seniors on Medicare. However, I must emphasize that I still have significant concerns about the health care reform bill, and unless the final legislation is improved so that it does more to bring down skyrocketing health care costs and protect seniors on Medicare, I will not support it. And as I have said many times, the bill cannot add a penny to the deficit. This past year, I also continued to work on behalf of our nation’s veterans. Along with supporting increases in funding for the VA, I was able to persuade the Department of Defense to send investigators to a remote Pacific island to look for the missing remains of 564 brave service members killed in the World War II Battle of Tarawa. I continue to work on this important effort. Early in 2009, I was named chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee’s Research and Science Education Subcommittee. As a former educator and one of the few members of Congress trained as an engineer, I have focused on improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education to make sure America maintains its leadership in today’s ultra-competitive global economy. This has not been an easy time for most Americans, but our nation has never faltered in the face of adversity. I have no doubt that with hard work, courage and common sense, we can continue to build a better future. ###
01.08.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that the Populist Caucus - composed of 30 members of the U.S. House of Representatives - has endorsed legislation he authored to eliminate loopholes in existing Buy American laws and ensure that taxpayer money is used to purchase American-made products and support American jobs whenever possible. Congressman Lipinski introduced the Buy American Improvement Act of 2009, H.R. 4351, last month. "Today's endorsement is a boost for American workers and taxpayers, especially in light of continued job losses," Congressman Lipinski said. "We cannot afford to needlessly allow taxpayer dollars to wind up in the pockets of workers in foreign countries when that money could be helping to create and support desperately needed jobs here at home. I'm looking forward to working with all my colleagues in the Populist Caucus to move this bill forward." Concurrent with its introduction by Congressman Lipinski in the House of Representatives, Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin introduced the bill in the Senate as S. 2890. Congressman Lipinski's leadership on this issue has already resulted in the addition of a Buy American provision to the jobs legislation that recently passed the House. The Populist Caucus focuses on promoting the economic interests of middle-class Americans. It endorsed Congressman Lipinski's legislation as the government reported today that the economy lost 85,000 jobs in December and unemployment remains stuck at 10 percent. "As today's jobs numbers show, America's Main Street families are still struggling," said Rep. Bruce Braley of Iowa, chairman of the Populist Caucus. "The outsourcing of American jobs is a clear factor in continued unemployment. We have an obligation to create jobs in America and this legislation is essential to creating and retaining good-paying jobs for our middle-class families." Congressman Lipinski's bill makes numerous improvements to the Buy American Act of 1933 to stop taxpayer money from being spent on products made in China and other foreign countries. Among other things, it will prevent abuse of the process for waiving long-standing Buy American laws. And it does so in a balanced manner, while maintaining reasonable and carefully defined exceptions and complying with America's trade obligations. "We've had Buy American rules on the books for nearly eight decades - and for good reason," Congressman Lipinski said. "Americans' tax dollars ought to support American jobs. With this bill, I continue to fight for that simple, self-evident principle." (January, 8, 2010) ###
01.05.2010	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Illinois Department of Transportation Secretary Gary Hannig met with Federal Highway Administrator Victor Mendez at the future site of the Central Avenue Bypass in Bedford Park today to discuss the project's importance and opportunities for securing the funding necessary to see it through to completion. "I continue to focus on getting the Central Avenue Bypass built," Congressman Lipinski said. "As residents of the region and numerous local, state, and federal leaders know, this is a project of tremendous importance that will reduce congestion, create jobs, increase safety, and boost business development. I want to thank Administrator Mendez for taking the time to come out from Washington to learn more about the Bypass and meet with me and Secretary Hannig, whose continuing strong support for the Bypass I very much appreciate. We had a very productive meeting." "We understand the significance of the Central Avenue Bypass," Secretary Hannig said. "This is an area where congestion needs to be mitigated and economic development can be increased. We are pleased to continue the efforts with Congressman Lipinski and others to take further steps and get closer to seeing this project get done." U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, who supports building the Bypass, sent Administrator Mendez to learn more about the project as a follow-up to LaHood's site visit in August and his subsequent conversations with Congressman Lipinski. Administrator Mendez's visit is another sign that this is a project of regional and national importance. Central Avenue currently dead-ends in the vast rail yard just south of Midway Airport, leaving a three-mile stretch with no north-south access in the heart of the nation's transportation hub. The resulting traffic delays on Harlem Avenue and Cicero Avenue disrupt commerce on a local, regional, and national basis. Congressman Lipinski, Secretary Hannig, and IDOT engineers discussed the project in detail with Administrator Mendez at the Bypass site around Central Avenue and 69th Street during the course of an hour-long meeting Tuesday afternoon. In August, Secretary LaHood, Secretary Hannig, and Illinois House Speaker Mike Madigan joined Congressman Lipinski in announcing that the Illinois capital bill contains $60 million for the Central Avenue Bypass. Altogether, $170 million in state and federal funds has been set aside to facilitate completion of design, engineering, and pre-construction for the Bypass. Congressman Lipinski is seeking additional funding for the Bypass from the U.S. Department of Transportation and in the six-year federal transportation reauthorization bill that the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is working on. Congressman Lipinski is the only member from northeastern Illinois on the powerful committee. Lipinski has repeatedly called for quick passage of the transportation bill to fund vital infrastructure projects and create millions of jobs. (Jan. 5, 2010) ###
12.22.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) praised the decision by U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to issue a new rule that will force airlines to allow passengers on domestic flights to deboard if they are stuck on the tarmac for more than three hours. Congressman Lipinski has been leading the fight to crack down on airlines that strand flyers on the runway in unsanitary conditions. Earlier this year, he called on Congress to support legislation similar in effect to the rule announced Monday. “As a member of the Aviation Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I’ve been pushing hard for action to deal with extended tarmac delays, so I am very happy that Secretary LaHood has listened and taken this decisive action,” Congressman Lipinski said. “Over the years, we’ve heard countless nightmare stories of passengers stuck aboard aircraft on the runway amid increasingly trying conditions. Yet for all the furor these incidents have provoked, they continue to occur. The time to get tough with the airlines was overdue. Oftentimes the Congressional process just takes too long, so I applaud Secretary LaHood’s decision to take this action on the Executive Branch level. We need to look out for passengers.” Airlines will have to provide food, water, and working bathrooms to stranded passengers under the new rule. The penalty for airlines that violate the rule would be a fine of up to $27,500 per passenger. The rule, which takes effect in 120 days, includes reasonable but limited exceptions for safety and security. (December 22, 2009) ###
12.21.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) marked his recent success in obtaining $700,000 in federal funding for the renovation of historic Stone Avenue Station in La Grange at a check presentation ceremony Monday morning at the station. Congressman Lipinski was joined by La Grange Village President Elizabeth Asperger and officials from the West Suburban Chamber of Commerce, Metra, BNSF Railway, and the West Suburban Mass Transit District. "More than a century after it was built, Stone Avenue Station is an icon of La Grange and stands as a vivid reminder of the village's roots," Lipinski said. "But as one of Metra's busiest stations, serving about 1,000 people each day, it's showing its age. The money I have obtained will help restore the station to its original glory and ensure that it will continue to serve the community for generations to come." The money secured by Congressman Lipinski will be used to help complete the final project design and begin construction efforts. Congressman Lipinski secured $500,000 for the station project in a bill that passed the House of Representatives earlier this year, but was able to increase that amount by $200,000 in the final measure that became law last week. The estimated $3 million overhaul is expected to be completed in three phases costing roughly $1 million each. With the money secured by Congressman Lipinski, there is nearly $1.6 million available for the project. "The Village of La Grange grew up with the railroad and Stone Avenue Station is emblematic of our history," La Grange Village President Elizabeth Asperger said. "The residents of La Grange thank Congressman Lipinski for his efforts to assist us in renovating this important asset to our community. From transit to technology issues, Congressman Lipinski works hard for us." Designed by local architect John Tilton, built in 1901, and designated a local landmark by The La Grange Area Historical Society in 1971, the station has slowly deteriorated over time, making a comprehensive renovation necessary. The Village of La Grange, Metra, and BNSF Railway are collaborating on the project. The historically respectful rehabilitation is expected to include the addition of a new roof to the main building, renovation of the shelter on the outbound side, improvements to the "kiss and ride" circle drives, and ADA accessibility improvements. Other amenities being considered include additional bike racks, an outdoor seating patio, and a shelter on the south platform with heat lamps. (December 21, 2009) ###
12.16.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Senator Russ Feingold (WI) concurrently introduced the Buy American Improvement Act of 2009 in the House and the Senate, to eliminate loopholes in existing domestic sourcing laws and ensure that taxpayer money is used to purchase American-made products and support American jobs whenever possible. The bills, H.R. 4351 and S. 2890, were introduced as the House today passed H.R. 2847, which includes strong Buy American provisions. Congressman Lipinski and Senator Feingold have been leading the fight to add Buy American provisions to the jobs bill. Earlier this month, they led 20 other members in a letter to President Obama making the case that strong Buy American laws are a proven, cost effective way to create jobs. "For American taxpayer dollars to needlessly wind up in the pockets of workers in China and other foreign countries is indefensible in the best of times," Congressman Lipinski said. "During the worst recession in more than a quarter-century, it's a disgrace. Unfortunately, government bureaucrats continue to waive longstanding Buy American rules at the drop of a hat rather than look for American suppliers. This bill will help end that practice and prevent the government from purchasing foreign-made goods when there are competitive and readily available American alternatives." "The federal government needs to be held accountable on whether it is supporting hard-working Americans," Feingold said. "Our legislation will help close loopholes in current law that have allowed federal agencies to evade the Buy American Act. By purchasing American-made goods whenever possible, our federal government will send a simple message to American workers: We support you." The Buy American Improvement Act stops abuse of the waiver process, makes key reforms to level the playing field for American workers, and brings a new level of transparency to the implementation of the Buy American Act of 1933. And it does so in a balanced manner, while maintaining reasonable and carefully defined exceptions and complying with America's trade obligations. The bill is supported by the AFL-CIO, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and the United Steelworkers. The vast majority of Americans favor Buy American laws. Support for Buy American measures is also strong in Congress, as indicated by the Buy American provisions included in the jobs bill. Congressman Lipinski's and Senator Feingold's bill requires federal agencies to publicly publish all waiver requests, waiver decisions, and justifications for waivers granted. This will put pressure on the agencies to ensure their decisions can hold up to scrutiny, allow taxpayers to determine for themselves if waivers are legitimate, and give American businesses a fighting chance to receive federal contracts. In addition, agencies would be required to consider the short-term and long-term effect on domestic employment prior to issuing waivers. Domestic bidders would be given priority when their bids are substantially the same as those of foreign competitors. Before invoking a waiver, federal agencies would have to consider the total cost of goods obtained from foreign sources, inclusive of shipping costs and the impact on domestic employment. Establishing that no domestic alternative is "reasonably available" would entail a more thorough search and analysis. Federal agencies would also be prohibited from segmenting projects to avoid Buy American requirements. And products would have to be 75 percent American-made to be considered American-made. Currently, Buy American rules can be waived if it is determined that applying the rules would be "inconsistent with the public interest." Under Congressman Lipinski's and Senator Feingold's bill, the Government Accountability Office would have to provide recommendations to Congress for defining this term to make sure the rules are consistently and legitimately applied. "We've had Buy American rules on the books for nearly eight decades - and for good reason," Congressman Lipinski said. "Americans' tax dollars ought to support American jobs. With this bill, I continue to fight for that simple, self-evident principle." (December 16, 2009) ###
12.14.2009	At a press conference this morning in downtown Chicago, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and transportation, business, and labor leaders called on Congress to quickly pass a six-year $500 billion transportation reauthorization bill to create millions of urgently needed jobs and provide billions of dollars in funding for critical infrastructure projects in Illinois. Congressman Lipinski also urged Congress to avoid making the same mistake it made with the stimulus bill and ensure that the new jobs bill President Obama has called for and Congress could soon act on makes a substantial investment in our transportation infrastructure. “In these days of high controversy, three facts are clear: Americans need jobs, America’s transportation infrastructure needs repair, and investment in transportation infrastructure produces jobs,” said Lipinski, speaking at Ogilvie Transportation Center. “It’s time for Congress to stop delaying and pass the $500 billion transportation reauthorization to create jobs and make desperately needed repairs to our roads, public transit, and rails.” Congressman Lipinski was joined by a diverse group of attendees who support passage of a six-year transportation bill. They included CTA President Richard Rodriguez, Illinois Road and Transportation Builders Association President Mike Sturino, Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce President & CEO Jerry Roper, Metra Chairwoman Carole Doris, Chicago Building & Construction Trades President Tom Villanova, RTA Executive Director Steve Schlickman, Laborers District Council Director Mike Kleinik, CDOT Commissioner Tom Powers, Metra Executive Director Phil Pagano, President and CEO of the Illinois Chamber of Commerce Doug Whitley, CMAP Deputy Executive Director Don Kopec, and railroad officials, represented by Union Pacific Vice President Mike Payette. "The CTA still has a $6.8 billion unmet capital need in order to reach a state of good repair," CTA President Richard Rodriguez said. "With additional funding, CTA could accomplish vital projects such as track rehabilitation, electrical substation maintenance, bridge repair, and overhauls of rolling stock. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Lipinski and the Illinois Congressional delegation to create additional opportunities to maintain, grow, and modernize the CTA so we can provide the world class transportation system CTA customers deserve." "On behalf of the 100,000 members of the Chicago and Cook County Building Trades, I’d like to thank Congressman Lipinski for his initiative on this bill," Building & Construction Trades President Tom Villanova said. "Everybody’s talking about a jobs bill. This is jobs. The 24 trades I represent average 30 percent unemployment right now. This is a moral bill for us. We need this bill. We need the jobs." "Chicagoland’s reputation as America’s transportation hub is under siege," Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce President & CEO Jerry Roper said. "We will lose the competitive edge we have if we don’t pass a long-term, six-year transportation bill. This is the way we get our people to work." "In a very short five-year period, Congressman Lipinski has risen to being our leader in Congress on this issue," RTA Executive Director Steve Schlickman said. "His bringing us together today is indicative of that. The RTA, in partnership with the Chicago Transit Authority, Metra, and Pace, has already identified and prioritized the most pressing maintenance needs of the system, including replacing outdated buses and rail cars and repairing tracks to avoid slow zones. Passing a bill of this scope would provide the RTA and its service boards an opportunity to address these long overdue upgrades and improve our regional transit system and provide the best service possible." Every four to six years, Congress passes a major transportation bill to invest in our nation’s infrastructure and promote economic growth. The last such bill was passed in 2005 and expired October 1. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has been developing a new bill to replace the now-expired bill for more than two years, and passed the measure at the subcommittee level in June with Congressman Lipinski’s support. With unemployment officially at 10 percent, further delay cannot be tolerated. Every $1 billion in transportation spending supports or creates 35,000 jobs. But the need for jobs is only one reason we must pass the transportation bill. The fact is that both the Chicago area and the nation have tremendous transportation needs – from highway construction and road repair, to the expansion and revitalization of our underfunded transit systems. Chicago ranks second in terms of road congestion in the nation and congestion costs the region more than $11 billion annually. And according to the American Society of Civil Engineers, America would need to invest $1.4 trillion over the next five years just to bring the state of the nation’s transportation infrastructure up to a “good” condition. “While I firmly believe that it is the private sector that must ultimately carry America out of the recession, businesses remain reluctant or unable to add workers,” Lipinski said. “In the meantime, millions of families are suffering. That means there’s a place for targeted and effective government action that both provides millions of jobs in the near term and enhances economic growth for decades to come. That’s exactly what the transportation reauthorization will do.” Congressman Lipinski’s strong preference is to pass the reauthorization bill. But the House is also currently working on a separate jobs bill that could total $70 billion. Congressman Lipinski believes that if this bill is to truly create jobs, a substantial portion of that amount must be devoted to transportation. “I was a staunch advocate for sharply increasing the amount of transportation funding in the stimulus bill,” Lipinski said. “But Congress didn’t listen and the result was a bill that has not created nearly enough jobs. With unemployment in double digits, we can’t afford to make the same mistake we did with the stimulus, which devoted just 5 percent of its total spending to transportation. This is our chance to get the policy right and do what we should have done in the first place.” “Nothing is assured yet and much could still change as work continues on the jobs bill,” Lipinski continued. “But I do think Congress may be coming around to my point of view on the proven ability of transportation investments to create jobs. I will continue to fight to make sure that any jobs bill that passes the House contains enough money for transportation and creates the jobs Americans desperately need.” "Investment in capital infrastructure does in fact reduce operating expenses and it is a good way for us to keep our trains on time and give our customers the service they are demanding from us," said Metra Board of Directors Chairwoman Carole Doris. "Investment in infrastructure for public transportation, for public transit, is a job creation opportunity. We look forward to a secure, predictable funding source as we move forward." "If there’s not work on the street, nobody’s working and transportation continues to deteriorate," Illinois Road and Transportation Builders Association President Mike Sturino said. "We urge Congress and the White House to really get behind a true and significant jobs bill, something that works and makes sense. It’s been delayed and delayed. We’re getting frustrated. Our members are ready, willing, and able to get to work. I commend Congressman Lipinski for his leadership." (December 14, 2009) ###
12.11.2009	Seeking to protect Illinois jobs, taxpayers, commuters, and the environment, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) led a bipartisan group of eight Illinois Representatives in sending a letter to Metra today urging it to widen its search for a company to provide it with ten new passenger locomotives. Joining Lipinski in signing the letter were Representatives Mark Kirk, Bobby Rush, Donald Manzullo, Danny Davis, Bill Foster, Debbie Halvorson, and Judy Biggert. The letter asks Metra to reconsider its recent decision to seek only multiple-engine genset locomotives instead of diesel-electric locomotives, which form the backbone of the rail agency's fleet and which are produced locally by La Grange-based Electro-Motive Diesel Inc., one of the world's largest locomotive companies. "Instead of unnecessarily limiting its options, Metra should open up the bidding process to producers of both types of locomotives, allowing it to make the best choice for taxpayers, commuters, the environment, and Illinois workers," Congressman Lipinski said. "Otherwise, Metra will be limiting competition and increasing the possibility that it will be forced to pay more for less. Opening up the bidding process is a matter of simple fairness and basic common sense." Metra's fleet currently consists of 163 locomotives powered by engines made by Electro-Motive Diesel, which has 1,600 salaried and union employees at its La Grange headquarters. Diesel-electric passenger locomotives have earned a strong reputation for performance, reliability, and fuel efficiency, and have become the backbone of the North American passenger and commuter rail fleet. They load quickly, thereby improving schedule time, and are environmentally friendly, emitting low levels of NOx, diesel particulates, and greenhouse gases. Multiple-engine genset locomotives are typically limited to performing rail yard and switching operations. Metra originally issued a Request for Proposals for ten diesel-electric locomotives. It then canceled that RFP and announced its intention to issue a new RFP for ten multiple-engine genset locomotives. "Metra's employees are highly familiar with the operations and maintenance of diesel-electric locomotives," the letter states. "For this reason and others, the Commuter Rail Labor Association supports the purchase of diesel-electric locomotives. Given all the facts, we strongly urge Metra to include both diesel-electric passenger locomotives and multiple-engine genset locomotives in the new RFP for ten passenger locomotives." Click here to view a copy of Congressman Lipinski's letter to Metra. (December 11, 2009) ###
12.10.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced his success in obtaining $3.65 million for nine local public safety, transportation, education, health, and technology projects under legislation that passed the House of Representatives today. These worthy projects were awarded funding at Congressman Lipinski's request and as a direct result of his working over many months to ensure they received priority treatment. "I'm very pleased to be bringing home this funding, which will benefit everyone from young kids who need somewhere to go after school to commuters who ride Metra to seniors who call 9-1-1 for emergency medical care," Congressman Lipinski said. "Since the first day I took office, I have been focused on getting things done for the people of the Third District. As this latest round of funding shows, I continue to produce concrete results. All told, I have obtained $160 million in federal money for local projects since 2005." Recipients include the municipalities of La Grange, Oak Lawn, La Grange Park, and Hickory Hills; the Valentine Boys & Girls Club of Bridgeport; Saint Xavier University; the Chicago Transit Authority; Metra; and the Illinois Science and Technology Coalition. "The Saint Xavier University community is grateful to Congressman Lipinski for his dynamic leadership and commitment to higher education, as demonstrated by his efforts to secure federal funding for our Stump Library renovation project," said Angela Durante, Ph.D., Interim President and Provost of Saint Xavier, which received $750,000 for new technology for its library. "The state-of-the-art technological improvements made possible by this funding will ensure that the Stump Library will continue to be a great benefit to Saint Xavier students and a valuable resource to the wider community." "We're very grateful for what the congressman has done for our community," said La Grange Park Village President Dr. Jim Discipio, whose community received $75,000 for police equipment that will improve communications with other public safety agencies. "With the economic times being the way they are, to have the Congressman work as hard and diligently as he does is something we should all be thankful for." "The Valentine Boys & Girls Club is very appreciative of Congressman Lipinski's continued support in securing funding for our organization," said Jeffrey Sadowski, regional director for the Boys & Girls Clubs of Chicago. "He recognizes the work that we do on a daily basis that essentially keeps kids off the street during the time when they are most vulnerable - after school. With the help of Congressman Lipinski, we are able to provide programs and services that are mission-driven. Thank you, Congressman Lipinski." "The Village of Oak Lawn is pleased to have received this funding, which will help provide our first responders with the technology they need to keep our residents safe in case of emergency," said Mayor Dave Heilmann, whose community received $100,000 for equipment to allow emergency personnel to view safety-camera video from within their vehicles. "I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for all his efforts on our behalf." "Now more than ever, my constituents need someone who can stand up for their interests in Washington and deliver vital assistance," Congressman Lipinski said. "I continue to fight every day to make certain that the federal government helps the hard-working residents of the Third District." The following projects will receive funding thanks to Congressman Lipinski: Saint Xavier University: $750,000 for an array of information technology designed to enhance student learning. Much of the new technology will be located in the new Robert and Mary Rita Stump Library. The money will help pay for a new media center that will stimulate innovation and aid in the development of new applications of technology to teaching; an information commons to support research, library reference services, and instruction; a mobile computer lab that will convert regular classrooms into temporary computer labs; and an online communications system that will provide students with live Web casts, on-demand materials and lectures, distance learning programs, and other tools that will expand the university's reach. Equipment in the new media center will be used to develop digital literacy programs for students and the community at large. La Grange: $700,000 to renovate the Stone Avenue Metra station, which serves an average of nearly 1,000 commuters daily. The Village of La Grange, Metra, and BNSF Railway are collaborating on the project, which includes a careful and historically respectful rehabilitation of the structure, accessibility upgrades, and the addition of a "kiss and ride" area along with improved bicycle facilities. In addition, La Grange will receive $100,000 for a new generation of 9-1-1 call center technology that will allow for the display and answering of calls received in a variety of formats, including text messages and streaming video. The system will also utilize digital mapping to precisely pinpoint the location of a caller. Oak Lawn: $100,000 for equipment to allow first responders to view safety-camera video from emergency vehicles. This will allow for improved assessment of developing situations, faster emergency responses, and enhanced crime prevention. Cameras are currently in place in Oak Lawn schools, the train station, parking garage, and key intersections. La Grange Park: $75,000 for police equipment that will improve communications with other public safety agencies in cases requiring joint action. The equipment includes in-car video cameras that can stream to the Cook County Emergency Operations Center, in-car radios with extra channels, interoperable hand-held radios, and associated computer servers. Hickory Hills: $125,000 for the police department to replace outdated computers, communications equipment, and back-up power supply equipment. Technological improvements to 9-1-1 equipment will enhance the ability of first responders from multiple agencies to coordinate efforts and establish vital radio communications. Valentine Boys & Girls Club: $150,000 for afterschool programs to combat youth obesity and promote healthy lifestyles. The club will use the money to cover expenses necessary to create a daily fitness regime during afterschool hours for youths between the ages of 6 and 18. Among the club's recreational offerings will be swim classes, game-room activities, instruction in strength and cardiovascular training, and sports such as basketball, volleyball, football, and floor hockey. In addition, healthy nutrition will be taught in a series of workshops. Chicago Transit Authority: $1.5 million for preliminary work on the Circle Line, which will run in an arc west of the Loop, connecting all existing CTA lines as it stretches from the Orange Line near Ashland Avenue on the South Side to the existing Pink Line Cermak Branch near 18th Street and on to the North and Clybourn area on the North Side. A total of $43.8 million has now been earmarked for this multi-billion dollar project. Illinois Science and Technology Coalition: $150,000 to help the Illinois Science and Technology Coalition to establish the Illinois Nanotechnology Collaborative, which aims to increase commercial applications resulting from nanotechnology research, much of which is financed by the federal government. The INC will develop specific strategies to make it easier for small businesses to share infrastructure and reduce start-up costs, and to access Illinois' deep nanotechnology research capabilities. This will in turn provide a greater return on federal investments. (December 10, 2009) ###
12.03.2009	As President Obama held his jobs summit today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Senator Russ Feingold (WI) led 22 members of Congress in calling on the President to include strong “Buy American” provisions in any future jobs legislation. In addition, Congressman Lipinski announced that he intends to introduce a bill to close gaping loopholes that have drastically reduced the effectiveness of existing “Buy American” laws. “The amount of taxpayer money that is needlessly spent on foreign-made products when there are domestically manufactured alternatives is nothing short of outrageous,” Congressman Lipinski said. “At a time of double-digit unemployment, Americans’ tax dollars should be supporting workers right here at home, not halfway around the globe. Unfortunately, government agencies continue to make a mockery of the ‘Buy American’ laws that are on the books by taking advantage of an opaque waiver process in order to purchase foreign goods when there are domestic options. We need to make sure that any jobs legislation contains strong, effective ‘Buy American’ rules and to make sure that the rules already in place work as intended to create jobs in this country.” Signing the letter to the President along with Congressman Lipinski and Senator Feingold were Senator Sherrod Brown and 19 House members. Congressman Lipinski did not vote for the stimulus bill, but he led an effort that was joined by more than 50 of his colleagues to include a “Buy American” provision in the legislation. But the language was not as strong as what Lipinski specifically sought in his amendment, and the waiver process has generated many complaints that significant American taxpayer dollars spent in the stimulus have gone overseas. Now, with the House gearing up to pass jobs legislation, “Buy American” supporters are working together once again. Today, Lipinski and Representatives Chris Murphy, Betty Sutton, Donna Edwards, and Mark Schauer met to discuss the need for strong “Buy American” legislation. “We need to do all we can to promote fiscally responsible federal policies that support the creation of American jobs to help get the unemployed and underemployed back to work,” the letter to the President states. “To maximize the benefit of such policies for American workers, we urge you to include strong and effective ‘Buy American’ and domestic sourcing requirements in any legislative proposals developed by your administration in response to this jobs forum. In addition to including ‘Buy American’ or other domestic sourcing provisions in any jobs bill, we also encourage you to ensure these provisions are drafted in such a manner to ensure they are effective and cannot be easily circumvented. While there should be a reasonable waiver process included in domestic sourcing provisions to address situations where American-made goods may not be available or are prohibitively expensive, there are so many loopholes in the Buy American Act that much of the law’s strength has been diluted.” “With unemployment near double digits in Wisconsin and already over ten percent nationally, the federal government should be doing everything it can to support American workers,” Feingold said. “I commend President Obama for focusing on getting Americans back to work with this jobs summit. As his administration works with business leaders to develop proposals to lower unemployment, it should include ‘Buy American’ provisions to encourage the purchase of American-made goods and support American jobs.” The bill Congressman Lipinski plans to introduce would close loopholes in the waiver process through rigorous disclosure and reporting provisions, and strengthen underlying domestic procurement requirements. Among other things, it would require that all waiver requests be publicly posted with a reasonable period for public comment, that all waiver grants be justified in public postings, that annual public reports be issued on waivers granted, and that the true cost of foreign products that are illegally dumped be considered in assessing bids. It would also define “American-made” as being at least 75 percent American-made. Congressman Lipinski’s top priority is creating American jobs. Earlier this week, he called on President Obama to support quick passage of a half-trillion dollar, six-year surface transportation reauthorization bill that will make badly needed improvements to the nation’s infrastructure and create and sustain millions of jobs. The prior authorization ended September 30 and was temporarily extended to December 18, leaving America’s transportation needs significantly underfunded. Although the last multi-year transportation bill expired two months ago, the White House, with support from the Senate, has aimed to delay a new bill for 18 months, passing up a clear opportunity to lower unemployment and undertake critical projects. “We need to act immediately to help the millions of Americans who are out of work,” Congressman Lipinski said. “We can start by making sure that the government stops spending taxpayer money on goods manufactured in China and other foreign nations when it could spend the money at home.” Click here to view the letter sent to the President. (December 3, 2009) ###
11.30.2009	As the White House prepares for Thursday's "jobs summit," Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today called on President Obama to end the delay and support quick passage of a half-trillion dollar, six-year surface transportation reauthorization bill that will make badly needed improvements to the nation's infrastructure and create and sustain millions of jobs. The prior authorization ended September 30 and was temporarily extended to December 18, leaving America's transportation needs significantly underfunded. "There has never been a better time to invest in our ailing transportation infrastructure, yet the Administration has asked for an 18-month temporary extension of the prior authorization," Congressman Lipinski said. "Boosting transportation funding right now offers both the short-term benefit of quickly creating jobs and the long-term benefit of enhancing the fast, safe, and efficient transportation of people and goods in our nation. With unemployment at 10.2 percent and the last transportation bill having expired two months ago, we need to pass a new bill as soon as possible. As President Obama solicits ideas for creating jobs this week, this is one he should not ignore." As a member of the Highway and Transit Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Lipinski voted in June to pass a carefully crafted six-year, $500 billion transportation reauthorization bill. Although the last such bill expired two months ago, the Senate, with support from the White House, has aimed to delay a new bill for 18 months, passing up a clear opportunity to lower unemployment and undertake critical projects. In the House, there has been growing talk of passing a two-year transportation bill that would be an important first step toward addressing the nation's infrastructure and job-creation needs. Congressman Lipinski supports passage of such a bill only if timely passage of the larger bill proves impossible, and only as a temporary, stop-gap measure. "Many Americans are facing dire economic circumstances for themselves and their families," Congressman Lipinski states in his letter to the President. "American workers are in need of jobs and American industries confront a very difficult climate for job creation. Transportation is a vital component of our nation's economy, and short-term and long-term improvements to our highway, transit, and rail systems will contribute significantly to job creation and our economic recovery. Now is the critical time to proceed with approving a multi-year transportation bill. As you conduct your 'jobs summit' this week, I hope that you will join me in supporting the speedy consideration of a significant investment in our transportation infrastructure. Investment in our infrastructure is an investment in jobs." For almost two years, Congressman Lipinski has been pressing for increased investment in America's infrastructure. Every $1 billion spent on transportation creates and supports 35,000 good-paying American jobs. In early 2008, after the Minnesota bridge tragedy and the start of the recession, Lipinski called for a new initiative to fund a range of infrastructure projects and create jobs. In February, he succeeded in adding $3 billion for public transit to the House version of the stimulus bill, which was woefully lacking in transportation funding. When that money and more transportation infrastructure funding was later stripped from the bill, he did not support the final bill. "Here in Illinois, the need for jobs and the need for transportation funding could not be more evident," Congressman Lipinski said. "The time to pass a transportation bill to put people to work and to fix our roads, highways, bridges, railways, and public transit is now." Click here to view a copy of Congressman Lipinski's letter to President Obama. (November 30, 2009) ###
11.29.2009	Southwest News-Herald November 24, 2009 By Congressman Dan Lipinski Now that the health care bill has moved from the House to the Senate, House leaders and the Obama Administration are talking about turning to job creation. I have never lost my focus on jobs because nothing is more important right now than reviving the economy and getting people back to work. One way we can put millions to work is to invest in desperately needed improvements to our roads, highways, bridges, railways, and public transit. I have been pushing for such investments for a long time. In early 2008, five months after the tragic Minnesota bridge collapse, I called for a federal program to fix our infrastructure and create jobs. But President Bush wanted to issue rebate checks instead. Though better than nothing, the rebates did not do nearly enough and unemployment kept rising. Earlier this year, I insisted on adding $3 billion for public transit to the House version of the stimulus bill, which was woefully lacking in transportation funding. When the Senate removed that and more transportation money from the $787 billion bill, I could not support it. The bill passed and unemployment kept rising. Every four to six years, Congress passes a bill to fund transportation infrastructure projects. The last bill passed in 2005 and was due to expire on October 1 of this year. With my colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I began working on a six-year, $500 billion bill. In June, we passed this bill in the Highway and Transit Subcommittee. But the White House and the Senate decided they want to delay this bill 18 months. This makes no sense. Nothing creates as many jobs as quickly as spending on transportation projects. Every $1 billion spent on transportation creates and supports 47,500 good-paying American jobs. And whether it's repaving pothole-ridden neighborhood streets, extending transit lines, eliminating blocked rail crossings, or building the Central Avenue Bypass, money for transportation has a long-lasting impact on our economy. It's an investment in the future. In all too many cases, it's also an investment that is long overdue. Earlier this year, the American Society of Civil Engineers reported that the nation's infrastructure needs $2.2 trillion in repairs and upgrades. But if you drive or take public transportation in and around Chicago, you don't need a study to tell you how much has to be done. Thankfully, there are signs today in Washington that leaders finally understand that Americans need jobs and increasing transportation funding is the right thing to do. There is now talk of quickly passing a two-year transportation bill. This measure would not be a substitute for the six-year transportation legislation we need, and I will continue to press for passage of this long-term bill. Among other things, the six-year bill includes new strategies and policies unlikely to be included in the two-year bill, and it would better enable planning of large projects. But given the intransigence of the White House and the Senate, even a two-year bill would be a victory, and a step toward addressing the unmet transportation needs of the Chicago region and the country as a whole. It's important to remember that keeping our infrastructure in good repair is especially important here in Chicago, the nation's transportation hub. A clogged highway is as detrimental to our local economy as a clogged artery is to the health of an individual. If we want to maintain our leading position, our region needs to fight to ensure America addresses its immense infrastructure challenges in a timely fashion. As northeastern Illinois' only member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I'm committed to leading that fight and to passing a transportation bill that will immediately put people back to work. As always, I invite your opinions and views. Write me at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL 60638 or call me at 312-886-0481 or 866-822-5701. Or visit www.lipinski.house.gov. (November 24, 2009) ###
11.20.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) denounced the pharmaceutical industry for sharply increasing drug prices in the middle of a recession and renewed his call to eliminate the industry's tax break for advertising and promotion, which would save taxpayers $50 billion or more over 10 years. Congressman Lipinski also supports asking the Government Accountability Office to quickly investigate recent drug pricing trends and to report to Congress on drug prices on a regular basis in the future. "Studies publicized this week in The New York Times indicate that while other industries are slashing prices, pharmaceutical companies have raised wholesale prices for brand-name drugs by about 9 percent in the last year, the biggest increase in 17 years," Congressman Lipinski said. "These increases will tack an estimated $10 billion onto the nation's prescription drug bill. It is just more proof that the drug industry needs to be reined in, not invited into backrooms to cut deals. As the industry is well aware, millions of people, including many seniors, will have little option other than to pay these prices because their health depends on it." The deal that the White House and the Senate cut with the drug industry as part of health care reform was supposed to result in savings of $80 billion over 10 years. The House health care reform bill is tougher on the industry, extracting an estimated $140 billion in savings over the same period. But the industry's price hikes raise the question of whether even the more stringent House legislation goes far enough in forcing the drug makers to contribute to legislation that will provide them with 30 million new customers due to the expanded availability of insurance. Earlier this year, Congressman Lipinski introduced H.R. 2917, which would eliminate the tax break for pharmaceutical companies' advertising and promotional expenses. The pharmaceutical industry neither needs nor deserves to have its marketing expenditures subsidized by taxpayers. Drug companies have more than enough incentive to advertise. Tax break or no tax break, the dollars they spend touting their medications to the public and cozying up to physicians return to them many times over in the form of increased prescriptions and sales. "Pharmaceutical companies may claim that they have to raise prices in order to fund research, but anyone who follows the industry knows there is reason to doubt that," Congressman Lipinski said. "The drug industry's profit margin of nearly 20 percent puts it near the very top of the rankings. One recent study estimated that pharmaceutical companies spend more on promotion than they do on research and development. If they want to spend more on research, they can start by spending less money flooding the airwaves with deceptive advertising and attempting to co-opt doctors." "It's time to stop coddling the drug industry," Congressman Lipinski added. "It's gotten so used to getting its way in Washington that it doesn't even think twice about increasing its profits on the backs of some of our most vulnerable citizens in the midst of a recession." (November 20, 2009) ###
11.19.2009	Reinforces Pledge that He Will Not Support Health Care Reform that Adds to the Deficit Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) took a stand for fiscal responsibility and against new health care spending that adds to America's deficit, voting against the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act, which does nothing to offset its budget-busting price tag of up to $300 billion over the next ten years, and does nothing to institute needed reforms. The bill, H.R. 3961, passed the House of Representatives 243-183. "My vote was part of my commitment not to support the larger health care reform bill unless it is fully paid for and does not add to the deficit," Congressman Lipinski said. "The only reason the physician payment legislation was not included in the health care reform bill was that it would have increased the pressure on Congress to find a way to pay for it. Making it into a separate measure was nothing but inside-the-Beltway sleight-of-hand. "My vote does not mean I favor allowing drastic cuts in Medicare reimbursements for doctors if this will hurt care for seniors. We must protect seniors' access to doctors, but we need to pay for it. "There are those that may try to misrepresent what this vote means. That is unfortunate. But the people I represent make difficult decisions every day based on what they can and cannot afford. They expect me to do the same thing in Washington, not to sweep problems under the rug." Congressman Lipinski has said repeatedly that he will not support the health care reform bill if it increases America's deficit. Last fiscal year's deficit of $1.4 trillion was the largest relative to the size of the economy in more than 60 years. (November 19, 2009) ###
11.15.2009	2010 Water Resources Development Act Requests De-authorize a portion of the navigation project, Chicago Harbor, Illinois, not needed for commercial navigation. · Develop project mgt. plan & engage in restoration activities & recreational dev. in tributaries, branches, canals & watersheds of Chicago area rivers. · Conduct flood mitigation study of the Des Plaines River in Cook County, including but not limited to Riverside, IL and Willow Springs, IL. · Conduct project for flood damage reduction: · along Navajo Creek. · along the West Branch of Mill Creek. · in the vicinity of the 71st Street Ditch. · in Wolfe Wildlife Refuge Lake/along Stony Creek. · Reconstruction of shoreline protection structures along flood-prone sites on Chicago's lakefront. (November 15, 2009) ###
11.12.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will hold a Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, November 14 to hear from his constituents and take their questions about federal issues. "With unemployment still rising and the economy struggling to emerge from recession, I continue to listen extremely closely to the residents of the Third District and to fight for their interests in Washington," Lipinski said. "I know these are difficult times for many families, and I’m looking forward to this opportunity to discuss the work I’m doing with the people I represent. Right now, job one is job creation – we need to help businesses start hiring so we can bring down unemployment and kick-start economic growth. Prior to the start of the meeting, my staff will be available to answer questions and provide assistance with issues involving the federal government." Town Hall Meeting Saturday, November 14 10 a.m. Oak Lawn Community High School Gymnasium 9400 Southwest Highway, Oak Lawn Congressional staff will be available starting one hour before the meeting to assist constituents with Medicare, Social Security, Veterans’ Benefits, Immigration, the Postal Service, and other federal matters. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. (November 12, 2009) ###
11.11.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) honored America's veterans for their courage and paid tribute to their sacrifices at Veterans Day ceremonies in Stickney and at Brookfield Zoo on Wednesday. "Every year, on the anniversary of the armistice that ended World War I, we offer our veterans our heartfelt thanks for the valiant service they have rendered in defending our nation," Congressman Lipinski said. "But we cannot remember our veterans each November 11, only to soon forget all they have endured in order to preserve our freedom and make America the greatest country on earth. Just as we benefit each day from their vigilance and their bravery, we must make sure that each day they are treated with the profound respect they have earned. As the appalling and senseless murder of 13 people at Fort Hood showed, every member of our Armed Forces has placed themselves in harm's way, whether they are serving here on American soil or overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan. Today, we pray for them and their families, for all those who served before them, and for all those who are protecting us even now, wherever they may be. Our gratitude knows no bounds." At Brookfield Zoo, Congressman Lipinski was joined at Roosevelt Fountain by Dr. Stuart Strahl, president and CEO of the Chicago Zoological Society, and VFW Post 2580's Honor Guard, as a memorial wreath was placed by the fountain by veterans who are zoo employees. Also on hand for the ceremony were representatives of the organization Operation Stars and Stripes, which creates care packages for members of the Armed Forces. At Stickney's veterans' memorial, Congressman Lipinski spoke along with Sen. Louis Viverito, Stickney Mayor Daniel O'Reilly, and Patrick Quinn, a veteran of the Korean War from Burbank who delivered a moving speech on the more than two-and-a-half years he spent as a POW. The Stickney Police Department contributed a 21-gun salute. "I look forward to continuing to work on behalf of the veterans of the Third District," Congressman Lipinski said. "Knowing what they have done for America inspires me to make sure America provides them with all that they deserve." (November 11, 2009) ###
11.07.2009	Having led the successful fight to force a vote later today on an amendment prohibiting taxpayer funding for elective abortion in the health care bill, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) said he looks forward to passage of the amendment as a major victory for the large majority of Americans who believe taxpayers should not be forced to fund abortion. "The opportunity to vote on this amendment is a victory for which I fought hard, and which could not have been achieved without real leadership and determination," Congressman Lipinski said. "For more than 30 years, the Hyde Amendment has prohibited federal funding of elective abortions. The amendment to the health care bill that will be offered today adds the Hyde restrictions to the bill, keeping in place the status quo that has long governed federal funding of abortion. We cannot permit the health bill to allow public funding of elective abortion or of health plans that would pay to cover elective abortion." The Hyde Amendment clearly states that no federal funds 'shall be expended for any abortion' and that no federal funds 'shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage of abortion.' As recently as July 24 of this year, the House passed H.R. 3293 - the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill - containing this language. However, the House health care reform bill, H.R. 3962, does not contain the Hyde Amendment at present and thus would permit federal funding for health plans that provide abortion, in direct contradiction of long-standing federal policy. Furthermore, the bill's public health insurance option, which is established with $2 billion in federal start-up funds, would also be permitted to offer abortion coverage. "It was not easy for us to get to this point," Congressman Lipinski said. "But by standing firm, I was able to ensure that at the very least there will be an up or down vote on adding Hyde Amendment language to the bill. Given that a large majority of Americans oppose taxpayer funding of abortion, I cannot help but believe that the House will do the right thing and pass the Stupak-Pitts-Kaptur-Ellsworth-Dahlkemper-Lipinski-Smith Amendment." (November 7, 2009) ###
11.07.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement regarding passage by the House of Representatives of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act: "After a painstaking review of its details, and after I succeeded in adding to it restrictions that will prevent taxpayer funding of abortion, I voted today to move the health care reform bill forward. Although it contains a number of critical reforms that I strongly support - including a ban on discrimination by insurers against people with preexisting conditions - this bill is far from perfect in my view, and it will not become law as it is currently drafted. But today's vote is only one step in the legislative process, and I will continue to work to improve the measure. If this bill does not improve when it comes back from the Senate, I will vote against it. Back in February, I made the same pledge on the stimulus bill, and when the Senate failed to return a better bill I did not vote for it. We need health care reform, but it must be the right reform. However, if we had defeated this bill today, we would have lost our opportunity to enact reforms we all know are needed. "I greatly appreciate the thousands of constituents who have contacted me and my office to share their opinion on health care reform. I recognize that people feel very strongly about this issue, as health care is something that affects everyone. Having read the bill and spent hundreds of hours studying the health care system and speaking with experts, I realize that this bill has its shortcomings, but I believe it represents an honest approach to addressing many of the challenges people face under the current system. Too many people are uninsured and health care absorbs too much of working family budgets. "I am proud to report that as a result of my leadership, the bill includes a strong amendment that will prevent taxpayer funding of elective abortion. I could not support a bill that allowed such funding. For more than three decades, Congress has approved the Hyde Amendment on an annual basis to prohibit federal funding of abortion. But up until today, it was not part of this bill. The amendment that I co-authored and succeeded in adding reflects the Hyde restrictions and constitutes a continuation of the status quo with regard to public funding of abortion in this country. Guiding this amendment to approval was no easy task, but I was able to ensure its inclusion by refusing to bow to pressure on a point of profound importance to me and to the large majority of Americans who believe taxpayers should not be forced to fund abortion. (Click here to view the floor video.) "As I have said repeatedly, reform must lower the soaring cost of care and make insurance coverage more affordable and accessible for the hard-working, middle-class residents of the Third District. And it must do so without negatively impacting the quality of care people receive and without adding to the already swollen deficits of our country or our State. The Congressional Budget Office says that this bill is fully paid for, but we must make sure that the final bill that comes back from the Senate holds to my commitment that we do not add a penny to the deficit in the long term. If it does add to the deficit, I will oppose it. "While H.R. 3962 has its problems, it contains a number of provisions that I strongly support and pushed to make sure were included. Together they form a solid foundation on which to build. The bill would prohibit discrimination by insurers based on preexisting conditions - something that, as a diabetic, I know is critical. It would require hospitals to publicly report the prices they charge - an important reform that would help increase competition among hospitals and lower prices. I have fought for such a measure since I introduced my first bill in Congress, The Hospital Price Disclosure Act, which I introduced once again this year as H.R. 2566. The reform bill also eliminates the coverage gap, known as the "doughnut hole," in the Medicare prescription drug program, and allows the government to negotiate prescription drug prices for Medicare recipients for the first time, helping to lower drug prices for seniors. I have repeatedly supported allowing such negotiation and urged it be made part of the bill. In addition, as I advocated, the bill now takes steps to end the health insurance industry's exemption from federal anti-trust laws, which could help to increase competition. "I am also pleased that the House did not adopt the Senate's proposal to levy an excise tax on middle-class health care plans, which would have aggravated the cost of care to millions of Americans or resulted in fewer benefits in their plans. I also had strong reservations about a public option health care plan based on Medicare rates; this would have hurt seniors' access to doctors. I am glad that my efforts helped result in the use of negotiated rates in the public option. "I know that the health care status quo is unacceptable. Soaring premium costs have put health insurance coverage out of reach for millions of Americans. For millions of others, it seems that every time they look up, health insurance constitutes a greater share of their paycheck, leaving them with less money to spend on other necessities. Across the Third District, from Berwyn to Oak Lawn, Bridgeport to Countryside, and Mount Greenwood to La Grange, there are hard-working people who are one illness away from bankruptcy. People facing the extraordinary challenges of battling cancer, heart disease, and many other diseases must not be made to worry about balancing their care against their checkbooks. "In order to change that, this bill will have to do more to tackle the biggest problem with our health care system: the soaring cost of care. Increases in the underlying cost of care - not just insurance industry greed -lie behind skyrocketing premiums. Since 1980, overall spending on health care has risen on average at almost twice the rate of inflation, and per capita health care spending is nearly double what it was 10 years ago. Our system encourages doctors to prescribe too much, test too much, and treat too much. As a result, insurance is prohibitively expensive, with premiums having more than doubled in just a decade. If we do not lower the underlying cost of care, we will have failed to produce the fundamental health reform America needs. "There are additional ways that we can reform our health care system so that it works for the well-being of all Americans, not just the profits of the health care industry. Reining in the cost of health care is not an impossible goal. On the contrary, it is an unavoidable task. But it will require taking on special interests and implementing genuine, systematic change. I look forward to continuing to fight for that change, and to making sure high-quality health care is affordable for individuals, families, businesses, and taxpayers. Passing this bill today is a step towards that goal." (November 7, 2009) ###
11.05.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today released the following statement regarding his efforts to remove federal funding for elective abortion from the House health care reform bill, H.R. 3962. "For more than 30 years, the Hyde Amendment has prohibited federal funding of elective abortions. The Hyde Amendment clearly states that no federal funds 'shall be expended for any abortion' and that no federal funds 'shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage of abortion.' As recently as July 24 of this year, the House passed H.R. 3293 - the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill - containing this language. However, the House health care reform bill, H.R. 3962, does not contain the Hyde Amendment and thus would permit federal funding for health plans that provide abortion, in direct contradiction of long-standing federal policy. Furthermore, the bill's public health insurance option, which is established with $2 billion in federal start-up funds, would also be permitted to offer abortion coverage. "There have been reports of a compromise to address concerns about abortion in the House health care bill. Unfortunately, this proposal does not in any way reflect the intent of the Hyde Amendment and would merely codify accounting segregations intended to provide the appearance of excluding federal funds from abortion services. For me, many of my colleagues, and a significant majority of other Americans, this is not sufficient to address our fundamental concerns about federal funding for abortion. "In short, the House health care reform bill constitutes a radical departure from the long-standing and consistent policy embodied in the Hyde Amendment. Though it takes a different approach, the proposed compromise also represents a sharp break with past practice. Along with Rep. Bart Stupak and many other members of Congress, I strongly oppose efforts to cast aside the established prohibition on federal funding for abortion and for health plans that provide abortion coverage, and will continue to seek changes to the bill that will reflect our concerns." (November 5, 2009) ###
11.03.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski's (IL-03) Veterans Fair will offer local veterans assistance with a host of issues, including: military personnel and medical records; veterans' claims and benefits; medals earned but not received; VA Hospital billing; placement in VA homes; GI Bill information; nominations for Service Academies; and requesting a U.S. Capitol flag. Congressional staff, the Illinois and U.S. Departments of Veterans Affairs, and other organizations will answer questions and provide help. Congressman Lipinski's Veterans Fair will be held Monday, Nov. 9, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. at the Des Plaines Valley VFW Post 6863, 7256 West 63rd St., Summit, IL. For more information, please call 312-886-0481. (November 3, 2009) ###
10.29.2009	Today, H.R. 3962, the House health care reform bill, was released to Congress and the public. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will be studying the bill intently and consulting with independent experts to determine if it accomplishes his key goals for reform: lowering overall health care costs and making health insurance coverage more affordable and accessible, without compromising the quality of care or adding to the swollen deficits of our country or our state. The cost of the bill has not yet been determined by the Congressional Budget Office, and Congressman Lipinski looks forward to examining CBO's analysis once it becomes available. Over the last four months, Congressman Lipinski has devoted more than 200 hours to studying various reform proposals and searching for ways to improve our health care system so that it works for the well-being of all Americans, not just for the profits of the health-care industry. He believes it is his duty to understand the House bill, which now totals nearly 2,000 pages, and its impact on his constituents before determining whether to support it. He will not serve as a rubber stamp simply because this bill goes by the name of health care reform. Congressman Lipinski remains committed to supporting fiscally sustainable reforms that lower costs for middle-class Americans and ensure all Americans receive high quality care. Click here to view H.R. 3962. Click here to view a section by section analysis of H.R. 3962. To learn more about Congressman Lipinski’s work on health care reform, click here. (October 29, 2009) ###
10.28.2009	Southwest News-Herald October 28, 2009 By Congressman Dan Lipinski As the debate over health care reform continues, my goals remain the same: to reform the health insurance industry to facilitate quality coverage for all Americans, and to rein in the surging cost of health care, without compromising the quality of care and without adding a dime to the deficit. I am not willing to vote for a bill just because it is labeled "health care reform." Perhaps it is because of my training as an engineer, my career as a teacher, or the education I received from the nuns at St. Sym's, but I believe I have a duty to understand legislation and its impact before I decide whether to support it. This does not always make me popular among those who expect me to be a rubber stamp or to vote for something simply because it is well-intentioned. Since I was first elected to Congress, I have discovered it is remarkably difficult to find objective analysis of legislation. I was reminded of this when the health insurance lobby recently employed dubious assumptions to claim that premiums would soar under one of the health care reform bills. By now, everyone has learned to be highly skeptical of whatever the health insurers say. Maybe only the drug companies are considered less trustworthy. But just because the insurers' study was flawed doesn't mean there isn't reason to be concerned. The Congressional Budget Office, whose purpose is to analyze the impact of legislation, has been unable to clearly estimate what will happen to premiums under the reform bills. What the CBO has told us about the original House bill, H.R. 3200, is that it will not reduce skyrocketing health care costs. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services' Office of the Actuary came to the same conclusion last week. There seems to be a consensus among most independent experts that there are ways that we can reform payments to doctors, hospitals, drug companies, and other providers that will save money and improve the quality of care for patients. However, most of these experts believe that H.R. 3200 does not do this. There could be several explanations for this. But a number of recent stories about secret meetings at the White House involving the pharmaceutical lobby, the American Medical Association, and other lobbying groups raise concerns for me. In fact, the drug companies have said they will spend at least $150 million on advertisements promoting health care reform. One ad the industry sponsored features President Obama speaking directly into the camera promoting reform. It is widely reported that the drug companies cut a deal to ensure their hefty profits would not get hit hard by reform. If the current legislation doesn't rein in the cost of health care, how will it lower ever-increasing health insurance premiums? Certainly some health insurance reforms could help. Last week, I joined a number of my colleagues in calling for the repeal of the health insurance industry's exemption from federal anti-trust laws. This would give the federal government the power to investigate and prosecute health insurers for anti-competitive practices that raise premiums. Although it could help, it will not solve the entire problem. As long as the underlying cost of medical care rises quickly, premiums will follow suit. By the time you read this, a new version of the House health care reform bill may have been introduced. Democratic leaders in the House have told me that this new legislation will address my concerns that the original bill would not lower health care costs for most Third District residents and would add significantly to the federal deficit. I look forward to receiving this new bill and studying it. In order to win my support, it will have to provide real health care reform for the Third District and for all Americans. Write me at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL 60638, or call me at (312) 886-0481 or (866) 822-5701. ###
10.27.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) today congratulated locally based Nalco Co. and Argonne National Laboratory on winning $2.25 million in federal funding for cutting-edge research that could help eliminate CO2 emissions from coal-fired power plants, a major contributor to global climate change. Congressman Lipinski supported Nalco's application in a letter to the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy, a new agency within the U.S. Department of Energy that he helped to create. Nalco employs 145 people at its Bedford Park plant in the Third District and more at its Naperville headquarters. "Energy is an area where we need to think big and invest in breakthrough technologies and new industries with the potential to drive economic growth and job creation for years to come," Lipinski said. "The challenges we face in reducing our dependence on foreign oil, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and becoming more energy efficient are too great to do otherwise. Nalco's work with Argonne National Laboratory demonstrates the kind of vision that we need. I am pleased that I was able to play a part in helping to secure funding for this project, which will also help support local jobs." ARPA-E announced its first grants Monday. The agency will support transformative energy research using the research model established by the Department of Defense's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, which helped lead to breakthroughs like GPS, stealth technology, body armor, and the Internet. Congressman Lipinski serves on the House Science and Technology Committee, and was on the conference committee for the America COMPETES Act, which created the ARPA-E program. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, he recently held a hearing exploring the best ways to support high-risk, high-reward scientific research. Currently, it is possible to capture CO2 and turn it into a liquid that can then be sequestered underground. But doing so is expensive and consumes a huge amount of energy. Nalco proposes using water to collect CO2 emissions from power plants and then employing a novel electrochemical process to quickly and cheaply separate the CO2 from the water. Existing technology could then be used to liquefy the separated CO2 so that it could be sequestered underground, or to ready it for another use. One potential environmentally friendly use would be growing algae to produce biofuels. CO2 naturally dissolves in water, which is how soda is carbonated. But while we've all been unpleasantly surprised to find the soda in our refrigerator has gone flat overnight, CO2 actually releases from water too slowly for a rapid, continuous industrial process. Nalco's technology would solve that problem by using a special type of wafer, a small amount of electricity, and a natural enzyme to speed up release. The enzyme used is the same enzyme our bodies use to remove CO2 from our cells when we exhale. In a sense, Nalco would mimic the process living cells use to manage CO2. "Finding ways to use coal more efficiently while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions will allow the United States to better use one of its key domestic energy sources," said Dr. Manian Ramesh, Nalco's Chief Technology Officer. "We want to thank the Department of Energy for this grant in support of our carbon capture project. This is a tremendous opportunity to expand our existing partnership with the outstanding talent at Argonne National Laboratory to develop this exciting new technology for providing cleaner energy. Open innovation that allows collaboration among business, government, and academia is the best path forward to develop new, sustainable technologies." "As one of the few members of Congress trained as an engineer, I'm keenly interested in supporting advanced technical research with the potential to yield lasting real-world benefits," Congressman Lipinski said. "Companies and countries around the world are racing to develop new energy technologies, and we need to make sure America is positioned to be the global leader in the field." (October 27, 2009) ###
10.27.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted today to make it easier for small businesses to obtain much-needed credit through the Small Business Administration. The Small Business Financing and Investment Act of 2009 (H.R. 3854) would help capital-starved small firms unlock their vast job-creating potential. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 389 to 32. Congressman Lipinski strongly supported H.R. 3854 as a member of the House Small Business Committee, voting for committee passage last week. "Across the country and across the Third District, small and medium-sized companies are struggling to survive," Congressman Lipinski said. "Despite its enormous price tag, the Wall Street bailout failed to do enough to increase bank lending, leaving many businesses without the capital they need to grow and thrive. The Small Business Financing and Investment Act is one way to make up for the inability or unwillingness of banks to lend to small businesses. Small businesses have long been an incredibly potent source of job creation and pillars for our communities, so we need to do everything we can to make sure they remain healthy." The bill would improve the SBA's capital access programs by removing institutional hurdles, raising the lending cap to $3 million for the popular 7(a) program, enhancing investment in early-stage small businesses in innovative industries, increasing borrowing authority for start-ups, and focusing on lending to manufacturers. In addition to working to improve SBA lending programs, Congressman Lipinski has been working to expand access to credit for small and medium-sized manufacturing firms, which have been hit particularly hard by the recession. He recently introduced the bipartisan BUILD Manufacturing Act (H.R. 2936), which would help manufacturers create jobs by providing access to credit through a loan guarantee program at no additional cost to taxpayers. "Manufacturing employed 13.5 million Americans in 2008 and was responsible for 13.6 percent of the United States' Gross Domestic Product in 2007," Congressman Lipinski said. "With unemployment in the sector reaching 11.9 percent, something must be done to reinvigorate this industry, which is critically important to our nation and to many communities in the Third District. The BUILD Manufacturing Act would help manufacturers up and down the supply chain to purchase new equipment, modernize facilities, expand production capacity, and hire more workers." Under the congressman's bill, loans to qualified manufacturers would be made with an emphasis on small and medium-sized businesses. Programmatic funding for loan guarantees has already been established under the Term Asset-Backed Loan Facility. The bill would provide for guarantees of between 60 and 70 percent for loans under $50 million. (October 27, 2009) ###
10.22.2009	Reform Could Increase Competition in the Insurance Industry and Lead to Lower Health Care Costs Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today joined 14 of his colleagues in the House in leading the push to add provisions to the health care reform bill that would repeal the health insurance industry's exemption from federal anti-trust laws. Eliminating this unique exemption and giving the Federal Trade Commission unambiguous authority to investigate anti-competitive practices would help to lower the cost of health insurance. "We need to find ways to make health care more affordable for hard-working Americans," said Lipinski, who together with his colleagues signed a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi about the issue. "Repealing the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempts the insurance industry from federal anti-trust laws, and giving the Federal Trade Commission the power to target anti-competitive behavior by insurers could help rein in skyrocketing health insurance premiums. We must do everything we can to make the health insurance market more competitive so that there is an incentive to lower costs for consumers." The insurance industry is virtually unique in being exempt from federal anti-trust laws that protect consumers from practices such as price-fixing. But there is no compelling justification for this loophole, and estimates of the amount that consumers could save in premium costs if McCarran-Ferguson were repealed run as high as $40 billion. Support for subjecting health insurers to federal anti-trust law is growing. On Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 3596, which would partially repeal the exemption for health insurers. Today, Speaker Pelosi said for the first time she plans to include a repeal of the exemption in health care reform legislation. But the letter to Speaker Pelosi calls for a more complete repeal of the exemption than H.R. 3596 contains, and also for specifically giving the FTC authority to go after offenders. Over the years, numerous experts and organizations have argued for making the insurance industry subject to anti-trust rules. Last week, Assistant Attorney General Christine A. Varney of the U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee about the many reasons to repeal McCarran-Ferguson. She pointed out that as long ago as 1977, a Justice Department study concluded the insurance industry did not need to be shielded from anti-trust rules. In 1979, The National Commission for the Review of Antitrust Laws and Procedures recommended replacing McCarran-Ferguson with much more narrowly drawn legislation. The American Bar Association has said much the same thing for two decades. "Competition is critical for markets to work efficiently for consumers," Lipinski said. "What we have in the health insurance industry - and in many ways health care in general - is a lack of competition driving up costs." Lipinski has also worked to lower health care costs for American families by increasing competition in other sectors of the health care industry. For example, he introduced H.R. 2566 to require hospitals to publicly disclose the prices they charge so that consumers can make informed choices, encouraging hospitals to charge lower prices. He has also called for health care reform legislation to include price transparency and quality of care information that would be available for other health care providers such as doctors and medical centers in order to increase competition in all health care sectors. Competition helps encourage better care at lower prices. Click here to view a copy of the letter to Speaker Pelosi regarding the repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act. (October 22, 2009) ###
10.21.2009	Changes to grant programs will help departments buy equipment, hire firefighters during tough times Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted today to provide more federal assistance for local fire departments to hire firefighters and purchase firefighting equipment. The Fire Grants Reauthorization Act of 2009, which Lipinski helped introduce, will help cash-strapped local governments hurt by the recession to continue to keep residents safe and avoid service cuts and delays in making critical purchases. The act passed the House Science and Technology Committee. "The most important duty of government is to provide for people's safety," Congressman Lipinski said. "But as their revenues dwindle due to the recession, local governments face tough choices. This bill reauthorizes and makes key improvements to two important firefighting grant programs to make sure the public's safety is not adversely impacted due to financial constraints owing to troubles in the broader economy." Congressman Lipinski has helped dozens of local fire departments obtain federal fire safety grants. In total, Third District fire departments have obtained $4.75 million in such grants since Lipinski was first elected. The bill makes beneficial changes to the Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants program. Lipinski strongly believes in the need to update both programs to make them more effective and has been pushing to move reauthorization of the fire grants act forward. The AFG program provides money to pay for equipment, vehicles, and training. The SAFER program provides money for hiring firefighters. The bill authorizes $1 billion for AFG and $1.194 billion for SAFER. Both are administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The bill directs more money to suburban and urban fire departments than in the past and gives priority to departments with larger populations and higher call volumes, giving departments in the Third District a better chance of winning grants. The bill lowers the local matching requirement for an AFG grant to 10 percent for all departments serving populations of more than 20,000. Previously, it was 20 percent for departments serving populations over 50,000. It also includes clearer provisions for hardship waivers for departments that can't meet the matching requirement, and sharply increases the maximum grant for large departments, including Chicago's. The SAFER program has been a five-year program requiring an escalating local match, with the local fire department responsible for paying 100 percent of the salaries of firefighters hired under the program in the fifth year. The new bill makes it a three-year program and provides for only a 20 percent local match each year, which will encourage more departments to take advantage of the program. In addition, it eliminates artificial limits on the amount of grant money available per firefighter. It also includes new hardship waivers for departments unable to meet the match requirement, as well as waivers for requirements that the money be used to hire additional firefighters rather than retain existing firefighters. The bill has strong bipartisan support and has been endorsed by the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, and the National Volunteer Fire Council. "I'm proud to have helped introduce the Fire Grants Reauthorization Act," Lipinski said. "I continue to work closely with local communities to bring home money that improves the safety of the residents of the Third District. Strengthening crucial fire safety grant programs is an important part of that effort." (October 21, 2009) ###
10.19.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) gathered local leaders last week to discuss their communities' needs and the help he can provide in obtaining federal funding - a particularly important subject now, as many local governments are struggling to pay for vital projects because of the recession. "My door is always open to local leaders, and I stand ready to work with them to improve the quality of life in every community in the Third District," Congressman Lipinski said. "Since I was elected, I've obtained $160 million for important local projects. These days, that kind of assistance is more critical than ever. The economy's woes mean that despite their best efforts many municipalities are having a tough time just covering day-to-day operating costs, leaving little money for road work, water and sewer work, land acquisition, environmental clean-up, and public safety equipment. Those are the sorts of infrastructure projects and purchases that I can help turn from an item on a wish list into a reality." Mayors and Village Presidents from 15 municipalities and several Chicago aldermen joined Congressman Lipinski on Monday for an update on what types of projects are eligible for federal funding, the application process, and requirements for matching local contributions. "I'm very pleased that Congressman Lipinski is working so closely with the municipalities in his district and explaining the process for getting funding," Justice Mayor Kris Wasowicz said. "He's doing a wonderful job. The results are visible." "We are continually thankful and impressed with the openness and willingness to listen of Congressman Lipinski," Bedford Park Village President David Brady said. "The information was very helpful, and in fact we've already started working on some projects after learning what funding is available." "Congressman Lipinski has been accessible and successful in delivering federal assistance to our city," Hickory Hills Mayor Mike Howley said. "Times are tough for local government at the moment, which makes the congressman's efforts all the more welcome." Among other things, Congressman Lipinski discussed the need for Congress to immediately pass a new transportation reauthorization bill, which is the main source of federal funding for roads, highways, bridges, and public transit - and which provides a tremendous amount of assistance for local municipalities' transportation projects. The White House wants to wait 18 months to pass a bill, but Lipinski believes fast action is needed. Lipinski secured $126 million for local projects in the last federal transportation bill. "Anyone who has spent time driving or on public transportation has experienced delays and frustration that make it clear just how badly we need new transportation funding," Lipinski said. "As the only Northeastern Illinois member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I'm pushing hard to move this bill through Congress so we can start taking care of business and put tens of thousands of people back to work in the Third District and throughout the country." Representatives of the following municipalities attended the meeting: Riverside, North Riverside, Merrionette Park, Bedford Park, Hickory Hills, Countryside, Chicago, Palos Hills, Justice, Chicago Ridge, Summit, Hometown, Bridgeview, Stickney, Western Springs, and Willow Springs. (October 19, 2009) ###
10.14.2009	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) celebrating 90 years of United States-Polish diplomatic relations and congratulating the Polish people on their role in advancing freedom and democracy around the world. Congressman Lipinski urged passage of House Resolution 266 on the House floor, noting Poland's successful struggle against communism, the leadership of figures such as Pope John Paul II, the strong ties of friendship between the United States and Poland, and the strong Polish presence in the Chicago area. (Click here to view a video of Congressman Lipinski's statement) "Thank you Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong support of H. Res. 266, celebrating 90 years of diplomatic relations between the United States and Poland, and recognizing Poland's critical role in advancing freedom and democracy across the globe. We must never forget Lech Walesa's leadership inside Poland and Pope John Paul II's leadership from outside Poland, which helped lead to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the collapse of the wall separating the East and West, and the freedom that that brought to so many hundreds of millions of people around the world. As a Polish-American, as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Poland, and as someone who represents part of the most Polish city outside of Poland, I am especially proud to sponsor this resolution. I would like to thank the gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. Smith, for working with me on this resolution and on other important issues. In addition to marking the 90th anniversary of U.S.-Poland diplomatic relations, this year also marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of communism in Poland, the 10th anniversary of Poland's accession to NATO, and the 5th anniversary of Poland's membership in the European Union. Ninety years ago, there were already 150,000 Polish immigrants in and around Chicago. The Polish American Association recently noted that following World War II, "Polish-Americans made up a large part of the countless families moving into Chicago suburbs, especially southwest suburbs such as Oak Lawn and Hickory Hills [and] western suburbs like Berwyn and Lyons." These are all areas I represent, and such communities are one reason our countries are so close. Poland's struggle against communism and its emergence as a free and democratic nation are a great chapter in the history of the 20th Century. In recent years, Poland has strongly supported the United States diplomatically and militarily, helping to combat global terrorism and contributing troops to the fight in Afghanistan and Iraq. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution and in conveying America's thanks to the Polish people. Poland has been one of our best friends and strongest allies. We must honor this relationship and make sure to continue it and work to strengthen it with great respect." Just last week, Congressman Lipinski helped pass a House resolution proclaiming Casimir Pulaski to be an honorary U.S. citizen posthumously, citing his renowned heroism in fighting on the side of the American colonists against the British in the American Revolutionary War. For more information, visit www.lipinski.house.gov. (October 14, 2009) ###
10.13.2009	Lipinski Calls for Independent Analysis, Citing His Continuing Concern that Proposed Bills Won't Rein In Costs Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today criticized the lobbying group America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP) for issuing a flawed analysis that concluded that the Senate Finance Committee's health care reform bill would result in a significant increase in insurance premiums. But Congressman Lipinski remains concerned that the reform proposals under discussion do not do nearly enough to drive down the surging cost of health care and thus will not result in lower premiums. "The biggest problem with our health care system is that costs are out of control," Lipinski said. "Now more than ever, people are struggling to pay for the care and coverage they need to stay healthy. While some faulty assumptions in AHIP's study raise further doubts about the integrity of the health insurance industry, the study highlights the need for an independent analysis that explains exactly what impact existing health insurance reform proposals would have on costs in general and insurance premiums in particular. The cure for our health care system should not be worse than the disease. Reform must bring costs back down to earth and make insurance coverage more affordable and accessible, without adding to America's already swollen deficit." Since he was first elected, Congressman Lipinski has made it a top priority to improve our health care system so it works for the well being of all Americans, not just for the profits of the health care industry. Congressman Lipinski has introduced a number of bills to reform the health care system and lower costs, and has continuously worked to improve the health care reform bills Congress is considering. Lipinski's Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act (H.R. 2566) requires hospitals to disclose the prices they charge for common procedures and medications. Making this information widely available to consumers would help drive down costs by increasing competition among providers. He also authored H.R. 2917 and H.R. 3205, which would abolish the tax breaks for advertising and promotion by pharmaceutical and health insurance companies, saving taxpayers at least $6.3 billion annually and eliminating an indefensible subsidy that rewards these industries for promotions that - in the case of drug companies - lead to unnecessary health care spending. Congressman Lipinski also helped introduce The Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act (H.R. 684), which would allow the government to negotiate for lower drug prices for Medicare recipients. "Certainly AHIP's flawed study serves to remind us that we need to change the way health insurers do business by preventing them from discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions and from dropping coverage for people who get seriously ill," Lipinski said. "It should also force everyone who believes reform is necessary, as I do, to make sure that the legislation heading toward a vote will work as advertised and tackle the biggest problem with our health care system today: the ever-increasing cost of care. Reform that only adds to costs, instead of lowering them, is no reform at all." (October 13, 2009) ###
10.09.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today congratulated the injured veterans who are participating in the Chicago Marathon on Sunday for their courage and service to their country and for setting an example of unceasing determination to the entire nation. "The bravery of these men and women can be seen not only in the wounds they received in the course of defending our freedom, but in their refusal to let those wounds slow them down," Lipinski said. "They remind us both of the extreme danger that our troops are facing every day, and the power to overcome tremendous adversity that lies within all of us. I wish all of them the best of luck in Sunday's race. I am sure it will be an experience they will not forget." The Achilles Freedom Team of Wounded Veterans consists mainly of veterans wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan and includes five members from Illinois. After learning that team members were in need of specialized transportation on the day of the race, Congressman Lipinski worked with Pace - which provides paratransit services to the disabled - to ensure the veterans received assistance. Pace and Pace Chairman of the Board Richard Kwasneski were more than happy to help, and the agency will provide transportation for about 40 people - the veterans, team organizers, and family and friends - to and from the race Sunday. The Achilles Freedom Team helps recently wounded veterans compete in marathons by providing motivation, training, and the opportunity to rebuild strength and endurance. Many members have suffered severe leg injuries and some use hand-crank wheelchairs provided by Achilles. Team members are competing in a half-dozen marathons this year. For more information, visit: http://www.achillestrackclub.org/freedom_team. (October 9, 2009) ###
10.08.2009	The final version of the defense authorization bill that passed the House of Representatives today includes an amendment written by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) that calls on the Department of Defense "to undertake all feasible efforts to recover, identify, and return" the missing remains of 564 brave U.S. service members killed in the WWII Battle of Tarawa. But even before passage of the bill, Lipinski's call for action resulted in the Department of Defense sending a team of investigators to Tarawa last month. "Though they lie buried on a distant island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, we cannot forget the courage and sacrifice of those who perished on the shores of Tarawa sixty-six years ago," Lipinski said. "We must do everything possible to see that their remains are recovered and their families are given a chance to return them to the nation in whose defense they died. I am glad that the Department of Defense has responded to the need for further investigation, and proud to have succeeded in focusing attention on the heroism of those who lost their lives on Tarawa. But our work is far from over, and I intend to continue to press to recover their remains." The vote in the House was 281-146. The Senate is expected to vote on the bill as early as next week. After the initial version of the defense authorization bill passed the House in June with Congressman Lipinski's amendment included, the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command sent an eight-person investigative team to Tarawa for a week in September. During the course of the mission, a total of six possible burial sites were located. The team also gathered data on infrastructure pertinent to the safety and impact of any future excavations. Skeletal remains and a small amount of material evidence were received as unilateral turnovers from a local museum and police. The possible burial sites are being evaluated by JPAC to determine future actions. Tarawa, located halfway between Australia and Hawaii, was the scene of one of the bloodiest battles of World War II. More than 1,100 American lives were lost in three days beginning on Nov. 20, 1943, as the 2nd Marine Division and part of the Army's 27th Infantry took the island in an amphibious assault, dislodging an entrenched force of 5,000 Japanese soldiers. Many bodies were buried in temporary graves while the battle raged. While some were disinterred and reinterred in the area by the Navy between 1943 and 1946, no detailed records of the locations have been found. In 1946 and 1947, the Army disinterred all known remains and returned them to Hawaii for identification and repatriation. Over the last three decades, the remains of several servicemen have been discovered by accident, as a result of construction projects. Recent privately funded research has shed new light on the location of unmarked graves, indicating successful recovery is still possible despite development on Tarawa, part of the independent Republic of Kiribati. Locally, 11th Ward Chicago Alderman James Balcer, a decorated Marine veteran of the Vietnam War, has also fought to focus attention on the missing remains on Tarawa, showing leadership on the issue by introducing a resolution that passed the Chicago City Council on a unanimous vote. "The Marines, soldiers, and sailors who lost their lives as they stormed the beaches of Tarawa under withering fire are true heroes," Lipinski said. "It is our solemn duty to see that they are afforded proper burials with all the honors that are their due." "I want to thank Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton for working with me to include my amendment in the bill, and I look forward to working with him to continue to address this issue in the future," Lipinski added. Congressman Lipinski also supports a broader provision in the defense authorization bill that directs the Secretary of Defense to implement a "coordinated, integrated, and fully resourced program" dedicated to the recovery of the remains of missing military personnel. The bill sets a goal of accounting for missing and unrecovered personnel, starting at 200 service members a year. In addition, and among the many ways in which it protects and benefits our service members, the bill provides needed equipment and training for our troops, including $10 billion for mine detection vehicles and anti-IED technology; gives service members a 3.4 percent raise; retroactively prohibits fee increases on TRICARE inpatient care for one year; expands TRICARE health coverage for reserve component members; increases oversight of military contractors to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse; and increases funding for non-proliferation programs to keep nuclear weapons out of the hands of terrorists. (October 8, 2009) ###
10.07.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass a resolution today in the House of Representatives proclaiming Casimir Pulaski to be an honorary U.S. citizen posthumously, citing his renowned heroism in fighting on the side of the American colonists against the British in the American Revolutionary War. Congressman Lipinski spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in favor of the resolution. (Click here to view video of Congressman Lipinski's floor speech) The text of his statement follows: "As a proud Polish-American, I rise today to honor the life and service of Casimir Pulaski and ask my colleagues to support the passage of H.J. Res. 26. Pulaski played an instrumental role and gave the ultimate sacrifice in support of the American Revolution and deserves our utmost respect and gratitude. Casimir Pulaski devoted his life to the cause of liberty around the world. Inspired by the plight of a young nation striving to be free, Pulaski traveled to America to serve under General George Washington. Quickly distinguishing himself as a brilliant military tactician, Pulaski was entrusted by General Washington with sole command of the fledgling national cavalry. Pulaski was appointed brigadier general four days after a heroic performance at Brandywine, where he rescued the cavalry from certain defeat and saved the life of General Washington. General Pulaski also played an instrumental role in conflicts with British forces in the battles of Germantown, Little Egg Harbor, and Minisink before heading south to Charleston and ultimately Savannah. It was in Savannah that General Pulaski was struck with cannon fire while charging into battle. He died a few days later at the age of 34. In Chicago, we honor Casimir Pulaski with his name on a major road. In Illinois, we honor Pulaski with a state holiday, Pulaski Day. Today, let us do what he is truly deserving of: Let us give Casimir Pulaski - this brave, deserving patriot - the rare honor of being named an honorary American citizen. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution." The resolution passed unanimously, 422-0. (October 7, 2009) ###
09.30.2009	(updated September 2009) One of the challenges to reining in health care costs is the absence of transparency in prices charged for medical care. When California implemented a price disclosure law, it found that one hospital charged $120 for a chest x-ray while another charged more than $1,500. Congressman Lipinski's personal experience with this issue when he was hospitalized with a broken hip led him to introduce his first bill, the Hospital Price Disclosure Act of 2005. He continues to push this legislation and this year has introduced the Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act of 2009 (H.R. 2566). This bill would require hospitals to reveal the prices charged for the most commonly delivered medical services and pharmaceutical drugs, putting pressure on hospitals to lower their prices and reducing Americans' medical costs. Similarly, Congressman Lipinski helped introduce the Informed Consumer Choices in Health Care Act of 2009 (H.R. 2427). Under this legislation, health insurance providers would be required to provide consumers with complete disclosure of what is-and is not-covered in their health care plans, in plain language. This will enable Americans to make fully informed choices when purchasing health insurance. Congressman Lipinski has also been a strong proponent of reducing the skyrocketing costs of pharmaceutical drugs. In 2007, Lipinski cosponsored and helped pass in the House the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, which would require the government to negotiate with drug manufacturers to achieve lower prices through bulk purchasing. Congressman Lipinski helped introduce this legislation again this year (H.R. 684) and will continue to fight to pass it. He also has introduced a bill, H.R. 2917, to take away the tax break that pharmaceutical companies currently enjoy for the expensing of advertising, marketing, and promotional costs. Tax dollars should not be used to help companies promote pharmaceuticals. An estimated 9 million children in the U.S. lack health insurance, 88 percent of whom come from working families. Even simple health problems that are permitted to persist without adequate treatment at an early age can lead to chronic and debilitating conditions, or even threaten the lives of young children. For that reason, Congressman Lipinski strongly supported this year's successful effort to expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program to cover an additional 4 million children. Lipinski repeatedly voted to approve this expansion - including voting to override President Bush's veto in 2008. While all of these actions are important, Congressman Lipinski knows that comprehensive health care reform is needed. As an attempt to start the debate on comprehensive reform, last year Lipinski helped introduce the Healthy Americans Act (H.R. 6444), which would begin to reform the U.S. health care system by reducing costs, ensuring universal coverage, and lessening the burden on the American taxpayer. This legislation would improve health care coverage by providing tax incentives to enable individuals to purchase insurance as part of a large pool. This legislation also places an emphasis on prevention and disease management, and eliminates discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. By treating these conditions early on, we can significantly reduce health care costs. Moving Forward on Comprehensive Reform There are many different proposals for comprehensive health care reform. They range from the national health care system model of Great Britain and the single-payer system of Canada, to policies that place every individual on their own, with tax breaks being the only government involvement. As President Obama's campaign commercials declared, the effective and responsible public policy lies somewhere in the middle. Congressman Lipinski supports the concept of a public health insurance option, one that will enable competition and supplement choices for individuals and businesses. This new public option should comply with all the rules and standards that apply to private insurance. Lipinski also believes there must be improved standards for private health insurance coverage. Private health insurance reform will rein in costs, expand coverage and portability, promote preventative medical care and preserve coverage for those with pre-existing conditions. There must be benchmarks for health care quality and means by which individuals can effectively appeal decisions that may limit their medical options or coverage. Congressman Lipinski recently signed on to the health care reform principles promoted by the Health Care for America Now campaign - a coalition of over 1,000 consumer protection, labor and other groups. The group's goal is "affordable, quality health care for everyone in America." The principles endorsed by HCAN include an inclusive and accessible health care system, choices between private and public health insurance plans, health care standards that include preventative services and treatment, cost reductions and controls, and strong oversight and watchdog functions to ensure an efficient health care system. There are many details yet to be addressed, but as health care reform proceeds through the legislative process, Congressman Lipinski remains committed to supporting options that will reduce costs, expand coverage, increase transparency, and promote preventative care and early treatment options.
09.28.2009	Southwest News-Herald September 28, 2009 By Congressman Dan Lipinski A year ago this week, then-Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. said the world's financial system was on the verge of collapse. Congress was given a $700 billion Wall Street bailout plan and told it was needed to avert catastrophe. There was great pressure to vote for the plan. But after studying the bill, I decided it was riddled with loopholes and there was no guarantee it would help middle-class Americans. On Sept. 29, I voted against the bailout bill and it failed. Four days later, after much arm-twisting, the bailout passed. The bill had not improved, so I held firm and reluctantly voted against it again. I believed the bailout bill was the wrong thing to do then, and I am even more convinced of that today. Many of my worst fears about the bailout have unfortunately come to pass. We still don't know what the banks have done with the billions they were given, executives at bailed-out firms have taken home huge paychecks, foreign banks received taxpayer money, and - most importantly - unemployment has skyrocketed. Last week, I called on the Treasury Department to end the bailout program and stop more taxpayer money from being misspent. Incredibly, a year after Wall Street's meltdown, little has been done to reform the financial system. That must change. We cannot permit big financial institutions to continue to live by the slogan, "Heads we win, tails the taxpayers lose." For now, the markets appear to have stabilized. But that is of little comfort to the thousands of Third District residents who are out of work or have seen their hours and wages cut. They are among the innocent victims of this recession, and just as they continue to fight for their share of the American Dream, I am fighting on their behalf and to make sure more Americans do not suffer their fate. Creating jobs and putting people back to work must be our top priority. A so-called "jobless recovery" is no recovery at all. So what can be done now? Among other things, I'm working to help the private sector create jobs; to put people to work building vital infrastructure; to make sure taxpayer dollars are spent here at home; to protect American manufacturing; and to stop unfair trade that hurts American workers. Though the Administration wants to delay a new federal transportation bill for 18 months, I say we should pass a bill now because it would put people to work repairing our roads, bridges, and public transit system. In the last such bill, I brought home $126 million for Third District projects. Since the recession started, America has lost 2 million manufacturing jobs. To reverse that trend, I've introduced a bipartisan bill to help restore the flow of credit to manufacturers, enabling them to save and create jobs. In addition, I'm sponsoring a bill to stop illegal currency manipulation by China and other nations that costs American jobs. And I recently led 28 members of the House of Representatives in telling President Obama that any climate change legislation must include vital protections for American manufacturers. I also continue to lead the fight for Buy American legislation so that our tax dollars help American workers. Meanwhile, in order to help those who are struggling to find work, I voted last week to extend unemployment benefits. Right now there are six unemployed for every one job opening. With unemployment expected to continue rising, we must do all this and much more to restore prosperity. As we move forward, I will be focused on rebuilding our economy on a solid foundation. We cannot afford to inflate yet another bubble that bursts and leaves hard-working Americans to suffer the consequences. Write me at 6245 S. Archer Ave., Chicago, IL 60638, or call me at (312) 886-0481 or in Washington at (866) 822-5701. Visit www.lipinski.house.gov to sign up for my e-mail newsletter. ###
09.25.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted Tuesday to extend unemployment benefits by up to 13 weeks for workers in high unemployment states, including Illinois. The Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009 (H.R. 3548) is expected to aid over 1 million people who would have exhausted their unemployment benefits by the end of the year. "This bill will help people feed themselves and their families and pay their bills while they continue to look for work in incredibly difficult circumstances," Lipinski said. "While voting for this bill was the right thing to do, the fact that it is necessary is a reminder of how much still remains to be done. That is why I am working to pass bills that will help the private sector create jobs and put people back to work fixing our nation's transportation infrastructure. Nationwide unemployment is at a 26-year high. That's unacceptable. We have to do everything we can to spark job creation and return to full employment. A so-called 'jobless recovery' is no recovery at all." Congressman Lipinski continues to fight to create jobs, protect American workers from unfair trade practices by foreign nations, make sure taxpayer dollars are spent here at home, and enhance scientific education and innovative research that will ensure America remains the world's technological and economic leader. As Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Lipinski continues to fight to pass a new federal highway and transit funding bill that will put Americans back to work building and repairing our transportation infrastructure. The current transportation funding bill expires at the end of September and the Obama Administration and the Senate want to wait 18 months to pass a new transportation bill. But Lipinski is pushing to pass this legislation as soon as possible to create jobs doing needed work. In the last federal transportation bill, Lipinski brought back $126 million that has been used for important projects across the Third District such as repairing crumbling roads, building bridges, and helping to alleviate congestion. Lipinski recently introduced a bipartisan bill to restore the flow of much-needed credit to manufacturers to spur the creation of jobs. The BUILD Manufacturing Act (H.R. 2936) creates a government-backed loan guarantee program without the use of additional taxpayer money. Congressman Lipinski is also leading the fight to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent on American-made products that create and sustain American jobs instead of being sent overseas. In addition, Lipinski is working to protect American workers from unfair trade practices. He is a cosponsor of legislation that would crack down on the illegal and unfair currency manipulation by foreign countries such as China that has been increasing our trade deficit and hurting American workers. Earlier this month, Lipinski led 28 members of the House of Representatives in sending a bipartisan letter to President Obama urging him to drop his opposition to provisions in the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would ensure a level playing field for American manufacturers and prevent job losses to foreign nations that do not limit greenhouse gas emissions. (September 25, 2009) ###
09.25.2009	With the anniversary of the misguided $700 billion bailout of the financial system coming up next week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today joined 27 members of the House of Representatives in requesting that the Treasury Department allow the Troubled Asset Relief Program to expire in December. "I voted against the bailout every time it came before me because it contained no real accountability, oversight, or reform, and was ridden with loopholes," Lipinski said. "It was a blank check to those who caused the financial meltdown in the first place, and the passage of time has unfortunately shown that my worst fears about TARP, which I discussed in detail at the time I opposed it, were fully warranted. We still don't know what the banks have done with the billions they were given, executives at firms the taxpayers propped up have taken home huge paychecks, foreign banks wound up receiving taxpayer money, and despite the passage of a year little has been done to fix our broken regulatory system. It's time to shut down this program before any more of our money vanishes into the black hole that is Wall Street's coffers, particularly now that the biggest players have returned to the types of high-risk strategies that caused the crisis. Rather than continuing down the same path, we must pass strong new regulations to prevent the financial sector from once again leading the economy off a cliff." Problems with TARP were on display Thursday, as TARP Special Inspector General Neil Barofsky testified about the program before the Senate Banking Committee. He reported "it is extremely unlikely that the taxpayer will see a full return on its TARP investment," called the Treasury Department's repeated refusal to disclose more information about how banks are using taxpayer money "a significant frustration," and said TARP "largely remains a program in which taxpayers are not being told what most of the TARP recipients are doing with their money and will not be told the full details of how their money is being invested." Under the legislation that created TARP, the Treasury Department, not Congress, decides whether to extend the program. The lack of checks and balances in the bailout was one of the many reasons Congressman Lipinski opposed it. Treasury has disbursed or committed to disburse $445 billion under TARP, according to the Special Inspector General, but billions more could still be stopped from being potentially misspent by ending the program. "We cannot allow the memory of the havoc that unwise and unscrupulous financiers wreaked on the economy last fall to fade," Lipinski said. "I believed then that it was important to stabilize the financial system and prevent a complete collapse. But I also believed, along with many economists, experts, and ordinary people, that the means chosen to achieve that goal were profoundly flawed, and that a better approach was needed. I take no pleasure in having been right." "Though the worst of the financial crisis may have passed, it is painfully evident that America will still be dealing with the aftershocks for some time to come," Lipinski added. "Unemployment is at a 26-year high. I am focused on supporting efforts to kick-start a genuine recovery, create jobs, enhance America's global competitiveness, and ensure that our economic future is a bright one built on a foundation of real profits instead of creative accounting, financial sleight-of-hand, and mountains of debt." Click here to view a copy of the letter signed by Congressman Lipinski and sent to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. (September 25, 2009) ###
09.24.2009	Last week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) voted to pass the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (H.R. 3221), which would make college more affordable for millions of students and their families at no additional cost to taxpayers. The bill passed the House of Representatives 253 to 171. "The value of a college degree has never been greater than in today's economy, which pits highly trained workers and innovative businesses from around the globe against one another," Lipinski said. "Unfortunately, the cost of higher education has also increased dramatically, and even before our economy fell into recession many students and families were having a tough time paying for college. This bill takes billions of dollars that would otherwise be going to bank profits and uses the money to increase federal student aid and help young people get the education they need to succeed and thrive." The act generates savings estimated at up to $87 billion over 10 years by eliminating subsidies to banks in favor of a direct lending program. The money would be used to: Increase the maximum annual federal Pell Grant scholarship to $6,900 over the next decade. Invest $10 billion in community colleges, which are playing an increasingly important role in our educational system. Invest $8 billion to improve early-childhood learning. Invest $4 billion in school modernization, renovation, and repair projects. "As a former college professor, I have always been a strong supporter of higher education," Congressman Lipinski said. "But I know very well from my experience that it can place a tremendous financial burden on families. This bill is a cost-efficient way to reduce the high price of higher education, and I will continue to work to make college more affordable for all my constituents." (September 24, 2009) ###
09.21.2009	Taxpayers must be protected from Wall Street’s appetite for risk, Congressman Lipinski says Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has joined nine of his colleagues in sending a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke seeking to protect taxpayers from the danger posed by investment bank Goldman Sachs' renewed embrace of high-risk trading strategies. "The economic turmoil resulting from Wall Street's recklessness continues to cost American workers their jobs, yet Goldman Sachs appears to be indulging in the same kind of risk-taking that got us into this mess," Lipinski said. "We can't allow Wall Street firms to stick taxpayers with the bill for losses resulting from greed and short-sightedness, only to watch them turn around and report record profits and outrageous pay packages. Part of the reason I refused to go along with the bailout of Goldman and other big banks was that I believed it would encourage them to simply return to business as usual. Unfortunately, I was right." Last fall, Goldman Sachs converted from an investment bank into an ordinary bank - seemingly a lower-risk enterprise - in order to obtain government assistance. But earlier this year the Federal Reserve granted it a temporary exemption from the rules that apply to ordinary banks, allowing it to continue engaging in risky trading. With the help of government funds, Goldman went on to post the biggest quarterly profit in its history and set aside enough money to pay its employees an average of approximately $770,000 each this year. "The only difference between Goldman Sachs today and Goldman Sachs last year is that today the company is officially gambling with government money," the letter to Chairman Bernanke states. "This is the very definition of 'heads we win, tails the taxpayers lose.'" The letter asks Chairman Bernanke for answers to a series of questions intended to help Congress and the public evaluate the consequences of the Federal Reserve's decision to allow Goldman to operate as an investment bank. "If the crisis on Wall Street and the resulting recession have taught us anything, it is that we must rewrite the rules governing the financial system to prevent history from repeating itself," Lipinski said. "Goldman's recent behavior reinforces that. Apparently, the only lesson some banks have learned is that it still pays to gamble with other people's money." (September 21, 2009) ###
09.18.2009	On Monday, Sept. 21 and Monday, Oct. 5, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host Senior Fairs to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses. "I take great pride in looking out for the interests of the Third District's senior citizens while on Capitol Hill," Lipinski said. "But I also want seniors to know that I stand ready to help them cut through bureaucratic red tape at home to get the services they need when they need them. My office has helped countless seniors get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans' benefits, the Postal Service, and many other federal issues. This Senior Fair is an extension of my help for all the seniors in my district." Following are Senior Fair dates and locations: Monday, Sept. 21 - 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., American Legion Hall, 6050 S. Harlem Ave., Summit, IL. Monday, Oct. 5 - 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., Johnson-Phelps Post 5220 VFW, 9514 S. 52nd Ave, Oak Lawn, IL. Among those scheduled to attend are representatives from 21st Century Chiropractic, Addus Healthcare Inc., ADT-Home Health, Advocate Christ Medical Center, Age Options, Archer Pharmacy, Comfort Keepers, the Cook County Clerk's Office, the Cook County Sheriff's Office, Franciscan Village, Home Helpers, the Illinois Attorney General's Office, the Illinois State Treasurer's Office, Moraine Court, Sertana Speech and Hearing Center, the Social Security Administration, and the U.S. Census Bureau. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. (September 18, 2009) ###
09.16.2009	In response to President Obama's request for health care reform proposals in his address last week to a Joint Session of Congress, Congressman Lipinski (IL-03) today sent the President a letter detailing legislation that would cut the federal deficit and help lower the cost of health care, aiding individuals, families, and seniors. The letter offers three bills that Lipinski introduced this year, along with other cost-cutting proposals. "The growing cost of health care not only impacts our national budget, it also puts great strain on the budgets of families and businesses, especially during these very difficult economic times," Congressman Lipinski's letter states. "Thus it is essential that in addition to not adding to the federal debt, reform legislation should also rein in health care costs throughout the system. If we do this, individuals, businesses, and the federal government will all enjoy an easing of financial burdens." Congressman Lipinski's bipartisan Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act (H.R. 2566) would mandate that hospitals regularly disclose the prices they charge for common procedures and medications. This would help to lower prices by allowing consumers to shop for the best value and by increasing competition among hospitals. The bill has been endorsed by Consumers Union, the independent, nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports magazine. Lipinski believes that if all health care providers were required to be transparent about their prices we could significantly lower costs. Lipinski also asked the President to consider his bills to eliminate the billions of dollars in tax breaks that pharmaceutical and health insurance companies receive annually for their advertising and marketing expenditures. Misleading prescription drug ads needlessly increase demand for medications, and drug companies lavish gifts on doctors in an attempt to increase business. Meanwhile, health insurance advertising often consists of little more than feel-good sound bites and rosy scenarios. Lipinski's bills H.R. 2917 and H.R. 3205, the Health Insurance Company Advertising Deduction Denial Act of 2009, would eliminate these indefensible taxpayer subsidies that increase health care costs and the deficit. In addition, Congressman Lipinski asked the President to support H.R. 684, the Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act, which provides the HHS Secretary the authority to negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare recipients. This could save seniors and Medicare as much as $700 billion over eight years. "While these reforms will help cut health care costs for families, seniors, and the federal government, I believe it is essential that we exhaustively look for other good ways to rein in costs and include these in reform legislation," continued Lipinski. "There are systemic reforms, including integrated care and pay for performance systems, that can both reduce costs and improve quality. For instance, you have used the Cleveland Clinic and the Mayo Clinic as good examples of providers that have been successful in containing costs while providing exemplary care. There are numerous success stories across the country, and it is critical that we take this opportunity to do all we can to institute reforms into our health care system so that Americans receive the best possible care without over-paying." Click here to view a copy of Congressman Lipinski's letter to President Obama. (September 16, 2009) ###
09.14.2009	In a speech Tuesday before the 8th annual NanoBusiness Conference in Chicago, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) called for enhanced support for cutting-edge research into nanotechnology, which has the potential to be a revolutionary force for job creation and economic growth. As chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee’s Subcommittee on Research and Science Education and one of the few members of Congress who holds an engineering degree, Congressman Lipinski is a leading supporter of nanotechnology, calling it “the next industrial revolution.” "I firmly believe that nanotech represents one of the most important - possibly the most important - technological keys to future economic growth and new jobs," Lipinski told the audience, which included researchers, investors, and representatives of numerous nanotech small businesses. "I am excited about the potential of nanotechnology and I am interested in what can be done by the government to provide the best environment for nanotech innovations to succeed in the lab and in the marketplace. "Our economy generally and our manufacturing sector in particular are struggling to cope with the worldwide recession, and we are seeing America's competitive edge erode," Lipinski continued. "It is clear that America needs to act now if we want to continue to lead the world in basic research, invent the next generation of products, and reinvent our manufacturing base. I am happy to report that we are acting. We are pushing to double the budget of many of the basic science research agencies and to place a new emphasis on transformative research and technology commercialization. Even more importantly, science, technology, engineering, and math education have never been a higher priority. But while government has an important role to play, I understand that economic success comes through the private sector, through businesses like the ones many of you have started." As chairman of the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, Lipinski helped pass the reauthorization of the National Nanotechnology Initiative in the House this year. The NNI coordinates nanotech research across 25 federal agencies and has helped create a network of state-of-the-art nanoscale research centers. The reauthorization bill makes several major changes to the NNI, including placing increased emphasis on transferring technology from research laboratories to industry. Congressman Lipinski believes more must be done to turn the discoveries generated by government-sponsored nanotechnology research into profitable, job-creating applications and products. Congressman Lipinski's work on nanotechnology does not end with the NNI. As subcommittee chairman, he will be leading the reauthorization this year of the National Science Foundation, which funds Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centers around the country, including two in Illinois. "We have only scratched the surface of nanotechnology's potential to create jobs," Lipinski told the audience. "While the companies assembled here are proof we can turn innovative products, materials, and technologies into successful businesses, we need leaders in academia, business, finance, and politics to do an even better job of promoting nanotech throughout the country. I look forward to continuing to work to help make this happen, and I promise that I will be doing everything I can to make sure that nanotechnology is the next industrial revolution and the economic engine for future growth." (September 14, 2009) ###
09.11.2009	Eight years ago today, on a morning that dawned like any other, as people were sipping their first cup of coffee, seeing their children off to school, and arriving at work, 3,000 innocent people were killed by terrorists in New York, Washington, and Pennsylvania. Despite the passage of years, the memories of Sept. 11, 2001 remain etched in our minds - the horror, the grief, the uncertainty. Yet we also remember the resolve, the determination, and the spirit of unity that emerged, binding us together as Americans and keeping us strong. I think each of us has certain images, thoughts, and feelings from 9-11 that remain to this day. I remember the first responders who rushed without a second thought into burning buildings; the ordinary men and women who struggled to aid the injured and the helpless amid the smoke and flames; the passengers aboard United Flight 93 who gave their lives to protect unknown targets. I've been to that field in Pennsylvania, and I can only imagine what went through the minds of those heroes. We must remember all of those whose time was suddenly and senselessly cut short that morning. And in doing so we should be reminded of two things. First, that in this dangerous world we must remain ever vigilant against the potential threats that we face. In doing this, we must thank those who stand on the front lines, especially our servicemen and women, and our first responders. But vigilance does not mean that we should live in fear. And that is why we should also be reminded of what we all discovered eight years ago today: that there is more that holds us together as Americans than can ever tear us apart. We stand strong when we stand together. (September 11, 2009) ###
09.09.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) led 28 members of the House of Representatives in sending a bipartisan letter today to President Obama urging him to drop his opposition to provisions in the climate bill that would ensure a level playing field for American manufacturers and prevent job losses to foreign nations that do not limit greenhouse gas emissions. "America has lost roughly two million manufacturing jobs since the start of the recession," Lipinski said. "I'm not about to put more of our jobs at risk by making it harder for the industry to compete with China, India, and other countries. Manufacturing is too important to my district, the economy as a whole, and our national security. That's why it is essential that the final version of the American Clean Energy and Security Act include - at a minimum - the carefully crafted tariff provisions that are currently part of the Act. If no such measure is included in the final legislation, I won't be able to support the bill." Joining Lipinski in signing the letter were Rep. Mark Souder (IN-03) and 26 other members of the House of Representatives. "A vibrant manufacturing base is critical to the stability of our nation and our economy," Souder said. "Manufacturing jobs in my district have been especially hard-hit by the current recession. We simply cannot further jeopardize this important industry by implementing policies that give China and others an upper hand. I hope the Obama administration will act quickly to ensure that the tariff provisions currently included remain part of the American Clean Energy and Security Act. Employers and workers, in my district and across the country, deserve at least this basic protection in the bill." The border adjustment provisions currently included in the climate bill that passed the House are consistent with the nation's World Trade Organization obligations. Far from sending a protectionist signal, as President Obama has publicly suggested, they are designed to ensure the legislation does not hand foreign manufacturers an unfair advantage. A report by the United Nations Environment Program and the WTO specifically recognized that carbon tariffs are legal if their purpose is to put manufacturers in different countries on an equal footing. "The objective of a border tax adjustment is to level the playing field between taxed domestic industries and untaxed foreign competition by ensuring that internal taxes on products are trade neutral," states the report, titled Trade and Climate Change. Congressman Lipinski strongly believes America needs to break its addiction to fossil fuels, especially foreign oil, and he has consistently defended both the local and global environment since he was first elected to Congress in 2004. But he does not believe that protecting our environment must entail abandoning the American worker. And while Congressman Lipinski supports free trade, he is staunchly opposed to unfair trade deals that put American jobs at risk. "Without border adjustments, you give consumers an incentive to purchase products that cause emissions in other countries, putting domestic manufacturers at a systemic disadvantage and likely leading to a sharp rise in imported goods," the letter to the President states. "We hope you will not confuse fair play with protectionism." Click here to view a copy of the letter sent to President Obama. (September 9, 2009) ###
09.03.2009	Lipinski's H-Prize Act Aims to Create Clean, Affordable Alternative Hydrogen Energy Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the U.S. Department of Energy is now soliciting entries for the first $1 million prize to be awarded under the H-Prize Act that Lipinski introduced and that became law in December 2007. This is the first in a series of H-Prize awards that will be given for advances in the use of hydrogen as a clean alternative fuel for transportation. Congressman Lipinski's H-Prize is designed to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and protect the environment by inspiring researchers to capitalize on hydrogen's tremendous promise as a fuel source. "Today I am proud to announce that the competition is open for the first H-Prize," Lipinski said. "I introduced the H-Prize Act and fought to get it enacted into law because I believe America must pioneer the development of alternative energy and work toward energy independence. Our reliance on increasingly expensive foreign fossil fuels is a threat to our national security, the economy, and the environment. Producing power with hydrogen has the potential to revolutionize the transportation and energy sectors by replacing polluting, gas-guzzling engines with an efficient source of clean power that frees America from dependence on unfriendly nations." The H-Prize Act was introduced by Lipinski and Rep. Bob Inglis of South Carolina and passed into law as part of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The act authorizes over $50 million in cash prizes for advances in hydrogen energy technology. Last week, the Department of Energy released the rules that will govern the inaugural competition, opening it to entries. The timeline issued by the department would result in a single $1 million prize being awarded in February 2011. This would be the first award made under Congressman Lipinski's legislation. A number of major automotive companies have already produced hydrogen-powered vehicles whose performance is comparable to that of their gasoline-powered cousins. But obstacles still exist to the widespread production and adoption of hydrogen vehicles, including price, fuel-cell durability, the small number of hydrogen refueling stations, and the consequent need to increase the amount of hydrogen that can be stored aboard vehicles. The H-Prize is intended to motivate researchers to overcome these hurdles. "The H-Prize is a win for taxpayers, national security, the economy, and the environment," Lipinski said. "It provides funding that is relatively modest in the context of the federal budget, but still constitutes a substantial incentive for individuals and organizations to undertake cutting-edge research. And it sets specific technical benchmarks that submissions must meet before they can receive an award, ensuring the prize money will be well spent." The inaugural $1 million H-Prize will be awarded for an advance in hydrogen storage materials that results in such benefits as quicker refueling and increased hydrogen storage capacity in cars and light trucks. Greater storage capacity would increase the distance hydrogen vehicles can travel between refueling, helping to make the technology more immediately viable. The winning entry must meet strict technical criteria. Future prizes may be awarded for innovations in hydrogen production, distribution, utilization, prototypes, and transformational technologies. The H-Prize is managed by the Department of Energy and administered by the nonprofit Hydrogen Education Foundation, which supports the work of the National Hydrogen Association. For more information on the H-Prize, visit www.hydrogenprize.org. (September 3, 2009) ###
08.27.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that the City of Chicago will receive $1.34 million from the Federal Aviation Administration for runway exit and taxiway work at Midway Airport that will improve airfield safety and efficiency. "Midway is one of America's busiest airports and a major economic engine in the Third District," Congressman Lipinski said. "With approximately 17 million passengers passing through Midway annually and so many people living in close proximity to the airport, it is critical that air travel at Midway be as safe and efficient as possible. That's why I am pleased to announce this grant, which will improve the flow of aircraft traffic on the ground, helping to speed the arrival of airplanes at their gates." Congressman Lipinski has worked to improve safety at Midway Airport since he first took office. Two years ago, he helped secure $15 million in federal funding for Midway to install arrestor beds to prevent aircraft from overshooting the runway. The only northeastern Illinois member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Lipinski sits on the committee's Subcommittee on Aviation, which oversees and sets America's aviation policy. Lipinski is currently working with committee leadership to help pass an FAA reauthorization bill that will further enhance operations and safety at the nation's airports, as well as provide consumer protections for airline passengers. The new grant for Midway will pay to design two high-speed exits from runways to taxiways, as well as to design rehabilitation plans for a taxiway, increasing safety and decreasing the amount of time needed for planes to exit runways and proceed to their gates. "I continue to work to improve Midway for passengers without adversely impacting the surrounding community," Lipinski said. "Midway Airport is a vital part of the Third District, and I want to ensure it is a good neighbor to those who live, work, shop, and attend school nearby." (August 27, 2009) ###
08.10.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) brought together key officials - including U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan, and Illinois Secretary of Transportation Gary Hannig - to declare state and federal commitments to building the Central Avenue Bypass and to announce that Illinois' new capital bill includes $60 million that will facilitate completion of the design and engineering work for the long-awaited project. The press conference - organized by Lipinski at the future site of the Bypass - also included Illinois Senate Transportation Committee Chairman Martin Sandoval, Illinois Senate Majority Caucus Whip Louis Viverito, Illinois Representative Michael Zalewski, and Bedford Park Village President David Brady. "I am proud to be joined this morning by so many key local, state, and federal leaders - including U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan, and Illinois Secretary of Transportation Gary Hannig - to make two important announcements," said Lipinski. "First, the new capital bill that was recently passed in Illinois includes $60 million which - when added to the $110 million in federal and state money already set aside - will facilitate completion of the design, engineering, and other pre-construction work for the Central Avenue Bypass. Second, to declare strong state and federal commitments to work together for the completion of this long-awaited project. With the dedication of all the key officials that I have brought together today, the Central Avenue Bypass is sure to be a dream that comes true." A project of regional and national significance, the Central Avenue Bypass has been a goal of numerous local, state, and federal leaders for more than three decades and is eagerly awaited, especially by residents of Southwest Chicago and the South Suburbs. South-bound Central Avenue currently dead-ends in the vast rail yard just south of Midway Airport, leaving a three-mile stretch with no north-south access in the heart of the nation's transportation hub. The resulting traffic delays on Harlem Avenue and Cicero Avenue disrupt commerce on a local, regional, and national basis. Building the Bypass will create jobs, reduce congestion, and boost business development in Northeastern Illinois by restoring the efficient flow of goods, services, and people. "There is no other issue that I hear more about from my constituents than getting a Central Avenue Bypass," stated Lipinski. "With this three mile roadblock to north-south traffic, Harlem and Cicero Avenues are terribly congested, costing time, wasting fuel, and harming the environment. I grew up a couple miles from here, and the hope for a Central Avenue Bypass has been an issue for residents of the Southwest Side and South Suburbs since I was a kid coming to Midway Airport to watch the planes land. But because Chicagoland is the transportation hub of our nation, this bypass also has significant economic implications, locally, regionally, and nationally. Congestion kills business and kills jobs." All told, approximately $170 million in state and federal funds has been reserved for the Bypass, including the $60 million in the capital bill. This money is expected to pay for pre-construction engineering and right-of-way acquisition to prepare the project for the next step: construction. "I'm delighted to be here to give the Central Avenue Bypass my full support," said U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood. "This is a project of regional and national importance that promises to reduce congestion and help drive economic growth. We at the Department of Transportation will work with Congressman Lipinski and others to make sure that the Bypass is a priority in the federal transportation reauthorization bill because we know how important it is." "As a strong believer in the importance of the Central Avenue Bypass, it was my pleasure to work to include this project in the capital bill," said House Speaker Michael Madigan. "I know that it will bring much-needed congestion relief to the region. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Lipinski and to seeing the Bypass completed." "The $60 million in the Illinois capital bill that is going directly towards the Central Avenue project is a great start," said IDOT Secretary Gary Hannig. "We are pleased to see this project moving in the right direction and plan to see it all the way through to completion." "I want to thank Speaker Madigan, Governor Quinn, and Secretary Hannig," Lipinski said. "Without them, today's announcement would not have been possible. I also want to say a special thank you to Secretary LaHood for his strong support. I'm looking forward to the day when the first driver sails past the rail yard on Central Avenue, and traffic freely flows down Cicero and Harlem at rush hour. That day is a lot closer today than it ever has been before." (August 10, 2009) ###
08.04.2009	Measure would generate billions for transportation improvements, reduce fuel prices, and tame volatility Last week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped introduce the LOPSIDED Oil Prices Act (H.R. 3379), which aims to lower oil prices by curbing speculative trading and produce billions of dollars to improve the nation's roads, streets, and public transportation. "This bill is a win-win proposition, especially for middle-class Americans," Lipinski said. "It aims to lower prices at the pump for consumers, moderate the price volatility that individuals and businesses have come to dread, and pay for vital transportation projects. The only losers are the wealthy speculators whose actions have done America's economy nothing but harm by helping to drive up the cost of fuel." The bill includes an exemption for legitimate hedgers, such as airlines and railroads, but noncommercial traders such as Wall Street banks and hedge funds would have to pay a 0.2 percent tax on crude oil futures and a 0.5 percent tax on the premium of crude oil options. Many economists and market observers agree that speculative trading is partly to blame for the irrationally high prices and wild fluctuations in the oil market that have become all too familiar in recent years. The bill, which requires all revenues to be deposited into the Highway Trust Fund, could raise $190 billion for vital transportation projects over six years. Devoting the money to transportation makes perfect sense, since 70 percent of oil consumed in the United States is for transportation. The bill's introduction comes as federal regulators are scrutinizing the impact of speculation on oil prices, which have risen dramatically this year despite the ongoing recession. Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the federal Commodity Futures Trading Commission, spoke for many people concerned about speculation when he said in June: "Crude oil prices are up 60 percent on the year. Supplies are at a 10-year high, and demand is at a 10-year low. You do the math. Why should prices be over $70?" "The price of oil should be set by the forces of actual supply and real demand, not by traders at a handful of giant investment banks and hedge funds who have no intention of ever taking delivery of a barrel of oil," Lipinski said. "The excessively high prices we have been paying at the pump represent just another way that Wall Street lines its own pockets at the expense of the broader economy and the American people." (August 4, 2009) ###
08.03.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) highlighted the need to ensure America remains a world leader in manufacturing in remarks delivered Tuesday at a roundtable on Capitol Hill. The event, which focused on promoting American high-speed rail and boosting domestic production of locomotives and rail cars, featured more than two dozen rail, manufacturing, labor, transportation, and business representatives, including John Hamilton, president and CEO of La Grange-based Electro-Motive Diesel Inc. "With the rise of China, India, and other countries, American manufacturers face more competition than ever before," Lipinski said. "That's why it is vital that we support our manufacturers who create good-paying jobs and help keep America strong and safe. As part of that effort, we must help domestic manufacturers become leaders in the high-speed rail market as funding for and interest in high-speed rail continues to grow in our country." A global leader in the manufacture of locomotives, EMD employs approximately 1,600 people at its La Grange headquarters. "Electro-Motive Diesel sees great promise in the future of high-speed rail in the U.S," stated EMD President and CEO John Hamilton. "We are confident that continued investment in research and development and manufacturing in the U.S. will lead not only to a truly advanced transportation system, but also to a growing community of highly skilled U.S. workers." Congressman Lipinski is hard at work on several measures that will provide the nation's manufacturers with much-needed support at a time when they are suffering from severe job losses and a lack of access to capital due to the financial crisis caused by Wall Street's recklessness. Lipinski recently introduced the bipartisan BUILD Manufacturing Act (H.R. 2936), which creates a government-backed loan guarantee program for manufacturers without the use of additional taxpayer money.?? Under the bill, guarantees on loans of up to $50 million would be provided, with an emphasis on small and medium-sized businesses??. The money could be used to purchase new equipment, modernize facilities, expand production capacity, and hire more workers.?? Lipinski is also a co-sponsor of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, which would crack down on currency manipulation that gives overseas manufacturers an unfair advantage. "American manufacturing has a long and storied history of leadership and innovation," Lipinski said. "For the sake of our economy and our national security, we must continue to build on this legacy of excellence. I refuse to simply stand by and watch as more of our jobs are shipped overseas." (August 3, 2009) ###
07.31.2009	Subcommittee Chairman Lipinski hears from Maggie Daley, Abbott, UIC, and CPS Rep. Dan Lipinski and Chicago First Lady Maggie Daley are pictured following Daley’s testimony before the House Science Committee’s Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, chaired by Lipinski. Daley, chair of the nonprofit After School Matters, discussed her organization’s work at a hearing on Chicago’s model efforts to improve science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education inside and outside the classroom. (photo taken by Committee on Science and Technology staff) On Thursday, Research and Science Education Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) held a hearing on Chicago's exemplary efforts to improve science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education through the collaboration of the public and private sectors. Along with representatives of Chicago Public Schools, Abbott, the University of Illinois at Chicago, and the National Science Foundation, the committee heard from Chicago's first lady, Maggie Daley, chair of the nonprofit organization After School Matters, which works to engage young people in STEM fields through a variety of programs. "Chicago's diversity, its top-notch universities, and the commitment of local industry, schools, and city leaders make it an ideal case study for understanding what works in improving STEM education and what can be done at the federal level to encourage best practices across the country," said Chairman Lipinski, whose subcommittee is part of the House Science and Technology Committee. "As someone with a master's degree in engineering, I know that the informal educational opportunities that abound here helped get me interested in the sciences. Those childhood trips to places such as the Museum of Science and Industry, Shedd Aquarium, Adler Planetarium, and the Brookfield Zoo really have an impact." "At no point in recent history has it been more critical for the government and private sector to invest in informal education that supports STEM learning for our young people," Maggie Daley said. "Programs like ours help ignite the spark of interest that will lead teens to future careers in science, math, and technology." Improvements in the nation's STEM education system are vital to maintaining and strengthening our economic competitiveness. Since many decisions in education happen at the local level, the committee examined how STEM partnerships and systemic initiatives are working in Chicago. One example of the efforts underway is the Lab 101 program, which introduces teens to laboratory procedures and involves the participation of After School Matters, the University of Illinois at Chicago, and Abbott. "America needs to be successful in improving STEM education," Lipinski said. "As we heard at Thursday's hearing, Chicago is playing a leading role in bringing diverse stakeholders together to get students excited about STEM subjects. It is our job to learn from these successes and provide STEM educators with the best possible information and tools available." STEM education is a top priority for Chairman Lipinski's subcommittee, and Thursday's hearing was the third he has held on the subject this year. (July 31, 2009) ###
07.30.2009	The Doings July 30, 2009 By Congressman Dan Lipinski America's health care system is in serious need of repair. Unrelenting increases in health care costs are creating an intolerable burden for individuals, families, businesses, and the government, while tens of millions of Americans lack any insurance. People with pre-existing conditions are denied affordable coverage. The first time that hospital patients learn the price of their surgery is when the bill arrives in the mail, full of steep price mark-ups. Insurers bury the details of their plans in the fine print, leaving people uninformed until it is too late. The pharmaceutical industry is hugely profitable, but taxpayers are subsidizing the advertising expenses of drug companies. It is clear to me, and the many Third District residents who have contacted me, that change is long overdue. Every part of the health care system is in need of reform. That's why I am focused on fighting to pass comprehensive reform legislation. As I scrutinize the reform proposals Congress is considering, I am focused on holding all the players in the health care industry accountable, making health care more affordable, and improving the quality of care (including promoting preventive care and early treatment). Controlling skyrocketing costs must be a key priority. Surging costs not only hurt families, but threaten our government's financial stability and the vitality of our nation's economy. Just as I did when considering the ill-conceived bailout and the flawed stimulus, I continue to focus on fiscal discipline. I have been working on repairing broken parts of the health care system since I was elected in 2004. As a diabetic, I am keenly aware of the importance of good care and insurance coverage. The first piece of legislation I introduced in Congress was the Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act. One reason treatment is so expensive is the near-total lack of price information available to health care consumers. These days, entering a hospital for treatment is like buying a car without looking at the sticker. My legislation would end that, by mandating that hospitals disclose the prices they charge for the most common procedures and medications. This would allow people to shop for the best price, helping to drive down costs. I am currently working to ensure that a price transparency provision is included in the legislation Congress is considering. Another issue I believe we must address is the tax break that health insurance and pharmaceutical companies receive for their advertising expenditures. Eliminating these subsidies would produce at least $6.3 billion annually that could be devoted to urgently needed health care reforms. The pharmaceutical ads that fill our airwaves continue to generate concern about the accuracy of the information they contain, and their potential to artificially increase demand for drugs, sometimes even before dangerous side effects become known. One recent study estimated that drug companies spend more on promotion than they do on research and development - a clear example of misplaced priorities. As pro-consumer, pro-taxpayer measures, both my price transparency and pharmaceutical bills are endorsed by Consumers Union, the independent, nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports magazine. No doubt they won't solve every problem in the system, nor do they represent all of my health care reform efforts. But they are examples of the kind of straightforward, common-sense improvements to our health care system that I am fighting for in Washington. As I write this, I continue to work to improve the health care reform legislation that we are considering in the House of Representatives. It is critical that this bill constitutes comprehensive reform, and avoids pouring more money into a broken system. I will carefully examine the bill to make sure it meets my core principles for reform, cost-savings, and coverage, and improves health care for the residents of the Third District. ###
07.24.2009	Click here to view Congressman Lipinski's latest E-Newsletter update concerning the fight to improve health care affordability and quality. (July 24, 2009) ###
07.23.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that he has introduced the Health Insurance Company Advertising Deduction Denial Act (H.R. 3205) to end the tax break that subsidizes health insurance companies' often uninformative and potentially misleading advertising campaigns. "What consumers need from health insurers is complete disclosure that enables them to compare coverage options and make sound decisions about which plan to purchase," Lipinski said. "What they get instead are feel-good sound bites and rosy scenarios, leaving them uninformed until it is too late and they have no alternatives. There is no reason why taxpayers should subsidize insurance companies' ads. This money would be better spent paying for health care reform." The bill is part of Congressman Lipinski's ongoing effort to improve the nation's health care system by holding health care companies and providers accountable, increasing transparency, reducing costs, expanding coverage, and promoting preventive care and early treatment options. The amount of money that ending the tax break would produce to help pay for reform is currently undisclosed due to the nature of IRS reporting, but is likely in the hundreds of millions or billions of dollars annually. Lipinski has introduced several measures closely related to the Health Insurance Company Advertising Deduction Denial Act. His bill (H.R. 2917) to eliminate the tax break for pharmaceutical companies' advertising would yield $6.3 billion annually to pay for reform, according to the Congressional Research Service, and has been endorsed by Consumers Union, the independent, nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports magazine. In addition, Lipinski helped introduce the Informed Consumer Choices in Health Care Act (H.R. 2427), which would require complete, plain-language disclosure by health insurance providers of what their plans do - and do not - cover. Lipinski has also authored the Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act of 2009 (H.R. 2566), which requires hospitals to reveal the prices charged to patients for the most commonly delivered medical services and pharmaceutical drugs. Consumers Union has endorsed that bill as well. "For too long, health insurers have been allowed to bury the details of their coverage plans in print so fine and language so obscure that it's nearly impossible for anyone to know what exactly they're buying," Lipinski said. "The time for that is over. And the advertising tax break that health insurance companies currently enjoy is a gift they don't deserve." (July 23, 2009) ###
07.22.2009	Today, the House Committee on Science and Technology's Research and Science Education Subcommittee held a hearing to examine current research findings, best practices, and the role of federal agencies in increasing the interest of girls in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) in primary and secondary school. Members questioned witnesses about the challenges that deter young women from pursuing post-secondary STEM degrees. "Over the past few decades, girls and women have made substantial gains in breaking down barriers in both education and the workforce. However, women's participation rates in certain STEM disciplines remain disproportionately low," stated Subcommittee Chairman Daniel Lipinski (IL-03). "According to the NSF, although women earned more than half of all science and engineering bachelor's degrees in 2006, they earned only about 20 percent of degrees in engineering, computer science, and physics. Although this is an improvement from the time I was earning my mechanical engineering degree from Northwestern University 20 years ago, more can be done to encourage women in these fields." In the past few years, interest in gender inequity in STEM education and fields has increased. In 1993, the National Science Foundation (NSF) created the Program for Women and Girls which led to the Research and Gender in Science and Engineering Program (GSE). The GSE program produced a series of publications established to help educators, employers, and parents promote gender diversity in STEM. The FY 2009 budget allocated roughly $11.5 million to NSF's GSE program. According to a recent assessment by the National Association of Educational Progress, there is a small but persistent gap in performance within STEM education between boys and girls in primary and secondary schools - less than one percent for math and less than three percent for science. Many researchers believe that issues such as self-confidence and perceived expectations negatively affect the achievement of girls on standardized tests. At today's hearing, witnesses stressed the importance of mentors and support from parents in encouraging females to pursue degrees and jobs in STEM fields. Ms. Cherryl Thomas mentioned the significance even the toys parents buy their daughters can have on their interest in engineering and science. Her interest in engineering was sparked by a set of her brother's building blocks. "We have heard time and time again that, as a nation, we are not producing enough scientists and engineers for the increasing number of technical jobs of the future. We need to make sure that we have the scientific and technical workforce we need if we are to remain a leader in the global economy, and it is not possible to do this without developing and encouraging all the talent in our nation. We must have women engineers, computer scientists, and physicists. By broadening the STEM pipeline to include more women and other under-represented groups, we can strengthen our workforce," added Lipinski. A highly-skilled, STEM education workforce is essential to ensuring the United States' competitiveness and leadership in the global economy of the 21st century. For more information, please visit the Committee's website. (July 22, 2009) ###
07.21.2009	Funding will equip new library with the latest technology Saint Xavier University is set to receive $550,000 to equip its new library with an array of information technology designed to enhance student learning, thanks to the efforts of Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03). "I am extremely pleased to have secured this funding, which will provide Saint Xavier's new Stump Library with state-of-the-art technology, helping to prepare the university's more than 5,300 students for life in today's highly competitive digital economy," Lipinski said. "As a strong believer in the importance of higher education, I know how vital Saint Xavier has been for over a century-and-a-half." "I fondly remember visiting Saint Xavier in the 1970s when my mother was earning her bachelor's degree in history," Lipinski continued. "The school has only continued to get better through the years, both for its students and for the Southwest communities in which it is located. I am proud that by securing this funding I am able to support Saint Xavier's efforts to offer a cutting-edge learning experience that is second to none." Last week, the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services approved $550,000 for the university for equipment and technology for a new media center, library, and distance learning programs. Much of the new technology will find a home in the Robert and Mary Rita Stump Library, which is in the midst of a dramatic expansion and renovation. "On behalf of the entire Saint Xavier University community, I extend our gratitude to Congressman Lipinski for his efforts to secure federal funding for technological improvements to our Stump Library," said Saint Xavier President Judith A. Dwyer, Ph.D. "With this funding, our state-of-the-art improvements will benefit current and future Saint Xavier students and also provide a valuable resource to the wider community. We are grateful for Congressman Lipinski's dedication and commitment to higher education and to Saint Xavier University." The money will help pay for a new media center that will stimulate innovation and aid in the development of new applications of technology to teaching; an information commons to support research, library reference services and instruction; a mobile computer lab that will convert regular classrooms into temporary computer labs; and an online communications system that will provide students with live Web casts, on-demand materials and lectures, distance learning programs, and other tools that will expand the university's reach. Equipment in the new media center will be used to develop digital literacy programs for students and the community at large. The funding measure passed by the appropriations subcommittee must still overcome several legislative hurdles before the money can be distributed to Saint Xavier, but Congressman Lipinski will be working to ensure the funds survive the process. "Saint Xavier has a proud history and a lengthy track record of success," Lipinski said. "I am glad to be doing my part to help it meet new challenges and adapt to our changing times. I look forward to continuing to work with Saint Xavier." (July 21, 2009) ###
07.21.2009	Legislation Lipinski Authored Would Produce Real Health Care Reform for Americans Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) is urging Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel to strengthen the health care reform legislation currently under consideration by adding measures that hold down health care costs and eliminate tax deductions for advertising by pharmaceutical and health insurance companies. "I am a firm believer in the need to reform our health care system by reducing costs, expanding coverage, increasing transparency, and promoting preventive care and early treatment options," Lipinski said. "But I'm concerned that in its current state, the reform bill doesn't do enough to contain costs. I also believe there's no reason taxpayers should subsidize questionable advertising tactics by big pharmaceutical and health insurance companies, and that we would be better off using that money to pay for reform." Congressman Lipinski's Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act (H.R. 2566) would mandate that hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers regularly disclose the prices they charge for the 25 most common inpatient and outpatient procedures, as well as the 50 most frequently prescribed medications. This would allow consumers to compare prices for care, helping to drive down surging health care costs by fostering competition. "At a time when we have more information than ever at our fingertips, health care costs remain largely hidden from view," Lipinski said. "We can shop online for everything from airline tickets to clothing, yet it is impossible to do the same with medical care. That's part of the reason costs are so high: We often have no idea what we are signing up for when we walk through a hospital's doors." Congressman Lipinski's bill H.R. 2917 would eliminate the tax deduction for both the advertising of prescription drugs and pharmaceutical companies' promotional expenses, including entertainment, amusement, recreation, gifts, and travel provided to doctors who are responsible for prescribing their drugs. Eliminating the deduction would produce $6.3 billion annually that could be devoted to paying for reform. Drug companies' spending on consumer advertising has quadrupled since 1996, generating persistent concerns about the accuracy of the information the public is receiving, the potential to increase demand for newer drugs before adverse side effects become known, and the encouragement of overuse or misuse. Meanwhile, pharmaceutical companies spend even more on promoting their drugs to doctors, raising questions about the possible influence on physicians' prescribing decisions. Lipinski has also introduced the Health Insurance Company Advertising Deduction Denial Act (H.R. 3205) to end the tax break that subsidizes health insurance companies' often uninformative and potentially misleading advertising campaigns. "The public deserves straight talk and complete disclosure from pharmaceutical companies and health insurers," Lipinski said. "Instead, it usually gets feel-good sound bites, rosy scenarios, and efforts that confuse rather than enlighten. The last thing we should be doing is making it easier for these companies to continue advertising in such an unfortunate fashion, especially when we could be using the money to improve health care for the American people." Copies of Congressman Lipinski's letters to Chairman Waxman and Chairman Rangel are attached. (July 21, 2009) ###
07.16.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that a House appropriations subcommittee has approved $500,000 he requested to renovate the Stone Avenue Metra station in La Grange. "Once again, I'm pleased to be bringing federal dollars back to the Third District for another worthy project," Lipinski said. "This money will help restore Stone Avenue Station to its original glory and add a number of user-friendly enhancements that will benefit the almost 1,000 commuters that use the station on an average day." Designed by local architect John Tilton, built in 1901, and designated a local landmark by The La Grange Area Historical Society in 1971, the station has slowly deteriorated over time, making a comprehensive renovation necessary. The Village of La Grange, Metra, and BNSF Railway are collaborating on the project, which includes a careful and historically respectful rehabilitation of the structure, accessibility upgrades, and the addition of a "kiss and ride" area along with improved bicycle facilities. "Congressman Lipinski continues to demonstrate his commitment to the residents of his district and his dedication to improving transportation in and around Chicago," La Grange Village President Elizabeth Asperger said. "Stone Avenue Station is a local landmark with iconic value. But just as importantly, it is one of the busiest stations along the Burlington Northern railroad corridor." This week, the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development included $500,000 for the Stone Avenue Station in a funding measure. The bill still faces several legislative hurdles before the money can be delivered to the Village of La Grange, but Congressman Lipinski will be working to ensure the project survives the process. "I continue to focus on finding ways to get local infrastructure improvements done, and I look forward to watching as the Stone Avenue Station is given the renovation and updating that it deserves," Lipinski said. (July 16, 2009) ###
07.16.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that he has succeeded in obtaining $150,000 in federal funds for the Valentine Boys & Girls Club of Chicago to combat youth obesity, promote healthy lifestyles, and keep kids off the street. "The Valentine Boys & Girls Club is an invaluable asset to the neighborhood, so I am very happy to be able to help the club continue its successful work," Lipinski said. "This money will enable the club to help keep kids healthy with a multi-faceted program that gets them excited about exercising and adhering to a balanced diet while giving them a safe place to go once school lets out." Located in the heart of Bridgeport, the Valentine Boys & Girls Club has more than 2,200 members and an average daily attendance of between 250 and 350 youths, making it the largest Boys & Girls Club in Chicago. But like other nonprofits, the club is finding the recession is impacting its fundraising efforts and its ability to meet the demand for its services, making the new funding secured by Congressman Lipinski especially welcome. "On behalf of our Board of Managers, staff, parents, and club members, we want to thank Congressman Lipinski for his support," said Valentine Club Director Jeffrey Sadowski. "Families need help during these tough times, and thanks to Congressman Lipinski's continued efforts, we will be able to provide quality afterschool programming for all children." The club will use the money to cover expenses necessary to create a daily fitness regime during afterschool hours for youths between the ages of 6 and 18. Among the club's recreational offerings will be swim classes, game-room activities, instruction in strength and cardiovascular training, and sports such as basketball, volleyball, football and floor hockey. In addition, healthy nutrition will be taught in a series of workshops. On Friday, the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services approved a funding measure that includes $150,000 for the club's program. The measure still faces several legislative hurdles before the money can be delivered to the club, but Congressman Lipinski will be working to ensure the project survives the process. "One of the most important things we can teach our children is how to look after their health," Lipinski said. "By reaching kids early and instilling in them a sense of respect for their own bodies, lives, and well-being, we do more than help them to avoid the burdens of illness. We help give them the confidence and motivation necessary to become productive, responsible, and caring citizens." (July 16, 2009) ###
07.13.2009	Improvements to Small Business Research Grant Program Encourage American Innovation On Wednesday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed The Enhancing Small Business Research and Innovation Act of 2009 (H.R. 2965) to reauthorize and improve the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. These two federal programs are the largest research and development (R&D) programs for small businesses, providing funding to develop and commercialize new technologies. Since the programs' inception, Congressman Lipinski has helped secure more than $2.5 million in seed money for small high-tech firms' R&D activities in his district. "For more than 25 years, the SBIR and STTR programs have played a significant role in turning a wide variety of innovative dreams into reality - from needleless insulin patches to wireless technology for Blackberrys," Lipinski said. "In the current economic climate, we must do everything in our power to support small high-tech start-up companies, as they are essential for competitiveness, economic growth, and job creation." The bill passed by a vote of 386-41. Prior to consideration in the full House, Lipinski supported passage in the Small Business Committee and the Science and Technology Committee, on which he is a leading member. The legislation calls for increased award sizes for early and mid-stage development (Phase I and Phase II) to better support high-tech research at small firms. It also expands the programs to include some venture capital-backed small businesses. "The expansion and modernization of the SBIR and STTR programs comes at an opportune time," Lipinski said. "With unemployment currently at 9.5 percent, there is a critical need to strengthen the small businesses that generate 70 percent of new jobs in our country. These two programs give innovative small businesses the support they need to create new jobs, new technologies, and even entirely new American industries. I firmly believe that this will help boost our economy and improve our long-term competitiveness." (July 13, 2009) ###
07.13.2009	Thanks to a joint effort involving Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and state leaders, Illinois' new capital bill includes $300 million for the CREATE rail modernization program, which is designed to reduce rail and road congestion in and around Chicago while creating jobs and improving safety. The inclusion in the bill of funding for CREATE follows Congressman Lipinski's meetings and discussions with Governor Pat Quinn, House Speaker Michael Madigan, Senate President John Cullerton, House Minority Leader Tom Cross, and Senate Minority Leader Christine Radogno regarding the importance of the program. "Today is a historic day for Illinois and Chicagoland," said Lipinski, who is Northeastern Illinois' only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. "I commend our state's leaders for their foresight in making this possible. Blocked railroad crossings that result in long delays for motorists have been a fact of life for generations of area residents. But the money for CREATE that is included in the Illinois Jobs Now! plan will go a long way toward alleviating this issue in our communities. At a time when the economy needs all the help it can get and job losses continue to mount, the funding will also put people back to work building vital infrastructure projects. And by reducing rail shipping times, funding for CREATE will help to bolster business activity." A $1.5 billion public-private partnership, the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency Program will construct 31 rail overpasses and underpasses and include numerous other infrastructure projects that will benefit national and regional freight traffic, intercity rail passengers, and local drivers. Every day, approximately 1,200 trains pass through the Chicago area, supporting some 38,000 rail-related jobs. Demand for freight rail service in Chicago is projected to nearly double over the next two decades, creating jobs and growing the local economy. But if needed infrastructure improvements are not made, studies show the region could miss out on as many as 17,000 jobs. Congressman Lipinski has led the fight to obtain funding for CREATE, securing $100 million in federal funding for the program in 2005. "CREATE is critically important to the Third District, the Chicago region, the state, and indeed the country," Lipinski said. "As my Committee in Congress begins work on a new six-year transportation bill that will allocate billions in funding for local projects, I look forward to continuing to ensure CREATE is fully funded and produces all the benefits it was designed to achieve." (July 13, 2009) ###
07.09.2009	Funding will help keep Americans safe and sustain 100 local jobs Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2997, the Agriculture Appropriations Act of 2010, which includes $2.077 million secured by Congressman Dan Lipinski for the National Center for Food Safety and Technology located in the Third Congressional District in Summit, IL. Under the direction of the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT), the Center works to proactively address and resolve national and global food safety issues. Currently, 100 area residents are employed at the Center. "Far too often we hear about food recalls and warnings, and far too often people are getting sick - and sometimes dying - after eating common foods such spinach, tomatoes, peanut butter, and peppers," stated Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03). "In fact, foodborne diseases cause approximately 76,000,000 illnesses, 325,000 hospitalizations, and 5,000 deaths in the United States each year. That is why I am pleased to have once again secured federal funding for IIT's National Center for Food Safety and Technology. This funding will be critical in providing local researchers the tools they need to protect our national food supply while sustaining good-paying local jobs." Established in 1988, the National Center for Food Safety and Technology provides an environment where experts from industry, academia, and government pool their scientific experience and institutional perspectives to promote food safety and provide solutions for improving public health. The Center's research has been applied to science-based policy and production processes affecting a wide variety of food safety issues including E. coli in spinach, Salmonella in processed foods, Botulinum in canned foods, and chemical contaminants in foods. "We are deeply appreciative of Congressman Lipinski's successful efforts to secure funding for IIT's National Center for Food Safety and Technology," said David Baker, IIT Vice President for External Affairs. "This $2,077,000 in the House Agriculture Appropriations bill will help keep 100 IIT and Food and Drug Administration employees at work, developing new technologies for protecting the nation's food supply in collaboration with industry and the federal government." H.R. 2997 also increases the overall level of national investment in food and drug safety. Specifically, the legislation provides nearly $3 billion, 14 percent more than 2009, for the Food and Drug Administration to conduct 1,150 more foreign and domestic food inspections and conduct 20,000 more examinations of imported food. In addition, H.R. 2997 provides over $1 billion for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, 5 percent more than 2009, for inspection of meat, poultry, and egg products, helping to keep Americans safe. Since entering Congress in 2005, Representative Lipinski has secured over $17,000,000 for local projects like the National Center for Food Safety and Technology during the annual appropriations process and more than $126,000,000 for local transportation projects. (July 9, 2009) ###
06.26.2009	Efforts to bring home the remains of more than 500 U.S. service members killed in the World War II Battle of Tarawa received a boost from Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) this week. Before the defense authorization bill passed the House of Representatives on Thursday, Lipinski succeeded in attaching an amendment that calls for the Defense Department to "recover, identify, and return remains of members of the Armed Forces from Tarawa." "Though they lie buried on a distant island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, we cannot forget the courage and sacrifice of those who perished on the shores of Tarawa sixty-six years ago," Lipinski said. "We must do everything possible to see that their remains are recovered and their families are given a chance to return them to the nation in whose defense they died." Tarawa, located halfway between Australia and Hawaii, was the scene of one of the bloodiest battles of World War II. More than 1,100 American lives were lost in three days beginning on Nov. 20, 1943, as the 2nd Marine Division and part of the Army's 27th Infantry took the island in an amphibious assault, dislodging an entrenched force of 5,000 Japanese soldiers. Congressman Lipinski's amendment to the defense authorization bill, H.R. 2647, urges the Department of Defense to review new research on the location of the remains of U.S. servicemen on Tarawa and to do everything feasible to see that they are recovered. A total of 564 service members remain unaccounted for. 11th Ward Chicago Alderman James Balcer, a decorated Marine veteran of the Vietnam War, has fought to focus attention on the missing remains on Tarawa, showing leadership on the issue by introducing a resolution that passed the Chicago City Council on a unanimous vote. Lipinski included Balcer's resolution in the Congressional Record as he spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives urging his colleagues to vote for the amendment. "I want to commend Congressman Lipinski for working toward the recovery of these fallen American heroes who have been abandoned for over sixty years," Balcer said. "This is the right thing to do. It is disgraceful that those who died on Tarawa were left behind, and we need to put a spotlight on this." Many of the missing bodies were buried in temporary graves while the battle raged. While some were disinterred and reinterred in the area by the Navy between 1943 and 1946, no detailed records of the locations have been found. In 1946 and 1947, the Army disinterred all known remains and returned them to Hawaii for identification and repatriation. Over the last three decades, the remains of several servicemen have been discovered by accident, as a result of construction projects. Recent privately funded research has shed new light on the location of unmarked graves, indicating successful recovery is still possible despite development on Tarawa, part of the independent Republic of Kiribati. "The Marines, soldiers, and sailors who lost their lives as they stormed the beaches of Tarawa under withering fire are true heroes," Lipinski said. "It is our solemn duty to see that they are afforded proper burials with all the honors that are their due." Congressman Lipinski also supports a broader provision in the defense authorization bill that directs the Secretary of Defense to implement a "coordinated, integrated, and fully resourced program" dedicated to the recovery of the remains of missing military personnel. The bill sets a goal of accounting for missing and unrecovered personnel, starting at 200 service members a year in 2015 and rising to 350 by 2020. "I want to thank Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton for working with me to include my amendment in the bill, and I look forward to working with him to continue to address this issue in the future," Lipinski said. (June 26, 2009) ###
06.26.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement as the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act. "After much deliberation over the contents of this energy bill, I decided to vote to move the bill on to the Senate. This bill is not perfect, but this is just the first step in the legislative process. "America needs to break its addiction to fossil fuels, especially foreign oil. I have been a strong defender of both the local and global environment since I was first elected to Congress in 2004. But it is not only our environment that is threatened; our national security and economic security are also at risk if we continue down the path that we have been on. "This is not the bill that I would have written. In fact, I helped introduce a bill that would have simply put a user fee on polluters and required all the money collected to be returned to working Americans and retirees in the form of tax cuts and increases in Social Security benefits. "I attempted to add three amendments to the bill. These would have (1) provided a guaranteed increase in Social Security benefits to cover any increased costs, (2) helped protect American manufacturers and manufacturing jobs, and (3) regulated the trading of carbon allowances more closely to avoid the same catastrophe that struck the financial markets. The final version of the bill increases protections for manufacturers, better regulates carbon trading markets, and provides relief for consumers. "I will continue to work to make sure that Social Security recipients do not suffer under this bill, manufacturers are protected even more, and strong regulations are included in the final bill. I spoke with President Obama, who assured me that he would work with me to make these improvements before the bill reaches a final vote. "This was a very difficult vote, but I know that America cannot continue its current course on energy. If we act correctly we can protect the environment, increase our national security, and produce millions of green energy jobs. But this bill must be improved before it becomes law or we will not accomplish these goals. As I said earlier this year when I voted to pass the stimulus bill the first time it was considered in the House, I will continue to be a leader in efforts to revise and improve the bill, and I will not support the final bill unless it is improved. The stimulus bill did not improve, so I did not support final passage. Unfortunately my predictions about that bill's shortcomings have so far proven correct. I will be working to make sure that this energy bill does improve so I can support final passage and help produce a cleaner, more secure, and more prosperous nation." (June 26, 2009) ###
06.22.2009	On Monday, June 22, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host a Senior Fair to give seniors a chance to get assistance with a variety of issues from his staff as well as local organizations, agencies, and businesses. "I take great pride in looking out for the interests of the Third District's senior citizens while on Capitol Hill," Lipinski said. "But I also want seniors to know that I stand ready to help them cut through bureaucratic red tape at home to get the services they need when they need them. My office has helped countless seniors get answers and solve problems involving Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans' benefits, the Postal Service, and many other federal issues. This Senior Fair is an extension of my help for all the seniors in my district." The Senior Fair will be held Monday, June 22, 2009 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Louis S. Viverito Center, 7745 S. Leamington, Burbank, IL 60459. Among those scheduled to attend are representatives from the Cook County State's Attorney's Office, Illinois State Treasurer's Office, Western & Southern Financial Group, Health Spring, Comfort Keepers, Advocate Christ Medical Center, ADT-Home Health Security, Cook County Sheriff's Office, 21st Century Chiropractic, Franciscan Village, Age Options, CEDA (Community and Economic Development Association of Cook County), Health Care & Family Outreach, Illinois Attorney General's Office, Archer Pharmacy, the Illinois Department of Public Health, Relay for Life of Midway, and Waddell & Reed, Inc. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. (June 12, 2009) ###
06.22.2009	As Congress considers major health care legislation, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host a Health Care Forum on June 30 to discuss his leadership on health care reform and to give constituents a chance to hear from a diverse panel of health care experts and make their voices heard on the issue. "Reforming the health care system is one of the most critical tasks facing our nation, and it's been a top priority of mine ever since I was first elected," Lipinski said. "The rapidly rising cost of health care is placing an extraordinary burden on individuals, families, and businesses, and the recession is only making matters worse. We've got to get costs under control and ensure that people can afford high-quality care. But we have to do this in a manner that preserves what is working well for Americans in the system. This forum will give me a chance to hear from my constituents as well as area experts. " Congressman Lipinski has been a leader on health care reform, introducing and helping to pass a number of measures to reduce costs, expand insurance coverage, and increase health-care quality. Lipinski's Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act would require hospitals to reveal the prices charged for the most commonly delivered medical services and pharmaceutical drugs, putting pressure on hospitals to lower their prices. He also helped introduce the Informed Consumer Choices in Health Care Act, which would require health insurance providers to provide consumers with complete disclosure of what is-and is not-covered in their health care plans, in plain language. Lipinski has also recently introduced legislation to eliminate the provision in the tax code that allows pharmaceutical companies to write off the costs of public advertising and marketing of drugs to doctors. In 2007, Lipinski cosponsored and helped pass legislation in the House that would require Medicare to negotiate with drug manufacturers to achieve lower prices through bulk purchasing. He also strongly supported this year's successful effort to expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program to cover an additional 4 million children. As an attempt to start the debate on comprehensive reform, last year Lipinski helped introduce the Healthy Americans Act, which would begin to reform the U.S. health care system by reducing costs, ensuring universal coverage, and lessening the burden on American taxpayers. "Congress is considering a number of competing proposals right now," Lipinski said. "As the legislative process continues, I will remain committed to supporting options that reduce costs, expand coverage, increase transparency, and promote preventative care and early treatment options. I want to make sure that I hear from experts and, most importantly, hear from my constituents about their views on reform." Congressman Lipinski's Health Care Forum will be held Tuesday, June 30, 2009 from 7 - 8:30 p.m. at the American Legion Hall, 6050 S. Harlem Ave., Summit, IL 60501. For more information, call (312) 886-0481. (June 22, 2009) ###
06.17.2009	A bill introduced Thursday by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18) would restore the flow of much-needed credit to manufacturers in order to spur the creation of jobs. The BUILD Manufacturing Act, H.R. 2936, creates a government-backed loan guarantee program without the use of additional taxpayer money.?? "Keeping our manufacturing sector strong is essential to both the health of our economy and our national security," Lipinski said. "Highly-efficient American manufacturers provide good-paying jobs and ensure that we do not need to turn to foreign firms to help us defend our nation." "America has lost 3 million manufacturing jobs in the past decade from bad trade deals, lack of credit, and disregard from Congress on manufacturing policy," Murphy said. "The time is now for Congress to stand up for the American worker and support domestic manufacturing. This legislation will help encourage needed investment in America's industrial base and provide relief to stop the downsizing and production cuts. This bill goes together with my efforts to stop China from cheating on their trade deals and will help keep 'Made in the U.S.A.' a reality for manufactured goods." The manufacturing sector has been hit especially hard by the recession and the banking industry's ongoing troubles. Despite multiple attempts by the government to promote increased lending to American businesses, many banks remain unwilling or unable to make loans, forcing manufacturers to cut production and resort to layoffs. "I know just how tough things are for manufacturers right now," Lipinski said. "On tours of plants in my district and in conversations with their owners and employees, I hear about their struggles. These are well-run businesses, many of which have been around for decades. Their problems owe far more to bad decisions on Wall Street than anything else." Under Lipinski's bill, loans to qualified manufacturers would be made with an emphasis on small and medium-sized businesses??. Programmatic funding for loan guarantees has already been established under the Term Asset-Backed Loan Facility. Lipinski's bill would provide for guarantees of up to 70 percent for loans under $10 million, 65 percent for loans between $10 million and $30 million, and 60 percent for loans from $30 million to $50 million. The money could be used to purchase new equipment, modernize facilities, expand production capacity and hire more workers. "Congress has been more than willing to bail out fat cats on Wall Street, but has not been willing to lend a hand to the manufacturers on Main Street," Murphy said. "Having opposed the bailouts of Wall Street, I am pleased to join this bipartisan effort to help the American worker." "You can't build a stable economy on services alone," Lipinski said. "Somebody has to make the goods that we all rely on, and we can't afford to just stand by as U.S. manufacturing jobs are shipped overseas." (June 17, 2009) ###
06.17.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) introduced H.R. 2917 on Wednesday, a bill that would eliminate the tax provision that allows pharmaceutical companies to write off the approximately $12 billion they spend to advertise, market, and promote prescription drugs to doctors and the general public. "There's no reason the American people should subsidize big pharmaceutical companies' marketing expenses when they already have plenty of incentives to spend that money," Lipinski said. "As Congress looks for ways to repair our health care system, this is one simple reform that ought not to be overlooked." Drug companies' efforts to woo physicians have been the subject of increasing scrutiny in recent years. Lipinski's bill would do away with the tax deduction pharmaceutical companies currently enjoy for the cost of entertainment, gifts, and travel related to promoting their drugs to doctors. A recent report by the prestigious Institute of Medicine of the National Academies found that the acceptance of free meals and gifts and other relationships with industry "may influence physicians to prescribe a company's medicines even when evidence indicates another drug would be more beneficial." "The pharmaceutical industry's research and innovation have helped millions of people," Lipinski said. "But drug companies that have developed effective treatments shouldn't have to wine and dine doctors to get their products prescribed or spend billions on commercials to try to sway the public. And they certainly shouldn't receive a gift from the taxpayers to help them do so." (June 17, 2009) ###
06.15.2009	On Sunday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined members of the military injured in Iraq and Afghanistan for a 20-mile bicycle ride through the Third District organized by the Wounded Warrior Project. "As a staunch supporter of our veterans and an avid cyclist, I was truly honored to be given a chance to participate in the Soldier Ride," Lipinski said. "The terrible injuries these brave men and women suffered on the battlefield clearly have not diminished their fighting spirit one iota." The day began in Bridgeport with 11th Ward Alderman James Balcer's well-attended annual Flag Day commemoration, where worn-out flags were ceremoniously retired while local residents, veterans, police, and firefighters looked on. Congressman Lipinski spoke, expressing his gratitude to ride participants for their service. The ride took participants across Pershing Road, down Archer Avenue and north on La Grange Road. It concluded at Sundown Meadow Park in Hodgkins with a fundraiser for the Wounded Warrior Project held by the Chicago Firefighters Union. "The turnout on Archer Avenue was terrific, and I know the riders deeply appreciated it," Lipinski said. "It was great to see men, women and children waving flags, showing support and acknowledging the sacrifices our troops have made." The route was the last leg of the project's Midwest Soldier Ride, which started Thursday in Waterloo, Wisc. The Wounded Warrior Project describes the ride as "at its core, a rehabilitative cycling event designed to challenge our wounded warriors to get back in the saddle, both literally and figuratively." Among the wounded warriors with whom Lipinski rode was Forest Park resident Melissa Stockwell. Stockwell, who lost a leg when a roadside bomb exploded beside her convoy in Iraq in 2004, competed last year in Bejing as a member of the U.S. Paralympic Swim Team. "The obstacles that our wounded veterans face are tremendous," Lipinski said. "The Wounded Warrior Project's Soldier Ride serves to remind us that it is our obligation to see that they receive all the support they need upon returning home." (June 15, 2009) ###
06.12.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will hold two Town Hall Meetings on Saturday, June 20 in order to listen to constituents and take their questions about federal issues. "During these difficult economic times it is more important than ever that the people of the Third District have a representative who is listening to them and taking action to help them," Lipinski said. "This is an exceptionally busy period in Washington, as Congress grapples with job losses, health care reform, energy legislation, and a host of other important matters. I look forward to hearing from my constituents at these meetings and having my staff available to help with any personal issues involving the federal government." Town Hall Meetings Saturday, June 20, 2009 Oremus Community Center, 7900 S. Oketo Ave., Bridgeview, IL 60455 9:30 - 10:30 a.m. Hale Park, 6258 W. 62nd St., Chicago, IL 60638 11:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Congressional staff will be available from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. in Bridgeview and from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in Chicago to assist constituents with any questions or concerns they have regarding federal issues and agencies, including Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans' benefits and the Postal Service. For more information, please call (312) 886-0481. (June 12, 2009) ###
06.12.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) this week supported a resolution offering the House of Representatives' condolences to the family of Army Private William Long, who was shot and killed outside a military recruiting center in Arkansas on June 1. The House also expressed its hopes for a full recovery for Army Private Quinton Ezeagwula, who was injured in the shooting. "The horrifying act of violence that took Private Long's life stands as a reminder of the terrible risks that our brave men and women in uniform confront every day around the globe," Lipinski said. "My thoughts go out to Private Long's family and friends, and I wish Private Ezeagwula a speedy recovery. We are grateful for their service." Private Long and Private Ezeagwula had recently completed basic training and had volunteered to help recruit others to join them in defending the nation. They were shot while they stood outside the Army-Navy Career Center in Little Rock, Ark., and the alleged shooter reportedly has indicated that he targeted them because of their military service. The resolution urges swift prosecution of the perpetrator of the shooting; asks the American people to join Congress in condemning violence; recognizes the service of the 1.4 million active component members of the Armed Forces and the 1.2 million reserve component members of the Armed Forces; recognizes the work of the 15,000 Army and Navy recruiters who serve at more than 1,500 recruiting stations; and acknowledges the extraordinary sacrifices that service in the Armed Forces entails. (June 12, 2009) ###
06.12.2009	Bipartisan legislation recently introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) would allow consumers to compare prices charged by hospitals for common medical procedures and medications, helping to drive down surging health-care costs by fostering competition. "At a time when we have more information than ever at our fingertips, health care costs remain largely hidden from view," Lipinski said. "We can shop online for everything from airline tickets to clothing, yet it is difficult to do the same with medical care. That is part of the reason costs are so high: We often have no idea what we are signing up for when we walk through a hospital's doors." The Hospital Price Transparency and Disclosure Act of 2009 (H.R. 2566) would mandate that hospitals regularly inform the Department of Health and Human Services of the prices they charge for the 25 most common inpatient procedures; the 25 most common outpatient procedures; and the 50 most frequently prescribed medications. HHS would then post the price information online. In addition, hospitals - as well as ambulatory surgery centers, which also are covered by the bill - would have to post notice in their facilities that the data is available through the health department's Web site. The bill has been endorsed by Consumers Union, the independent, nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports magazine. "Millions of Americans, particularly the uninsured, are faced with wildly varying charges for various hospital procedures, and it is often impossible or very difficult to obtain information about the likely cost of a hospital stay before admission to the hospital," Consumers Union stated. "By shining light on this complex area of pricing, Congressman Lipinski's efforts should help introduce an element of competition into the setting of charges and result in lower billings to patients, particularly in those cases where an area hospital's charges are most out of the norm." Cosponsoring the measure with Lipinski is Rep. Bob Inglis (SC-04). "Unexpectedly high medical bills create financial hardships for all too many Americans, forcing some deep into debt or even into bankruptcy," Lipinski said. "Increasing price transparency would help people to avoid that fate by allowing them to make sure they don't pay more than is necessary for the care they require." When California implemented a price disclosure law, it found that one hospital charged $120 for a chest x-ray, while another charged more than $1,500. Lipinski first introduced a version of the bill in 2005, drawing on his personal experience during a hospital stay resulting from a broken hip. (June 12, 2009) ###
06.12.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced this week that the House Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved $150,000 for the village of La Grange Park for a new emergency power generator. The news comes days after Lipinski secured $75,000 for communications equipment for the La Grange Park Police Department. "I'm very pleased to have succeeded once again in setting aside federal funds for La Grange Park for vital emergency operations equipment that will help keep residents safe and allow first responders to do their jobs," Lipinski said. "I'll be working to ensure that this money survives the legislative process in Washington and makes its way to the village." La Grange Park plans to use the money to replace a 30-year-old generator that provides power to its emergency communications center and portions of the fire department, both of which are housed in village hall. The new generator will ensure the communications center remains operational during power outages, helping officials to coordinate emergency personnel in the field. "I find it truly amazing the effort that Congressman Lipinski is putting forward to make our community a better place," La Grange Park Village President Dr. Jim Discipio said. "I've gotten two phone calls with good news from the Congressman in a week. It just shows you the hard work he's doing for the community." Earlier this week, Lipinski announced that he was able to secure $75,000 for La Grange Park for equipment that will improve first responders' ability to communicate with other agencies in cases requiring joint action. The equipment includes in-car video cameras that can stream to the Cook County Emergency Operations Center, in-car radios with extra channels, interoperable hand-held radios, and associated computer servers. (June 12, 2009) ###
06.08.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced his success in including $175,000 for the La Grange and La Grange Park police departments in a funding measure passed by the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related agencies. “I continue to work with local leaders and fight to bring home federal dollars that will enhance the safety and security of the residents of the 3rd District,” Lipinski said. “This money will purchase new equipment and technology that is essential to helping our brave police officers keep residents safe.” La Grange will receive $100,000 for a new generation of 9-1-1 call center technology that will display and answer calls received in a variety of formats, including text messages and streaming video. The system will also utilize digital mapping to precisely pinpoint the location of a caller. “Our village is once again indebted to Congressman Lipinski for his ardent devotion to serving the residents of his district, this time in the form of financial assistance for an enhanced 9-1-1 system,” La Grange Village President Elizabeth Asperger said. “From transit to technology issues, Congressman Lipinski works hard for us.” La Grange Park will receive $75,000 for equipment that will improve communications with other agencies in cases requiring joint action. The equipment includes in-car video cameras that can stream to the Cook County Emergency Operations Center, in-car radios with extra channels, interoperable hand-held radios and associated computer servers. “I just want to thank Congressman Lipinski for all his energy and enthusiasm in assisting the village and its residents,” said La Grange Park Village President Dr. Jim Discipio. “It’s a pleasure working with him.” The funding cimes through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. “I look forward to continuing to work with Village President Asperger and Village President Discipio, and to shepherding this money through the legislative process and ultimately to their villages,” Lipinski said. (June 8, 2009) ###
06.05.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined almost 100 of his colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama expressing serious concerns about General Motors' and Chrysler's decisions to close profitable dealerships across the country at a time when the economy continues to shed jobs. "GM and Chrysler are vital to the health of our economy, and I understand the need for them to cut costs and reinvent the way they do business," Lipinski said. "But I want to be certain there is a good reason for these dealerships to be forced to shut down. Many of these dealerships are vital to their communities and it is not clear why they are being closed. That's why I'm asking the president to request that the companies delay final action while his Auto Task Force closely examines why these dealerships were targeted for closure." A copy of the letter follows: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We are writing to express our concerns about General Motors' and Chrysler's decision to close profitable automobile dealerships across the country, and urge you to ask GM and Chrysler to delay final action on proposed closures pending further review of the decision to consolidate dealerships and the process by which Chrysler and GM selected the dealerships to close. Closing these dealerships will put over 100,000 jobs at risk at a time when our country is shedding jobs at an alarming rate. We also question the criteria being used to determine which dealerships should be closed and the fundamental fairness involved in this effort. It is our view that the market should make these decisions rather than leaving it up to the manufacturers whose poor leadership contributed to their demise. Furthermore, we believe car dealers will be key players in any effort to revive the American auto industry. We believe the dealerships are one of the auto industry's key sources of strength and the manufacturers should continue to honor their agreements and contracts. The dealerships, and their more than 1 million employees, form personal relationships with customers that often contribute to brand loyalty and will be key to General Motors' and Chrysler's recovery following this economic downturn. While we understand the desire to reduce the number of unprofitable dealerships, no one has yet sufficiently explained the need to close profitable dealerships. We recognize that efforts by your Auto Task Force prevented the total liquidation of General Motors and Chrysler, as well as their dealership networks. We commend your efforts to help these businesses survive these challenging economic times. However, we are concerned that manufacturers are closing profitable dealerships to circumvent current contracts which could require expensive buy-outs under normal conditions. We are also concerned about allegations that dealers that have previously stood up for their rights against the manufacturers are being targeted by these closures. We believe that the forced closures of profitable dealerships needs to be scrutinized by the Task Force to prevent additional future financial losses to General Motors and Chrysler and job losses across the United States. We may consider legislative proposals to ensure that dealers and their employees are treated fairly, and we look forward to your timely response. (June 5, 2009) ###
06.05.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced his success in including $125,000 for the Hickory Hills Police Department in a funding measure passed this week by the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies. “I continue to work with local leaders and fight to bring home federal dollars that will enhance the safety and security of the residents of the 3rd District,” Lipinski said. “This money will purchase new equipment and technology that is essential to helping our brave police officers keep residents safe.” Hickory Hills will receive $125,000 to replace outdated computers, communications equipment and back-up power supply equipment. “Money is tight for local governments these days, just like it is for everyone else,” Hickory Hills Mayor Mike Howley said. “These funds will help ensure that our department is working with reliable, state-of-the-art equipment.” The funding comes through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. “It is always a pleasure working with Mayor Howley, and I look forward to continuing to shepherd this money through the legislative process and ultimately to the city of Hickory Hills,” Lipinski said. (June 5, 2009) ###
06.04.2009	Congressman Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), co-chairman of the Congressional Poland Caucus, announced the introduction Thursday of a House resolution hailing the 20th anniversary of the Solidarity movement’s historic parliamentary victory of June 4, 1989. “Solidarity’s overwhelming defeat of the communist government at the polls marked a turning point not just for Poland but for the world,” said Lipinski, a cosponsor of the resolution. “By giving hope to millions of people who had suffered for decades under totalitarian communist regimes, the movement helped spark the popular revolts that soon led to the fall of communism throughout Eastern Europe.” The Solidarity movement formed in 1980 when striking shipyard workers banded together to create an independent democratic labor union. Rejecting the concept of class struggle, Solidarity proposed a nation united by the pursuit of justice, individual freedom and human dignity. But it wasn’t long before the government imposed martial law, banned Solidarity and imprisoned its members, forcing the movement underground. With the all-important support of Pope John Paul II, Solidarity reemerged as a potent advocate for freedom in 1988. The following year, it negotiated reforms that led to the election of June 4, when Solidarity posted a resounding victory that produced the first non-communist government in the Soviet Bloc in four decades. Solidarity’s open opposition to communism was not without precedent in Poland, as Poles launched revolutionary strikes against the government in 1956 and 1970 that were violently suppressed. “It is a great honor for me to formally acknowledge the heroism of the Polish people in liberating their nation from oppression and bringing to an end a long and brutal chapter in the history of the 20th Century,” Lipinski said. “Like millions of people of Polish ancestry throughout the world, I am immensely proud of the role Poland played in illuminating the path to freedom.” The resolution congratulates the Polish Republic on the 20th anniversary of the elections; recognizes that the election permitted the formation of the first non-communist and democratic government in Eastern Europe since 1948; recognizes that the election inaugurated the series of democratic revolutions that swept Eastern Europe in 1989; commends the Solidarity labor union for uniting Polish society in a common struggle for freedom; and commends the Polish people for their courage. (June 4, 2009) ###
06.04.2009	Today, Congressman Daniel Lipinski (IL-03) helped introduce a bipartisan bill in the House of Representatives that would return to taxpayers any revenue the federal government takes in as a result of the enactment of climate change legislation. The bill mandates any funds collected be distributed to the American people through tax cuts, increases in Social Security benefits, or other direct means. “Anything the government collects from polluters should go back to American taxpayers,” Lipinski said. “We should not get caught up in a fight over how to divvy up the money collected by a cap-and-trade scheme or carbon fee, especially at a time when middle class families and retirees are hurting.” Lipinski is cosponsoring the bill, known as the Consumer Assistance Rebate for Energy (CARE) Act, with Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Bob Inglis (R-SC), and Dave Reichert (R-WA). “It is important not only for the protection of our environment but also for our national security and economic security that we reduce the use of fossil fuels and promote energy independence,” Lipinski said. “But any costs associated with doing so should not have to be borne by seniors or hardworking Americans struggling in the midst of a terrible economy.” With Congress gearing up to vote on major climate change legislation, Congressman Lipinski helped introduce last month a bipartisan bill that offers a straightforward alternative to cap-and-trade. The Raise Wages, Cut Carbon Act of 2009 (H.R. 2380) would impose a fee on fossil fuels as they enter the economy at the mine mouth, oil refinery, or natural gas pipeline. The easy-to-implement proposal has the advantage of putting a predictable price on emissions, discouraging fossil fuel consumption, and stimulating the innovations needed to break America’s dependence on foreign oil. The bill refunds to taxpayers 100 percent of the revenues collected from polluters by reducing payroll taxes and increasing Social Security benefits. Cosponsoring the measure are Inglis and Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ). “The bill is a triple win: fighting oil addiction, reducing carbon emissions, and raising wages and Social Security benefits,” Lipinski said. “And perhaps most importantly, it is the first piece of legislation addressing energy independence and climate change that has bipartisan support, which will likely be needed to get a bill enacted into law.” However, with multiple climate change proposals under consideration, Lipinski wants to ensure that the revenues generated by any measure that ultimately becomes law will be transferred to taxpayers. Hence his support for the CARE act, which would apply to any climate change legislation enacted. (June 4, 2009) ###
06.03.2009	During a visit to the IBEW-NECA Technical Institute in Alsip last week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) congratulated the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 134 and the Electrical Contractors’ Association of Chicago for their success in training workers who are helping to lead America’s transition to a green economy. A leading proponent of renewable energy and one of the few members of Congress trained as an engineer, Lipinski took a keen interest in the institute’s program in photovoltaics – more commonly known as solar panels – during a presentation at the school. “I want to compliment IBEW and NECA on their foresight and their focus on training the workforce of today and the future,” Lipinski said. “As one of the cleanest power-generating technologies in existence, photovoltaics help reduce both air pollution and climate change, as well as increase American energy independence. And as an emerging high-tech industry, it will be a potent source of jobs for years to come.” The institute, jointly run by the contractors’ association and the union, offers its journeymen and apprentices a total of 26 weeks of training in every aspect of installing photovoltaic systems. Local 134 reports its members have installed approximately 3.5 megawatts worth of photovoltaic systems throughout the region. Even as the skies were overcast during Congressman Lipinski’s visit, a photovoltaic array at the institute was generating enough electricity to power an air-conditioning unit capable of cooling an average-sized home. The national market for solar energy is already worth about $2 billion, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. One estimate cited by the DOE puts the number of direct and indirect jobs that could be created by the solar power industry by 2020 at 150,000. And although many solar energy systems remain more expensive than traditional options, costs have fallen steadily. Veteran institute instructor Harold Ohde reports that in the last few years, interest in his photovoltaics class has grown rapidly, to the point that he expects to have around 100 people enrolled in his courses this fall. Meanwhile, more individuals, businesses and institutions are seeking to install solar panels, he said. “We’re starting to get more and more projects as time goes on,” Ohde said. “A lot of people are thinking about renewable energy, and competition has driven the price of everything way down.” Lipinski said that as the country works to grow its clean-energy sector, it is essential to promote promising technologies that can lead to the creation of good-paying jobs. “The solutions of tomorrow are being developed today, as the administrators, instructors, and students of the IBEW-NECA Technical Institute clearly understand,” he said. (June 3, 2009) ###
05.25.2009	
05.20.2009	Today Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that he is again cosponsoring legislation that would crack down on the illegal and unfair currency manipulation that has been increasing our trade deficit and hurting American workers. By keeping their currencies undervalued with respect to the U.S. dollar, countries like China have been effectively subsidizing their exports and putting a tariff on American imports. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2009 would put an end to this unfair practice. “For too long countries like China have gotten away with illegally subsidizing their exports,” said Lipinski. “Not only does this undercut our manufacturers here at home, but their currency manipulation makes it almost impossible for us to export goods back to China. Leveling the playing field for domestic production is one of the quickest ways to put Americans back to work.” The legislation, similar to bills that Lipinski has cosponsored previously, would crack down on countries that prevent market forces from determining the value of their currency. By keeping the value of their currency artificially low, these countries keep the price of their goods cheap, generating a generate trade imbalance. “Currency manipulation is another example of how supposed ‘free trade’ has only been a one-way street,” continued Lipinski. “For decades, Americans have played by the book while others have gamed the system. The result has been disastrous - our domestic manufacturing base has been weakened and good paying jobs in this country have been sent abroad. Our WTO trade agreements give us rights and we should use them to protect American workers and penalize unfair trade practices. This bill does just that.” The Currency Reform bill directs the Department of Commerce to develop a transparent protocol to measure exchange-rate misalignment with publicly available International Monetary Fund data. It further directs them to treat currency undervaluation as a WTO prohibited export-contingent subsidy, which would allow injured American industries to seek remedies, and it provides for anti-dumping duties on undervalued imported goods. All of these safeguards are implemented in a manner consistent with WTO rules. “Since 2001, the United States has lost almost 5 million manufacturing jobs,” said Bill Hickey, president of Lapham-Hickey Steel Corporation of Chicago, “Much of this is traceable to the kind of mercantilist policies that this bill is trying to stop. I am glad that Congressman Lipinski is fighting for American jobs and working to make our trade laws account for currency manipulation. This bill will help level the playing field for U.S. manufacturers and is a critical factor in our economic recovery.” As a member of the House Committee on Small Business, Representative Lipinski has been an advocate for American manufactures and workers. In addition to fighting to make “free trade” fair, Rep. Lipinski has been a leading proponent of the idea that the Federal Government should Buy American whenever possible. (May 20, 2009) ###
05.13.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), together with Reps. Bob Inglis (R-SC) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ), introduced the Raise Wages, Cut Carbon Act of 2009 (H.R. 2380). This landmark legislation is a straightforward approach to achieving American energy independence and combating global climate change while cutting taxes for all American workers and increasing Social Security benefits. This is the first bill addressing energy independence and climate change that has bipartisan support. “Everyone agrees that we need to break our addiction to oil because of the damage it causes to national security, economic security, and our environment,” said Lipinski. “But it is proving very difficult to get enough support for a bill in Congress. This bill offers a more straightforward approach than “cap-and-trade” proposals and also cuts taxes for all working Americans and increases Social Security benefits by making the polluters pay. “This bill is a triple win: fighting oil addiction, reducing carbon emissions, and raising wages and Social Security benefits,” continued Lipinski. “And perhaps most importantly, this is the first piece of legislation addressing energy independence and climate change that has bipartisan support which will likely be needed to get a bill enacted into law.” The bill is an alternative to the cap-and-trade proposals currently being considered in Congress. It puts a predictable price on carbon dioxide emissions, encouraging the reduction of fossil fuel consumption. But it refunds 100% of the revenues collected from polluters by reducing payroll taxes and increasing Social Security benefits. “This legislation is a significant step toward energy independence and environmental protection, and all of the money collected goes back to taxpayers,” added Lipinski. “In addition, American manufacturing jobs are protected with a tariff on goods imported from countries with lax environmental laws. And this approach differs from cap-and-trade because it does not create the opportunity for Wall Street manipulation that caused so many problems in the financial markets.” The measure has the advantage of providing predictable pricing over time to encourage deployment of clean energy technologies, and to stimulate the innovations needed to break America’s oil addiction and mitigate global climate change. A proposed carbon user fee of $15 per ton of CO2 would be applied in 2010, increasing to $100 by 2040, adjusted each year for inflation. The bill includes a clear schedule of rates, allowing businesses to plan accordingly. Fossil fuels would have a fee imposed as they enter the economy, at the mine mouth, the oil refinery, and the natural gas pipeline, making it easy to implement and minimizing administrative costs. (May 13, 2009) ###
04.30.2009	Yesterday the World Health Organization (WHO) raised its pandemic alert level to 5 - the second highest level - as the number of reported swine flu infections increased rapidly, including cases among students in the Chicago area. Today Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement: "It is clear that the spread of the H1N1 flu virus is accelerating, and while our public health system has responded admirably, there is more that we must do to mitigate the spread and impact of this virus. "While the CDC has done a good job thus far of detecting and reporting confirmed infections and distributing anti-viral drugs and protective equipment to all 50 states, I believe that the federal government should be doing more to help stop this contagion from spreading. I am particularly concerned that the Department of Homeland Security is not doing enough to protect our borders by being vigilant in stopping infected individuals from entering the country. "Closing schools where there are known or suspected infections is a good start; schools are great incubators for viruses. But the largest disease vector is clear: Over 2,500 Mexicans have been sickened and almost 600,000 people cross our southern border each day. Disturbingly, Mexican government has continually underreported the outbreak, and according to the New York Times they are officially reporting fewer than 10% of cases and deaths. "Simply questioning people at the border is not enough. We should adopt the common-sense public health precautions already implemented by countries like Japan, Greece, Taiwan, Argentina, Turkey and Israel. These steps include using quarantine inspectors and putting sick travelers under observation and deploying active detection technologies like thermal scanners. DHS should be working with the CDC to make sure our border agents have the resources and training they need to deal with this new threat. Simply put, DHS should take whatever steps are needed to stop swine flu carriers from entering our country. I believe the United States was too slow in issuing a travel warning earlier this week. Now, we must make sure that we act decisively to do all we can to stop outbreaks from spreading. "After a briefing yesterday by Secretary Sebelius of the Department of Health and Human Services, Secretary Napolitano of the Department of Homeland Security, and Dr. Anne Schuchat of the Centers for Disease Control, I am continuing to closely follow the developments and will continue to push for the actions I believe are necessary to help protect the American people from this potentially very serious threat." (April 30, 2009) ###
04.04.2009	Building Customer Service Capacity for Serving Customers with Disabilities Request: $50,000 The West Suburban Chamber of Commerce and Industry Foundation 9440 West Joliet Road Hodgkins, IL 60525 The funding would be used to develop programs that enhance understanding and capacity for service workers who interact with individuals with disabilities. This project proposes to fill a gap in the understanding and capacity that front line service employees have in dealing with persons with disabilities through the creation of informational and education materials. This would consist of a DVD training program on serving customers with disabilities that would be made widely available. *** Building Renovation Project for Senior Services, La Grange, IL Request: $355,000 Aging Care Connections (formerly SWSCOA) 111 West Harris Avenue La Grange, IL 60525 The funding would be for the environmentally friendly renovation of the existing senior services facility. Aging Care Connections (formerly SWSCOA) is the designated provider of Title III services of the Older Americans Act administered through the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on Aging. As a part of the national Aging Services Network, Aging Care Connections is the only organization in our service area selected to offer federal and state sponsored programs for older adults and their caregivers. Aging Care Connections has been offering federally funded services for seniors since 1974 and has consistently met the high standards required by the Administration on Aging, Illinois Department on Aging and the Area Agency on Aging (AgeOptions), as evidenced through program and fiscal compliance reviews on a regular basis. As the number of older adults continues to grow (and subsequently the number of adult children who are thrust into the role of caregiver), requests for assistance to the organization on how to manage care in the home continually increase on a daily basis. By 2030, there will be about 71.5 million older persons or one in every five Americans. The 85+ population is projected to increase to 6.1 million in 2010 and 7.3 million in 2020. In our local area, older adults and their families depend on Aging Care Connections to provide information, assistance, guidance and support for the myriad of issues facing an aging society. Investing taxpayer money in helping seniors to remain independent in their own homes is a much more cost effective way of providing care and an endorsement of our community's commitment to aging well. *** Catholic Charities Long Term Green Housing Request: $750,000 Catholic Charities Housing Development Corporation 721 North LaSalle Street Chicago, IL 60654 The funding is for the planning and construction of an advanced long-term skilled-care facility for seniors which would serve as a pilot project for the state of Illinois. Catholic Charities Housing Development Corporation has made a real contribution to the plan to provide affordable, safe, housing for seniors in Cook County, Illinois. The Catholic Charities Green House project would truly help people transform the lives of seniors and families of seniors who require long-term skilled -care in a residential facility. The pilot project would be a State model for long-term, skilled-care housing that will be replicated in other communities. *** Center for the Science of Animal Well-Being (C-SAW) Zoological Veterinary Medicine Professional Training Programs Request: $500,000 Chicago Zoological Society/Brookfield Zoo 3300 Golfview Road Brookfield, IL 60513 This request would help sustain and strengthen several innovative professional training programs for zoological and aquatic veterinary medicine. There is a national shortage of zoological veterinary professionals for employment at zoos and aquariums, government agencies, and/or research facilities. Chicago Zoological Society's C-SAW programs offer veterinary students innovative training programs and exposure to cutting edge veterinary medical practices - including high tech diagnostics and treatment. The advances made in this field by current and future professionals will improve veterinary care at the participating institutions; protect and preserve endangered species; and help advance understanding in controlling and preventing the spread of diseases like West Nile Virus, Chronic Wasting Disease, and other zoonotic diseases of interest to human health professionals as well as veterinarians. As zoos increasingly serve as a haven for a growing number of endangered species, qualified zoo veterinarians are of utmost importance. With more than almost 220 zoos and aquariums accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums in the United States, the demand for expertise in zoological medicine is enormous. This expertise is also in demand for wildlife medicine programs in parks and protected areas. There are few opportunities to gain hands-on experience with a vast array of mammals, birds, and reptiles, and such programs are highly competitive and limited. The Center for the Science of Animal Well-Being's Zoological Veterinary Medicine Professional Training Programs provide training for those who are entering the zoological veterinary science field, whether they become zoo or wildlife vets, academic researchers in comparative animal medicine and/or zoonotic disease as it relates to human health, or enter government service. *** City of Hickory Hills, Police Department Request: $125,000 City of Hickory Hills 8652 W. 95th Street Hickory Hills, IL 60457 The Hickory Hills Police Department's 9-1-1 Center provides a crucial link between citizens requesting police services, improves the management of critical incidents involving both man-made and natural disasters, and facilitates radio interoperability communications for first responders. Funds would be used to replace outdated computers, communication consoles, radio equipment, and necessary contingency back up power supply equipment. The equipment utilized in the Police Department's 9-1-1 Center helps to facilitate recommendations provided through the National Incident Management System. In the event of a natural or man made disaster this equipment would be essential to the operation of the City's Emergency Operation Center as part of the City's Disaster Plan. Technological improvements to 9-1-1 equipment will enhance the ability of first responders from multiple agencies to coordinate efforts and establish vital radio communications. This enhanced ability will provide safety and protection to all citizens affected by a disaster or critical incident. The addition of new equipment will also improve the efficiency of police methods that are utilized in providing protection and services to the community. *** City of Hickory Hills Wastewater Infrastructure Improvement Request: $500,000 City of Hickory Hills 8652 W. 95th Street Hickory Hills, IL 60457 This project would help to reduce sewer overflows into streets, public waterways, and commercial buildings. Sanitary sewers are designed to only carry wastewater from homes or businesses. Due to the aging, existing system, the infiltration of rainwater through deteriorated joints, broken sewers and cross connections add clear water to sewer systems, often filling the sanitary sewer systems to capacity. Once this happens, water will flow backward through the sanitary sewer pipe, flooding basements, and causing manholes to discharge releasing wastewater onto the street. The construction would consist of the repair and rehabilitation of sanitary sewers. Repair and rehabilitation can include a variety of methods, but generally this project will make use of existing video, performed by the City of Hickory Hills, that isolates sections of sewer in need of repair. The video tape will provide visual evidence of leaking joints, cracked clay sewer pipe, protruding taps, and illegal cross connections. Repair methods will consist of point repairs (isolated sections of sewer that are so badly cracked, they need to be replaced in their entirety) and cured in place sewer lining. The cured-in-place lining process involves inserting a resin-saturated flexible lining into the existing sewer. Air or water is forced into the tube, which causes it to fit tightly to the existing sewer walls. The resin hardens, completing the curing process. When the curing process is completed, a new pipe has been created that is free of cracks and holes that allow rainwater and roots to enter the sewer and cause operational problems such as stoppages and overflows. The inability of the existing sanitary sewer to contain raw sewage puts public health at risk and violates state and federal environmental regulations. Sanitary sewer overflows release wastewater and potential pathogens onto streets, into waterways, and basements increasing potential health risks. As wastewater overflows into creeks, rivers, lakes, and streams it contaminates all bodies of water fed by the waterways and all creatures/plants coming in contact with the polluted water. There are various costs associated with inflow and infiltration, including local cleanup to sanitary sewer system overflow a well as additional costs needed for wastewater treatment. Overflow costs are associated with road and waterway cleanup and the potential for fines if the overflow problem is not corrected. Additionally, sewer system backups into basements or households can result in litigation and potential liabilities for the responsible city or agency. Eventually, new homes or businesses may not be allowed to connect to the sanitary sewer system if the inflow and infiltration issues are not corrected, lowering housing values due to the inability to develop land for future growth. Inflow and infiltration costs water treatment facilities and consumers large amounts of money in operating expenses. All water entering a water treatment facility must be treated as wastewater causing an increase in operating costs proportional to the amount of clean water entering the sanitary sewer system due to inflow and infiltration. Costs associated with processing the added clean water from inflows and infiltration are eventually passed back to the consumer in the form of rate increases. By reducing inflow and infiltration capital and operating costs can be lowered. Minimizing inflow and infiltration can also increase the lifetime-capacity of a treatment facility and wastewater transportation system. *** Chicago Transit Hub (Circle Line - Ogden Streetcar), IL - Alternatives Analysis Request: $3,000,000 Chicago Transit Authority 567 W. Lake Chicago, IL 60661 The funding would be used towards completion of alternatives analysis for the Circle Line Project. As one of major transportation hubs in the United States, Chicago roadways are very congested. This project will alleviate some of that congestion by extending a successful rapid transit line to customers in an area lacking this kind of transit service. Funding for this project would be in accord with the FTA's support of locally planned and operated mass transit systems throughout the United States. The Chicago Transit Hub (Circle Line - Ogden Streetcar) Project, which is currently in Alternative Analysis, will connect the existing CTA Orange Line near Ashland with the existing Pink Line Cermak Branch near 18th Street. Also, the project will connect the CTA Red and Brown Lines near North/Clybourn with the existing CTA track, and structure near Lake/Paulina. The project will also add new CTA and Metra transfer stations along new and existing CTA tracks to the northwest, west, southwest, and south of Chicago's Central area. A new rail yard facility and rolling stock will also be added. This project has received previous appropriations of $6 million in FY2009 under the New Starts Section 5309, $3.9 million in FY2008 under the Alternative Analysis Section 5339, $1 million in FY2006 under the New Starts section 5309, $4.4 million in FY2004 under the Non-New Starts Section 5309, $27 million in FY2003 in Formula Funding section 5307. *** Cook County Environmental Infrastructure (COOK COUNTY, IL) Request: $1,000,000 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Chicago District) 111 N. Canal Street Chicago, IL 60606 The Cook County Environmental Infrastructure fund works to modernize, enhance, and improve Cook County's aging environmental infrastructure system. This project specifically provides technical planning, design and construction assistance to non-federal interests who have environmental infrastructure needs in Cook County, Illinois. Projects include the development and protection of water supply and waste water systems; combined sewer overflows; and remediation of adverse water quality impacts and storm water impacts to waste water systems. *** Countryside Street Repair Request: $500,000 City of Countryside 5550 East Avenue Countryside, IL 69525 The funding would be for the repair of various streets, including Kensington Avenue, 61st Street, 57th Street, as well as others. This street repair project will help improve the movement of traffic through the region, improve safety, and create good paying local jobs. Roads in good condition are an important contributor to economic development and are an important contributor to the local housing market. *** Diamond MEMS Sensors for Real-Time Sensing of Weaponized Pathogens Request: $2,500,000 Advanced Diamond Technologies, Inc. 429 B Weber Road # 286 Romeoville, IL 60446 The funding would be used to develop a wearable sensor to detect weaponized pathogens utilizing the unique properties of diamond. This project will address the two major problems with current systems used to detect weaponized chemical and biological pathogens. First, compact and reliable devices for first responders or warfighters to detect weaponized pathogens simply do not exist despite years of research and a clearly increasing need to protect these individuals. Second, pathogen-detecting sensor technologies that are currently available use materials that are inherently unstable which leads to unreliable operation. The unique properties of diamond can solve these problems. ADT's diamond technology has outstanding electrochemical properties, which, in addition to its other unique properties, translates into high-sensitivity for real-time detection. Diamond is also extremely hard, resistant to wear and chemically and biologically inert, providing a stable platform for detection devices that will not deteriorate over time or with repeated use. Success in this project would have enormous pay offs, and the societal benefits will be substantial-ranging from improved safety for our warfighters to improved response times in hazardous material or environmental situations-through rapid detection of airborne pathogens and chemicals. ADT, as a small business, would not be able to fund this project on its own. Federal funding will provide a critical infusion of resources, allowing ADT to adapt its unique technology to help defend our country against chemical or biological attack both at home and abroad. The purpose of the project is to develop a wearable sensor to detect weaponized pathogens utilizing the unique properties of diamond. ADT's patented diamond technology will be used as a platform to enable a new class of compact, wearable chemical and biological point sensors, with unprecedented sensitivity, stability, and reproducibility. These sensors would be extremely compact and capable of monitoring the presence of pathogen molecules in real time. The unique properties of ADT's diamond technology will overcome the limitations of current pathogen detection technologies. ADT will develop chemical and biological sensors that are scalable and can be integrated with emerging micro-technologies as well as embedded in fabrics. *** E-Beam Free Form Repair Qualification Request: $5,000,000 Sciaky, Inc. 4915 W 67th Street Chicago, IL 60638 The funding would be used to assist in enabling the widespread qualification and certification of EBFFF for cost efficient "repair of DOD weapon system components" and other military infrastructure Across the Department of Defense, the impact of corrosion and wear on DOD platforms, vehicles, weapons systems and support equipment is estimated to cost $10-$20 billion per year. Successful development of this program will help to enable the widespread qualification and certification of Electron Beam Free Form Fabrication (EBFFF) for repair of DOD weapon system components and the successful transfer of technology to DOD Organic Depots, weapon system OEMs, and Military Repair Service Centers. Successful implementation will ensure substantial cost savings for the DOD, as well as improved overhaul logistics through the elimination of expensive parts inventories, as well as platform downtime when waiting for new or replacement parts. A significant and growing portion of the US Defense Budget is currently allocated to the maintenance and overhaul of military equipment being used far beyond its expected service life. The inadequacy of traditional repair technologies often forces the military to dispose of worn or damaged components, which must then be replaced with expensive spare parts. In many cases, the original equipment manufacturer drawings are no longer available, making it difficult to locate replacement parts through the materiel supply chain, or directly with the weapon system manufacturer since many weapon systems remain in service far beyond their intended life. Using Electron Beam Free Form Fabrication (EBFFF) can reverse this trend. EBFFF is a next generation free form fabrication technology that has demonstrated that it can cost-effectively repair or replicate many high value weapon system components that would otherwise be scrapped. EBFFF can also form quality replacement parts at the site of the repair, and generate significant cost savings and supply chain logistics advantages. However, the dynamics of downsizing and budget constraints prevent the steps necessary for rapid deployment of EBFFF solutions within our military infrastructure. Funding of this project has the potential to significantly reduce cost associated with the repair and replacement of DOD platforms, vehicles, weapons systems. *** Emergency Generator Replacement Request: $150,000 Village of La Grange Park 447 N. Catherine Avenue La Grange Park, IL 60526 The funding would be used to replace a 30-year old generator that provides power to the emergency communications center and various portions of the fire department. Replacement of the existing generator with a new generator (and related equipment) would ensure reliable emergency power supply to crucial first responder functions and maintain communications during power outages. Police and Fire Departments are dispatched for the Village's communications center. Additionally, the communications center is the heart of the Village's capacity to communicate and maintain contact with first responders in the field. These funds will go directly to providing for the safety and security of the residents of La Grange Park and surrounding communities. *** Employment Opportunities Pre-Apprenticeship Program/ Small Business Development Program Request: $260,000 Hispanic American Construction Industry Association 901 W. Jackson Blvd. Suite 205 Chicago, IL 60607 The funding would be used to conduct a comprehensive employment and apprenticeship training for construction industry trade opportunities (Employment Opportunities Pre-Apprenticeship Program), as well as and skill development programs for small businesses and entrepreneurs (Small Business Development Program). The Employment Opportunities Pre-apprenticeship Training Program will include an eight week comprehensive review of the construction industry and will help participants determine which construction trade or apprenticeship program to pursue as a career. Primary construction trades will be emphasized during the course of the training. Industry professionals, including HACIA members will provide presentations and will be encouraged to consider qualified participants for future employment. Trade union representatives and vocational institution representatives will be encouraged to participate by conducting classes. With the Small Business Development Program (SBD), HACIA will offer customized training workshops to assist entrepreneurs and small businesses develop the necessary skills that will enable them to maintain or expand into new business markets. This program will deliver up-to-date management advice, training and information to help business owners make sound decisions and to assist potential owners in getting started on the right foot as they begin to build capacity to perform on the Prime level. The SBD Program will also address methodologies associated with Green Building and assist the contractors with the technical portion associated with the bidding and estimating of Green Building projects. These programs will enable individuals to develop the necessary skills to secure good-a paying job or expand their small business. *** Health and Physical Education Program Request: $160,000 Valentine Boys and Girls Club of Chicago 3400 South Emerald Chicago, IL 60616 The funding would be used to help prevent obesity and promote healthy development through physical fitness programs, sports activities and nutritional workshops for youth in Chicago. Obesity is a major health problem with both genetic and environmental causes among youth today. The Valentine Boys & Girls Clubs of Chicago promotes healthy development by fostering in youth a sense of competence, a sense of usefulness, and a sense of belonging. A daily fitness regime will be created for youth ages 6-18 which will consist of segments of exercise in the following areas. Aquatic: Learn to Swim, Swim Team, Underwater Hockey, CPR Training, and Life Guarding. Game Room: Billiards, Foosball, Ping Pong, and Board Games. Fitness Center: They will also instruct the youth in beginning and advanced strength training with free weights. Cardiovascular method training will be used on the treadmills, stationary bikes and rowing machines. Gymnasium: Aerobic exercise will also be introduced with the instruction of various sports such as Basketball, Volleyball, Football and Floor Hockey. Finally, a healthy nutrition will be instilled into the daily eating habits of the youth by offering health workshops. They are youth led in which our Keystone & Torch Club participants educates the youth on various topics such as "Eat to Live, Not Live to Eat," "Eating Disorders," and "Truth about Fast Foods." This program will reinforce the benefits of good exercise/fitness habits on growth, mental well-being and overall healthy lifestyles. *** HOFFMAN DAM, IL Request: $200,000 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Chicago District) 111 N. Canal Street Chicago, IL 60606 Funding would be used to move forward with PCA execution and design completion/next phase of this project. The project will alleviate the ill effects of three low-head dams along the Des Plaines River near the Villages of Riverside and Lyons, Illinois. These dams no longer serve their original purpose or create recreational pools and currently impede the migration of fish, impair water quality and have converted riverine habitat to stagnant reservoir habitat to stagnant reservoir habitat. Additionally, the dams annually create a safety hazard for river users resulting in fatal accidents of recreational boaters. The proposed project seeks to remove the Armitage and Fairbanks dams and to notch the Hofmann dam in order to restore riverine conditions. This project has moved through the feasibility report state (12/2006); the Project Cooperation Agreement is complete. Design and implementation were put on hold due to lack of Federal and non-federal funding. This project will advance the efforts to improve water quality in a highly urbanized area as well as improve safety to those users of the river as a recreational asset. This river was key in the expansion of the nation; restoring it will ensure its health long term. *** Illinois Energy Resources Center at the University of Illinois at Chicago Request: $2,000,000 University of Illinois at Chicago (Energy Resources Center / Mechanical and Industrial Engineering) 842 West Taylor Room 2039 ERF Chicago, IL 60607 The funding would be used expand the efforts of the Energy Resources Center at the University of Illinois at Chicago to provide unbiased, objective and comprehensive information and technical assistance on energy efficiency, renewable energy and sustainable economic development throughout the Midwest and fulfills a mandate explicitly stated in EPACT as a responsibility of the U.S. Department of Energy, which is not currently funded. The effort will assists in the implementation and installation of existing and new technologies to reducing energy costs, waste and pollution reduction. More importantly this effort will work with business, industrial, commercial and residential customers to encourage cost effective investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy capital projects. This effort will include specific information on: Energy Efficient Design Energy Assessments for Industrial and Institutional Clients Total Resource Management for Industrial Clients Combined Heat and Power Applications Energy Efficient Buildings and Indoor Air Quality Renewable and Alternative Energy Systems Advanced HVAC Research and Technology Development, and Tech Transfer Anaerobic Digesters and on Farm Clean Electricity Production Aggregation of Consumers and Bulk Energy Purchasing Efforts Residential Energy Efficiency Projects and Incentives LED and Other Advanced Lighting Technologies State, Utility, and Local Government energy efficiency incentive programs Market Transformation Programs USDOE, USEPA and USDA Energy programs, Incentives and Best Practices. Biofuels Information and Incentives Dissemination of Energy Research Outreach and educational programs on the importance of transforming non-food lingo-cellulosic raw materials such as switchgrass, popular trees, forest waste, agricultural residues and algae to renewable fuels. Dissemination of methods to improve the efficiency of solar cells. The College of Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago, through its Energy Resources Center as a part of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and affiliated Departments and Schools including the Departments of Chemical and Electrical and Computer Engineering, which has complimentary expertise and will also play a key role in the attaining the overall objectives of the proposed program has the capabilities and expertise to utilize these additional resources to greatly expand current efforts to promote the economic and environmental benefits of cost effective investments in proven and cutting edge energy efficiency and renewable technologies. The overall goal of this effort will be to accelerate the market transformation for proven energy saving products and investments, while encouraging the early adoption of new and developing technologies. Federal energy security, energy reliability, and economic and environmental concerns all dictate that the United States and its businesses and citizens strive to reduce energy usage, adopt cost effective renewable systems. In order to achieve this goal, citizens must have access to reliable, unbiased, and objective information. Increasing energy costs, spot shortages and supply concerns, and an increasingly volatile energy markets dictate a need for federal support for state, local and regional action plans. The USDOE, USEPA, the national labs and other federal and State entities have developed many effective tools and practices to assist in promoting these goal. This effort will advance these laudable federal goals by accelerating the tech transfer and adoption of these new technologies throughout the Midwest. Encouraging and supporting cost effective investments in energy capital improvements will create jobs, improve the local and regional economies, improve energy security, and improve the environment. A regional approach to providing necessary technical assistance and unbiased information is a prudent and effective use of federal funds. *** Illinois Nanotechnology Collaborative Request: $195,000 Illinois Science and Technology Coalition 200 East Randolph, Suite 2200 Chicago, IL 60601 The funding would support efforts of the Illinois Science and Technology Coalition to establish the Illinois Nanotechnology Collaborative (INC). The INC would break down barriers and establish new collaborative channels in the field of nanotechnology by: developing strategies to improve business access to nanotechnology infrastructure, promoting Illinois assets, and identifying policy changes that may benefit nanotechnology businesses. Each year, the federal government invests more than $1 billion in nanotechnology research and related activities. As Congress works to advance the National Nanotechnology Initiative Amendments Act of 2009 in order to strengthen federal nanotechnology policy, it is necessary at the state level to ensure that new pathways are forged to ensure federal resources translate to increased economic opportunity. This project seeks to accomplish this objective and will enhance the ability to start or grow nano-businesses in Illinois. According to the publication Small Times, Illinois is the number two state in the country when it comes to the dollar value of nanotechnology research. However, when it comes to the density of nanotechnology firms, Illinois is not even among the top 10 states. These facts point to the dramatic disconnect between research and commercial application. The outcome of this proposal will be a detailed blueprint on methods for enhancing collaboration in Illinois' nanotechnology community, including specific strategies to make it easier for small businesses to share infrastructure (thus reducing start-up costs) and enjoy greater access to the deep research infrastructure in the state (thus providing a greater return on federal investments). *** Justice-Willow Springs Water Commission Archer Avenue Construction and Pump Station Renovations Request: $500,000 Justice-Willow Springs Water Commission 7000 South Archer Avenue Justice, IL 60458 The funding would be used to purchase pumps and other upgrades which would provide clean, safe water to over 31,000 area residents. The existing 1.0 MG above ground reservoir was constructed in 1964 and will reach the end of its projected design life in 2014. Two (2) 1.0 MG underground reservoirs are to be constructed adjacent to the existing underground reservoirs on site. These new reservoirs will replace the existing 1 MG above ground reservoir and supplement existing system storage requirements. Adequate storage capacity is critical to municipal water systems in order to maintain supply during emergencies. As part of the pump station renovation, two (2) additional high service pumps will be added to those installed in 2009 as part of a modernization and replacement program. All of the pumps and motors in the older pump station building are in need of replacement or major rebuilding. These pumps are the sole source of water delivery for the Water Commission. The new pumps will be more energy efficient and will help meet peak demands of the system as well as provide the required redundancy in emergencies should other pumps fail. *** National Center for Food Safety and Technology, IL (Project and Language Request) Request: $3,800,000 Report Language: "The Committee recognizes the contributions which the National Center for Food Safety & Technology is making towards ensuring the security and safety of the nation's food supply. The Committee therefore directs the Food & Drug Administration to fund the National Center through their cooperative agreement at a level of not less than $3.8 million." Illinois Institute of Technology 10 West 33rd Street Chicago, IL 60616 The funding would be used to conduct FDA's food defense research initiative and additional research on recovery and prevention technology. NCFST is a food safety research center funded in part over the past 20 years through a cooperative agreement with the FDA's Center for Food Safety and Nutrition (CFSAN). NCFST provides a collaborative environment where scientists from industry, academia, and government pool their scientific expertise and institutional perspectives to proactively resolve food safety issues. The Center's research has been applied to science-based policy and production processes affecting a wide variety of food safety issues including E. coli in spinach, Salmonella in processed foods, Botulinum in canned foods, and chemical contaminants in foods. The work of the NCFST is critical to the safety and security of the U.S. food supply. This has been recognized as a basic federal government responsibility since at least the 1930s, when the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act was first enacted. For FY09, the base funding is specified at $2.077 million for the Food Center, which is a reduction from the prior year's level of 2.3 million and below the historically specified level of $3 million. An increase to $3.8 million is required to keep pace with the increased demand on the Center's food safety program in an ever more complex and changing global food supply. *** Northern Illinois University Transportation Energy Program Request: $1,000,000 Northern Illinois University 400 Altgeld Hall #300 DeKalb, IL 60115 Funding would be used to perform research to develop improved energy efficiencies in ground transportation working as an integrated team with Argonne, Northern Illinois University's College of Engineering and manufacturers (who are either OEMs or component suppliers to the industry). Project research topics will include: reduced engine friction through use of advanced technology surface treatment, improved rail/wheel friction through passive surface treatments, use of nanoparticles in cooling fluids to reduce radiator size and improve cooling efficiency, structural enhancements to reduce weight while improving recyclability and reducing greenhouse gases, and human factors studies to improve utilization of energy saving technologies. The project team will also extend the application of bio-based fuels in this area of transportation. A by-product of this project will be the training of U.S. students to become more effective engineers in terms of understanding how to design systems to be more energy efficient. Thus, as engineers move from the university into industry, they will be able to design more energy efficient products. Most of Northern Illinois University's engineering graduates become employed in transportation related industries. This represents the second year in which NIU is involved in this type of energy efficiency project. This past year, NIU faculty members started and made gains in the area of energy efficiencies related to the railroad industry, and the second year will allow the NIU researchers to develop new and more advanced approaches. *** Northwestern University Research Program in Molecular Electronics for Flash Memory Production Request: $4,000,000 Northwestern University 633 Clark Street Evanston, IL 60208 The funding would be used to establish an accelerated research program focusing on the development and use of ultra-high-density, three-dimensional memory chips for the fabrication of flash memory devices, to be deployed for surveillance activities and communication in the battlefield. Northwestern University seeks Congressional support for funding from the U.S. Army, in FY 2010, to establish an accelerated research program focusing on the development and use of ultra-high-density, three-dimensional memory chips for the fabrication of flash memory devices, to be deployed for surveillance activities and communication in the battlefield. The technology aims to develop devices with working parts no larger than a white blood cell. The program in Molecular Electronics for Flash Memory Production will pursue three significant goals that will result in several key military applications, including: Flash Memory Production: They propose to construct an ultra-dense flash memory, which can be written with the end of a 2-volt battery and then eradicated, at will, with light. Robust Molecular Memory: They are developing ultra-porous, highly crystalline, network materials that represent a revolutionary departure in fabrication, so as to render switchable components more robust and everlasting. Fundamental Investigations in Molecular Electronics: Their research will allow us to lay the fundamental groundwork for measuring the transport properties of novel molecular electronic components (e.g., switches, diodes, and resistors). Northwestern University, through its world-renowned International Institute of Nanotechnology (IIN) and recently established Center for Integrated NanoSystems (CINS), is a global leader in the design and fabrication of molecular memory and logic on a nanometer scale for use in communication devices. Over 15 start-up companies, with over $300 million of venture-capital investment, have emerged from IIN inventions, with numerous tools and technologies now finding their way into the marketplace in the U.S. NanoInk, an Illinois company that has raised over $50 million in venture capital, has commercialized a nanotechnological tool, called NScriptor, for doing Dip Pen Nanolithography (DPN). Nanosphere Inc. - another Illinois company spun from Northwestern's research - most recently raised $110 million in a public offering, and has commercialized a suite of low-cost, genetic-testing systems that will enable hospitals to test patients for ailments ranging from heart disease to cancer. An investment in molecular electronics for flash memory production will serve to broaden the scope and influence of the IIN in soldier nanotechnologies. *** Ogden Avenue Relief Sewer (Phase I from Gordon Park to La Grange Road) Request: $400,000 Village of La Grange 53 S. La Grange Road La Grange, IL 60525 The funding would be used for construction of a new sewer to redirect storm water from the existing combination sewer system flow to the deep tunnel - north of Hillgrove Avenue from Edgewood Avenue to Locust Avenue. This would help provide residential flooding relief and reduce overflow impacts. These improvements will reduce residential flooding impacts and redirect polluted wet weather flow to the Deep Tunnel. The construction of the Ogden Avenue Sewer will provide direct relief for approximately 800 households (including proposed new housing in the vicinity), several businesses, churches and schools. A best practice objective of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) is to reduce the amount of polluted wet weather flow that reaches the combined sewer overflow at Salt Creek. The Ogden Avenue Relief Sewer will redirect the polluted wet weather flow to the Deep Tunnel system, helping to provide residential flooding relief and reducing overflow impacts. *** Saint Xavier University Library and Learning Center Technology Improvements Request: $750,000 Saint Xavier University 3700 West 103rd Street Chicago, IL 60655 The funding would be used to purchase equipment, software and develop facilities for the New Media Center, Library Service and Digital Media Center Upgrades, Computer Lab and Mobile Lab Technologies, and Event Capture and Video Streaming. The library is the place where information becomes knowledge and where knowledge becomes wisdom. Built to serve several hundred students, the library today serves more than 5,300 undergraduate and graduate students across a breadth of disciplines never dreamed of by Saint Xavier's founders. While it has performed its function admirably for more than fifty years, the facility long ago reached its limitations on space for collection growth, for new and expanding resource functions, and for study needs. In its present form it cannot meet the demands of growing enrollment, expanding curriculum, or the very nature of today's information technology needs. This project would help meet these growing demands and will become a primary destination for intellectual, social and cultural purposes on the south side of Chicago. *** Saint Xavier University Science Center and Equipment and Instrumentation Initiative Request: $1,000,000 Saint Xavier University 3700 West 103rd Street Chicago, IL 60655 The funding would be used to renovate the existing Science Wing of the Ward Academic Center and provide contemporary and safe science laboratories, advanced classrooms and equipment, and improved research space. Despite the overall excellence of the education it provides, Saint Xavier University is constrained in the area of science education by its facilities and equipment, which are out of date and unable to capitalize on the changes in science and science educa
03.27.2009	U.S. House Transportation Committee Chairman Oberstar Hears About State Priorities Including the Central Avenue Bypass and the CREATE Rail Modernization Program Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) brought U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar (MN), Illinois Transportation Secretary Gary Hannig, other state and local elected officials, and business and civic leaders to Toyota Park in Bridgeview to discuss state and local transportation priorities, including the Central Avenue Bypass and the CREATE rail modernization program which includes local railroad underpasses. The meeting took place as Congress prepares to work on a new $500 billion federal transportation bill that could provide record levels of federal funding for Illinois surface transportation projects. Representative Lipinski is Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure which is charged with drafting the legislation. "It is always an honor to be able to bring Chairman Oberstar to the Third District and I am happy to welcome Illinois' new Secretary of Transportation Gary Hannig," said Rep. Lipinski. "The Chairman understands that from planes, to trains, to automobiles and trucks, Chicagoland is the transportation hub of the country and our transportation issues are America's transportation issues. Because of the Chairman's leadership and support in Congress we have made great strides in improving our local infrastructure and creating jobs, but there is much more to be done." Oberstar - who will lead Congress in writing the $500 billion highway and transit funding bill - heard from Secretary Hannig and other local leaders about priority transportation projects including the Central Avenue Bypass which will connect the thoroughfare between 65th Street and 72nd Street in Bedford Park and alleviate traffic congestion on Cicero and Harlem Avenues. Opening Central Avenue would not only help alleviate congestion and aid economic development, but would boost commuter access to Midway Airport and link major highways. Another priority project discussed was the CREATE program, a $1.5 billion public-private partnership aimed at reducing rail and road congestion in Chicagoland while improving safety and creating jobs. In the last major transportation funding bill Rep. Lipinski secured $100 million for the CREATE program, which includes numerous improvements which will benefit national and regional freight traffic, intercity rail passengers, and local road traffic. "The Central Avenue Bypass and the CREATE program are vitally important to the Third District, Chicagoland, the state, and the entire country" stated Lipinski. "We have a great opportunity in this federal highway and transit funding bill to provide money for not only these projects, but other local road improvements and mass transit upgrades. All of these are critical to alleviating congestion, creating jobs, and cutting our oil dependence. I am grateful that Chairman Oberstar - the leading architect of our nation's transportation policy - could participate in today's roundtable and hear from important leaders like Secretary Hannig, and I look forward to working closely with him as we write this vital legislation." (March 27, 2009) ###
03.26.2009	Money Will Fund Energy Efficiency and Conservation Programs Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that Berwyn will be receiving $440,300 in federal funds from the Department of Energy's Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program (EECBG). Lipinski helped create the EECBG Program - which supports energy efficiency, renewable energy, and conservation programs - through the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. "I am proud to have helped create this program and deliver these funds to our communities," said Lipinski, "The EECBG program will help our cities and towns make their buildings more efficient to heat and cool, and it will support renewable energy projects and energy efficient street lighting. Not only does this help local governments reduce their energy bills and greenhouse gas emissions but it also creates the jobs we need right now." The goal of the EECBG program is to reduce fossil fuel dependence in the transportation and building sectors. Participating cities can apply to fund a wide range of different programs, including developing a conservation plan, retrofitting buildings, deploying renewable energy systems in government buildings, installing energy efficient traffic signals, and bolstering recycling programs. "Everyone agrees that we need to use less foreign oil and be smarter about how we use energy in general," added Lipinski. "This program gives our local governments the tools and support they need to begin building a sustainable economy from the ground up." Cook County as a whole will receive over $4.5 million in EECB grants. In addition, towns with populations smaller than 35,000 people will be eligible for over $21 million in funds that will be administered through the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. (March 26, 2009) ###
03.26.2009	Money Will Fund Energy Efficiency and Conservation Programs Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that Oak Lawn will be receiving $495,900 in federal funds from the Department of Energy's Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program (EECBG). Lipinski helped create the EECBG Program - which supports energy efficiency, renewable energy, and conservation programs - through the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. "I am proud to have helped create this program and deliver these funds to our communities," said Lipinski, "The EECBG program will help our cities and towns make their buildings more efficient to heat and cool, and it will support renewable energy projects and energy efficient street lighting. Not only does this help local governments reduce their energy bills and greenhouse gas emissions but it also creates the jobs we need right now." The goal of the EECBG program is to reduce fossil fuel dependence in the transportation and building sectors. Participating cities can apply to fund a wide range of different programs, including developing a conservation plan, retrofitting buildings, deploying renewable energy systems in government buildings, installing energy efficient traffic signals, and bolstering recycling programs. "Everyone agrees that we need to use less foreign oil and be smarter about how we use energy in general," added Lipinski. "This program gives our local governments the tools and support they need to begin building a sustainable economy from the ground up." Cook County as a whole will receive over $4.5 million in EECB grants. In addition, towns with populations smaller than 35,000 people will be eligible for over $21 million in funds that will be administered through the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. (March 26, 2009) ###
03.17.2009	"The recent revelations that AIG - recipient of over $160 billion in taxpayer-funded bailout money - has funneled over $55 billion to banks overseas and paid $220 million in executive bonuses are appalling, but should come as no surprise to anyone who read the bailout legislation. Loopholes in the faulty $700 billion Wall Street bailout bill have led to these predictable abuses of taxpayer funds by AIG and others. "Last Fall I agreed that we needed to boost the economy by getting banks to start lending money again to qualified individuals and small businesses, but I opposed the bailout legislation because I believed that the $700 billion bill was full of loopholes and was not the right solution to our ailing financial system. I voted against the initial bailout bill that failed in the House, I voted against the revised bill that passed even though it did not fix the loopholes, and then in January I voted in favor of the failed attempt to stop the Treasury from releasing the second $350 billion. "Unfortunately, since the bailout was passed lending has not increased, the stock market has dropped 33%, and many of the loopholes in the bill have been exploited to the detriment of American taxpayers." There were seven major loopholes in the bailout legislation that Congressman Lipinski pointed out in October when explaining why he opposed the bill. Below is the list of objections that Lipinski laid out (shown in italics) along with an update on the current situation as it pertains to each of these. First, the legislation was a $700 billion blank check to the financial industry with no real accountability, no real oversight, and no real reform. The bailout proved to be a blank check and the Treasury Department has refused to even tell us where most of the money has gone. Despite public outcry, Wall Street firms continue to abuse the TARP program and take advantage of taxpayer funds with no recourse by the Treasury. Second, the $700 billion bailout bill would only drive American taxpayers into even more debt with little chance of recovering taxpayer dollars. America's debt has grown significantly since October, fast approaching $10 trillion, but since the problems that were intended to be fixed by the bailout still remain and we don't even know where the money went, it is even more doubtful today that taxpayers will be repaid. Third, I am deeply concerned that American taxpayer dollars will wind up bailing out foreign banks. Since the Treasury Department will not tell us who the money has been given to, we know very little about where it has gone. This week, AIG disclosed that it has awarded over $55 billion in American taxpayer funds to foreign banks, including $11.9 billion to Societe Generale, France's third largest bank, $11.8 billion to Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest financial institution, and $8.5 billion to Barclays PLC, headquartered in England. While I object to the way taxpayer funds were disbursed to Wall Street in general, it is even worse to see these dollars go to foreign banks. Fourth, the multimillionaire Wall Street CEOs who created this crisis are not being held accountable. There is nothing in the bill that would put an iron-clad prohibition to ensure that tax dollars will not serve to further enrich the multimillionaire executives who drove these financial institutions into the ground. More and more stories continue to come out about executives receiving hefty bonuses and taking expensive trips on the taxpayer's dime. Just this week, AIG had the audacity to pay out over $220 million in so-called ‘retention awards' -- bonuses -- to the very people who created and sold the toxic assets that precipitated the banking downfall. Furthermore, last year Wall Street paid $18.4 billion to executives of failing financial companies. Recoupment of these disbursements will be difficult because they were not forbidden by the bailout legislation, but the Administration and Congress must do everything possible to get these taxpayer dollars back. Fifth, the bill did not require any real reform to the broken regulatory system which did not prevent the current financial crisis and probably helped create it. Any legislation aiding the financial industry should have revamped and overhauled the regulatory system that governs this industry. Five and a half months after the bailout, a fix of the broken regulatory system has not even started. Yet government officials continue to dump billions in taxpayer funds into the broken system. Sixth, the legislation does not include real oversight with real teeth. Very little is known about where the money has gone, much less any real oversight into preventing waste, fraud, and abuse. Congress entrusted the TARP Oversight Board to oversee the program and help address these programs. I commend the Board for their hard work, diligence and insight into the TARP program; unfortunately, their recommendations are just that, recommendations. Little authority was given to the Board or the government to stop this behavior. And because of that, financial institutions have taken advantage of the program. Seventh, I am deeply concerned that $700 billion of taxpayer dollars will be at risk with potentially little or no return on the investment of American taxpayer dollars. Although there has been an attempt to get something of value in return for some of the bailout money, the terms that the Treasury Department has negotiated do not provide anywhere near the same rate of return for taxpayers as has been received by private investors such as Warren Buffet. These unequal terms were negotiated without input from Congress. "Americans continue to suffer in these difficult economic times, and more needs to be done to help middle class workers and retirees," said Lipinski. "Millions of Americans have lost their jobs since the recession began, over 510,000 in Illinois alone. We should be doing more to help the lifeblood of the American economy, the middle class, and less to reward already rich Wall Street executives." (March 17, 2009) ###
03.16.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was joined by North Riverside Mayor Richard Scheck, local officials, and railroad representatives to announce an agreement for a quiet zone in North Riverside, Riverside, and Berwyn. As Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Lipinski worked with Canadian National (CN) Railway to fund the two most significant upgrades needed to create this quiet zone. "Idling trains, blocked crossings, and train whistles at all hours of the day and night have been a fact of life for generations of area residents," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I grew up less than a hundred yards from railroad tracks, and I know all too well the inconveniences that can be caused by trains. "I was happy to sit down with CN and local elected officials to work out a way to create this quiet zone that will limit train noise in North Riverside, Riverside, and Berwyn," said Rep. Lipinski. "This quiet zone, along with CN's planned reduction in the number of trains on this line, will greatly improve the quality of life in these communities. I am proud to have supported CN's acquisition of the EJ&E Railway that will facilitate train reductions here and in many other congested communities." The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) requires that locomotive horns be sounded at public highway-rail grade crossings, but communities meeting specific safety measures can establish quiet zones that ban the sounding of train horns at grade crossings. In order to establish a quiet zone in parts of North Riverside, Riverside, and Berwyn, constant warning timing devices must be installed at Des Plaines and Hainesworth Avenues. "At CN, we are committed to providing the remainder of funding necessary for the grade crossing safety improvements and upgrades at these two rail crossings in North Riverside to enable this corridor to qualify under FRA regulations as a quiet zone" said CN spokesman Kevin Souice. "Congressman Lipinski has been a real leader on this and other transportation issues. We commend his efforts to improve the quality of life for his constituents and strengthen America's transportation network." "After years of North Riverside residents trying to establish a quiet zone, Congressman Lipinski was the one who went out and worked with CN to make this possible," said North Riverside Mayor Richard Scheck. "As I prepare to leave office, I believe this is one of my proudest achievements in public service and one that will have a lasting impact on the residents of North Riverside. I am grateful we have a congressman like Dan Lipinski looking out for us." For live coverage from CLTV, http://cltv.trb.com/video/?autoStart=true&topVideoCatNo=default&clipId=3552792 (March 16, 2009) ###
03.11.2009	Today, President Obama signed into law the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act which contains approximately $6.5 million for local projects secured by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), including money for the Village of Forest Park. "I am happy to be bringing money home to aid the Forest Park Police in continuing their fine service," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I worked closely with local leaders and elected officials to identify the needs of communities across the Third Congressional District, and I am pleased to bring back a significant amount of money for worthwhile projects that will have a direct impact on the daily lives of local area residents." The FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act includes funding for several projects requested by Rep. Lipinski, including: $100,000 for the Village of Forest Park Police Department to install and upgrade law enforcement equipment and technology "In these pressing economic times, it's great to have an advocate like Congressman Lipinski in Washington to work on behalf the people of Forest Park," stated Forest Park Mayor Anthony Calderone. "This grant will allow the Village to make necessary upgrades to our public safety department and will unquestionably lead to better, more effective law enforcement. On behalf of the residents of Forest Park, we are very appreciative of the work the Congressman has done to obtain this grant for our community." (March 11, 2009) ###
03.11.2009	Today, President Obama signed into law the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 OmnibusAppropriations Act which contains approximately $6.5 million for local projects secured by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), including money for projects in Bridgeview, Justice, and Summit. "I am happy to be bringing money home that will aid police in doing their job, enhance public transportation, and help protect America's food safety," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I worked closely with local leaders and elected officials to identify the needs of communities across the Third Congressional District, and I am pleased to bring back a significant amount of money for worthwhile projects that will have a direct impact on the daily lives of local area residents." The FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act includes funding for several projects requested by Rep. Lipinski, including: $100,000 for the Village of Justice Police Department to acquire new portable radio devices $2,077,000 for the National Center for Food Safety & Technology in Summit - run by the Illinois Institute of Technology - to conduct food safety research $475,000 for Pace Suburban Bus to construct a new transit center serving Toyota Park in Bridgeview "This grant obtained by Congressman Lipinski is vital for the security of the Village of Justice," stated Justice Mayor Kris Wasowicz. "These funds will allow us to modernize our police department and improve overall security for the people of Justice. I am extremely pleased with this grant and with the work of the Congressman to ensure that the Village of Justice continues its longstanding tradition of safety and prosperity." "At a time of great peril for both the economy and the environment, Representative Lipinski understands public transit improvements help address both concerns, and make it more affordable for local families to access jobs, shopping, and entertainment," said Bridgeview Mayor Steve Landek. "Toyota Park already enjoys easy access from I-55, I-294 and the CTA Orange Line, and we're delighted that we will now serve as a Pace hub as well." (March 11, 2009) ###
03.05.2009	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, helped the Committee approve H.R. 915, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2009. This legislation includes a number of provisions written by Congressman Lipinski to protect consumers, taxpayers, and the environment. This action clears the way for the bill to be considered by the full House of Representatives. "This long overdue bill will ensure that America's air transportation system remains the finest and safest in the world," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I am proud to have been able to add five provisions that will protect passengers, taxpayers, and the environment." H.R. 915 provides $16.2 billion for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP), $13.4 billion for FAA Facilities and Equipment (F&E), $38.9 billion for FAA Operations, and $1.35 billion for Research, Engineering, and Development (RE&D) over four years. The bill also contains several key initiatives authored by Rep. Lipinski. These provisions will: Hold Airlines Accountable for Delayed Bags - Since most passengers are now charged a fee to check a bag, they have a right to expect better performance from airlines. This provision requires the GAO to examine baggage delays and make recommendations for mandatory compensation for passengers. Require Airports to Consider the Implementation of Recycling Programs - This provision says all airports must examine the implementation of a recycling program and clarifies that recycling plans are eligible for federal funding. Establish a Federal Research Center to Develop Alternative Jet Fuel - FAA Transportation Centers of Excellence provide research through partnerships between the FAA, universities, industry and state and local governments. This provision creates a Center to develop jet fuel from alternative sources, such as natural gas, biomass, ethanol, butanol, and hydrogen. Fund Research to Eliminate the Use of Lead in Aviation Gas - Piston aircraft still use leaded aviation gasoline, or avgas, which contains four times the lead found in the already-banned leaded automotive fuel.This provision authorizes $3 million to develop, test, and approve an economical, unleaded avgas. Require An Open, Competitive Process for Airport Projects - Requires that the QBS process be used for awarding airport project contracts to make sure airline passenger taxes are spent efficiently. "As an Aviation Subcommittee member and someone who flies almost weekly, I am very aware of critical aviation issues, especially the concerns of passengers," continued Lipinski. "This bill will help improve American aviation, and my initiatives will make air travel better for passengers and for the environment." (March 5, 2009) ###
03.02.2009	Congressman's effort to establish weekend service pays off Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was joined by transit operators, numerous elected officials, and railroad representatives to announce the success of the congressman's exhaustive effort to bring weekend train service to Metra's SouthWest Service Line. The highly desired weekend service will begin on March 21, 2009. As Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Lipinski initiated and coordinated the negotiations that made this expanded service a reality. Representative Lipinski was joined by Phil Pagano, Executive Director of Metra; Carole Doris, Metra Board Chairman; Judy Baar Topinka, Regional Transit Authority (RTA) Board Member; Mayor Gene Siegel of Chicago Ridge; Mayor Ed Guzdziol of Worth; and many other local officials. The SouthWest Service runs from Chicago to Manhattan with stops in communities such as Ashburn, Wrightwood, Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, Palos Heights, and Palos Park. "Today we mark a historic moment in the history of the SouthWest Service Line and all the communities along the line," said Rep. Lipinski. "Countless residents of these communities as well as elected officials from Manhattan to Wrightwood had come to me about the need for weekend service. Many viewed weekend trains on SouthWest Service as only a dream. But - as planned and promised - that dream is coming true in less than three weeks. "Whether someone is going to work on the weekend or a family is going out for a day of fun, this will be very beneficial, especially in these tough economic times," continued Lipinski. "This will also help communities along the line to bring people to destinations in their towns, like the Oak Lawn Children's Museum. "I was proud bring together the relevant stakeholders, including Metra and the freight railroads, to sit down and hammer out the details of making this expanded service happen," stated Rep. Lipinski. "Without their willingness to come to the table and work to find solutions, weekend service simply would not have been possible. And, while this initial expanded service has started as demonstration project to test ridership, I have no doubt that if you run it, they will come." In July, Congressman Lipinski convened a high-level meeting that brought together Metra, RTA, local elected officials, and the freight railroads to look for options and solutions to bring weekend trains to the SouthWest Service Line. As a result of that initial meeting, Metra agreed to develop a proposal for a demonstration project to run weekend trains. In October, Lipinski joined Metra and RTA to announce a $680,000 grant to fund this initial weekend train service. Starting March 21, 2009, Metra will begin to implement weekend service with three inbound and three outbound Saturday trains. Weekend train schedules for SouthWest Service will be made available at www.metrarail.com. "In 2006 we expanded service on the Southwest Service Line" said Metra Chairman Carole Doris. "While that expansion did not include weekend service, we have heard from many riders and communities that weekend service is very much in demand. We are grateful to Congressman Lipinski for securing funding to make this project happen." "The RTA was pleased to help fund the new Saturday Metra SouthWest Service through the Innovation, Coordination and Enhancement Program, and we thank Congressman Lipinski for his strong leadership for this initiative and his support for mass transit in general," stated RTA Board Member Judy Baar Topinka. "The service will help meet rapidly increasing transit demands in the suburbs while offering a more environmentally friendly travel alternative." "Weekend service is going to be great for Chicago Ridge and the entire region, and I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for all his work on this issue," said Mayor Gene Siegel of Chicago Ridge. "After hearing many others talk about getting weekend trains, Dan Lipinski went out and got it done. Congressman Lipinski continues to be a leader fighting and winning for our communities" added Mayor Ed Guzdziol of Worth. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Lipinski is tasked with working to formulate national transportation policy and has been a tireless advocate for expanding local access to mass transit. This year, the Committee intends to reauthorize a $286.5 billion highway and transit funding bill, which provides billions of dollars to Illinois and local transit agencies like Metra, CTA, and Pace for road and transit funding. (March 2, 2009) ###
03.01.2009	Greetings High School Students, Parents and Teachers! I am pleased to announce the 2009 Congressional Art Competition for Illinois' 3rd Congressional District. This competition is open to artists in grades 9 through 12 who would like their submitted artwork to be the winning piece that is displayed in the Cannon tunnel for the visitors to the United States Capitol to view. One piece of artwork will be selected to represent the Third District and will be showcased in the Capitol representing the outstanding artistic talents from young artists from across the United States. Artwork must be received in my Chicago District office located at 6245 South Archer Avenue no later than Friday May 1, 2009. The winning artwork will be announced in May and the piece will be transferred to Washington, D.C. for display in June 2009. For information regarding rules and guidelines for the Art Competition please call Joe Bonomo at (312) 886-0481. To be considered, a student release form must be filled out and signed along with an adhesive label to the back of the artwork that is submitted by May 1st. A copy of the release form along with the general guidelines for the artwork and the framing requirements can be found by clicking above. The 2009 Congressional Art Competition Artwork can be submitted in person to Joe Bonomo, the Special Events Coordinator in Congressman Dan Lipinski's office located at 6245 South Archer Avenue, Chicago, IL 60638 I look forward to seeing the great talent of the students in the Third Congressional District. (March 1, 2009) ###
03.01.2009	Today, President Obama signed into law the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act which contains approximately $6.5 million for local projects secured by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), including money for projects in Chicago Ridge and Oak Lawn. "I am happy to be bringing money home that will aid police in doing their job, expand access to educational programs for area youth, and help provide counseling services to local residents," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I worked closely with local leaders and elected officials to identify the needs of communities across the Third Congressional District, and I am pleased to bring back a significant amount of money for worthwhile projects that will have a direct impact on the daily lives of local area residents." The FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act includes funding for several projects requested by Rep. Lipinski, including: $100,000 for the Village of Chicago Ridge Police Department to upgrade law enforcementequipment, software, and technology $190,000 for the Children's Museum in Oak Lawn to provide educational programs $285,000 for Oak Lawn Family Service to provide counseling services to area residents "I would like to thank Congressman Lipinski for all his hard work in securing this important funding for the Village of Chicago Ridge," said Chicago Ridge Mayor Gene Siegel (pictured at left). "These funds are going to make our community safer, and I'm proud that Congressman Lipinski echoes my priority of providing for the safety and security of the citizens of Chicago Ridge." "The Children's Museum in Oak Lawn appreciates Congressman Dan Lipinski's support in our Explore and Soar programming," stated Adam Woodworth, Executive Director of the Children's Museum in Oak Lawn. "This funding will be critical in providing educational, hands-on experiences for children and their families. The Children's Museum in Oak Lawn utilizes the Illinois Learning Standards in exhibit and program creation. These are the same standards the that Illinois State Board of Education requires Illinois Schools to follow when developing local curriculum. We appreciate the confidence Congressman Dan Lipinski has in the work we do." (March 11, 2009) ###
02.25.2009	House Passes FY2009 Appropriations Bill Today, the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act which contains approximately $6.5 million for local projects requested by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03). "This federal funding will help enhance public safety, improve our environment, invest in new technologies, and expand access to educational and vocational services," stated Rep. Lipinski. "Some people complain about ‘earmarks,' but I am proud of what these projects will do and the opportunities they will create locally. Because Congress cut the number and amount of ‘earmarks' this year, I am especially pleased to bring back a significant amount of money for worthwhile projects that will improve the daily lives of area residents. I look forward to the legislation's timely consideration in the Senate and final approval by the President." The FY2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following projects requested by Rep. Lipinski: $100,000 for the Village of Chicago Ridge Police Department to upgrade law enforcement equipment, software, and technology $100,000 for the Village of Forest Park Police Department to install and upgrade law enforcement equipment and technology $100,000 for the Village of Justice Police Department to acquire new portable radio devices $200,000 for independent radio dispatch stations in Cook County, which would enhance communications between local villages and municipalities during emergencies $2,077,000 for the National Center for Food Safety & Technology in Summit - run by the Illinois Institute of Technology - to conduct food safety technology research $120,000 for the Cook County Environmental Infrastructure Fund to make local environmental improvements and boost water development $411,000 to continue a feasibility study of the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River, to address problems of odor and water quality issues $951,500 for the Center for Catalysis and Surface Science at Northwestern University to research and develop clean energy alternatives $951,500 for Northwestern University to study and develop breakthrough imaging technology, which would improve drug delivery, cancer therapies, gene delivery, and gene silencing $165,072 for Seguin Services to provide employment and vocational training services for persons with disabilities $143,000 for Catholic Charities in Chicago to provide outreach and employment training services for homeless veterans. $190,000 for the Children's Museum in Oak Lawn to provide educational programs for area children. $285,000 for Oak Lawn Family Service to provide counseling services to area residents $190,000 for the Chicago Park District to renovate and rehabilitate a park/playground in the Mt. Greenwood area $475,000 for Pace Suburban Bus to construct a new transit center servicing Toyota Park in Bridgeview (February 25, 2009) ###
02.20.2009	Urges Renewed Attention to Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Education Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) honored the 18th Annual National Engineers Week (February 15-21) by introducing H. Res.117, Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Engineers Week. Lipinski, Chairman of the Research and Science Education Subcommittee of the House Science and Technology Committee, led the House of Representatives in unanimously passing the resolution last week. The purpose of National Engineers Week is to educate and engage young people regarding careers in engineering, while also fostering public awareness about the vital contributions made by engineers to our nation. Activities include the Future City Competition, Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day, and the FIRST Robotics Competition. "Engineers have built bridges and ships to carry people and goods across water, railways to carry products and passengers across continents, and the internet to carry information around the world," said Lipinski. "We need the innovative power of engineers more than ever to confront the new challenges before us. They will help keep our nation at the forefront of technology and innovation, increase the number of good American jobs, and help us build the bridge to the new energy economy and American energy independence." The National Academy of Science report Rising Above the Gathering Storm raised serious questions about the United States' future technological competitiveness and emphasized the challenges we face in "plugging the leaky pipeline" of students and teachers in science and mathematics fields. There are currently more than 2 million engineers working in the United States, but about 46% of all engineering jobs could become vacant by 2012 as the aging workforce reaches retirement. As an engineer by training, Rep. Lipinski has pushed for improvements in science, technology, engineering and mathematics education throughout his career. "I remember going to the Museum of Science and Industry as a child where the exhibits excited and captivated me, motivating me to study science and math and become an engineer," Lipinski recalled. "One of the main purposes of National Engineers Week is to make science, technology, and engineering come alive for kids and encourage them to pursue careers in these fields. I applaud all engineers for what they contribute to our nation, and I especially want to thank everyone involved in the various activities of this week that help to inspire the engineers of tomorrow who will devise technological solutions to the many problems we face." (February 20, 2009) ###
02.17.2009	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today announced the release of a preliminary evaluation study conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that identified 20 potential alternative sites that could replace the Lucas-Berg Confined Placement Facility (CPF) in Worth. A substitute site would prevent the dumping of dredged materials from the Cal-Sag Channel at Lucas-Berg. As Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which has legislative jurisdiction over the Army Corps of Engineers, Lipinski successfully worked to authorize and secure a $100,000 grant to fund this study. "This is a very good day for the residents of the Village of Worth and all of the communities close to the Lucas-Berg Pit," said Rep. Lipinski. "This study by the Army Corps has identified - for the first time - alternatives to using the Lucas-Berg site. Much more work needs to be done, but the fact that there are 20 potential alternatives gives us hope for the future." "Representative Lipinski's continued effort to help prevent the dumping of dredged materials in Lucas-Berg pit is greatly appreciated and shows his deep concern for the health and safety of Worth residents," said Village President Ed Guzdziol. "Congressman Lipinski's persistence in working to secure the funding that has helped to identify alternative placement sites has greatly aided our fight and has made the future possibilities for a positive outcome much more promising." The Army Corps' preliminary evaluation identified 41 areas as potential alternative CPF sites in an area spanning south of Joliet, IL up to Wisconsin, Indiana, and Michigan. Twenty-one of these sites have met initial screening criteria. Over the next few years, the Army Corps will continue to evaluate all of these alternatives before coming to a final decision on the placement dredged materials from the Cal-Sag Channel. "The Lucas-Berg pit is located in the middle of a densely populated area, and the potential placement of dredged materials in this community raises serious concerns," stated Lipinski. "That is why I will continue to work with Mayor Guzdziol to fight the dumping of dredged materials in Lucas-Berg. This study is a critical step, and I commend the Army Corps of Engineers Rock Island District for their work on this preliminary evaluation." (February 17, 2009) ###
02.12.2009	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Res. 117, which supports the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week, by a vote of 422 to 0. The resolution was introduced by the Research and Science Education Subcommittee Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), who holds engineering degrees from Northwestern University and Stanford University. National Engineers Week is February 15-21 2009. Today, the House affirmed that it: supports the goals and ideals of National Engineers Week, to increase understanding of and interest in engineering and technology careers and to promote literacy in math and science; and will work with the engineering community to make sure that the creativity and contribution of that community can be expressed through research, development, standardization, and innovation. "Engineers play an important role in our society in helping to meet many of technological challenges we face, and it is important that we recognize and celebrate that role," said House Committee on Science and Technology Chairman Bart Gordon (D-TN). "Engineers have played a crucial role in our economic growth, especially their role helping to span the gap between scientific discovery and commercial products. Economic estimate that half of our growth in GDP over the past 50 years is related to the development and adoption of new technologies. Having a strong national community of engineers will be a key factor in our nation's ability to reverse the economic downturn and create the jobs and products of the future." "Engineers have built bridges and ships to carry people and goods across water, railways to carry products and passengers across continents, and the internet to carry information around the world," said Lipinski. "We need the innovative power of engineers more than ever to confront the new challenges before us. They will help us build the bridge to the new energy economy and American energy independence." National Engineers Week has grown into a formal coalition of more than 70 engineering, education, and cultural societies, and more than 50 major corporations and government agencies. Its goal is to raise public awareness of the significant, positive contributions to society by engineers, and to encourage young students to see themselves as possible future engineers. The 2005 National Academy of Science report Rising Above the Gathering Storm highlighted that fewer students are focusing on engineering in college at a time when increasing numbers of today's engineers are nearing retirement. Celebrations such as National Engineers Week are an important part of highlighting the importance of engineers, and inspiring more students to think about pursing a career in engineering. http://science.house.gov/press/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=2357 (February 12, 2009) ###
02.11.2009	New Role as Chairman Places Lipinski in Key Position to Prepare for the Challenges of Tomorrow Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has been elected by his colleagues to serve as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education on the House Science and Technology Committee. The Subcommittee has jurisdiction over important science and technology issues and federal agencies, such as the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), the National Science Foundation (NSF), math, science and engineering education, university research and infrastructure policy, biomedical research and development, and geological, biological and life sciences research. "Innovation is the engine that drives our economy to keep America competitive in an increasingly competitive global economy," stated Lipinski. "Federal investments in research and development are investments in our country's future. We must recognize the unique role that NSF funding plays in increasing economic growth in our nation and providing a means for America to compete successfully with other countries. We must make sure America continues to lead the world in the basic research needed for the next generation of energy, health care, and transportation technologies. We need to make sure that American breakthroughs lead to American jobs, and that our workers have the tools they need to succeed in our ever changing world." As Subcommittee Chairman, Rep. Lipinski will tackle an ambitious legislative agenda, including the reauthorization of the NSF. The NSF serves as the leading federal agency for scientific funding, annually supporting an average of about 200,000 scientists, engineers, educators and students at universities, laboratories, and field sites in Illinois and the U.S. In 2008, Illinois universities, industries, and laboratories secured more than $275 million in NSF grants. "As a former political science professor, mechanical engineer, and recipient of NSF funding when I was a graduate student, I understand the critical importance of providing support for research," said Lipinski. "This position will afford me a great opportunity to continue my leadership while also working with President Obama on issues vital to our future, such as improving math and science education in our schools, promoting new technologies, and bolstering research opportunities which will enhance America's competitiveness in the global marketplace." (February 11, 2009) ###
02.11.2009	As the House and Senate work to reconcile their differences on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was joined by Rep. Don Manzullo (R-IL) and 34 other members of Congress in a letter urging the President to support "Buy American" provisions and to better enforce existing Buy American laws. "Congress is considering a bill that would spend almost 1 trillion American taxpayer dollars to get the economy moving again and put people back to work," said Lipinski, "Every one should agree that whenever possible, federal, state, and local government contractors should spend the stimulus grants to help American industries and American workers." "Whether you support the final stimulus bill or not," added Manzullo, "we should all agree that its main focus should be on creating American jobs, not more jobs overseas. A Buy American provision will help ensure that any ‘stimulus' spending supports American jobs." The Buy American Act of 1933 requires the federal government to support domestic manufacturers and workers by purchasing American-made goods, but it is riddled with loopholes and is frequently waived, often for the vague reason that it is in the "public interest" to do so. Lipinski has called on President Obama to recognize that it is in the public interest to Buy American and to crack down on illegitimate waivers by exposing them to public scrutiny. Lipinski has also fought to add a strong, transparent "Buy American" provisions in the Recovery Act. "We may have only one chance to get this right," stated Lipinski, "and it would be devastating to borrow and spend this much money only to watch it go abroad while more American factories close and more Americans lose their livelihoods." Click here to view the letter sent to President Obama. (February 11, 2009) ###
01.28.2009	Lipinski: We Improved Bill, But Further Revision Needed Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski released the following statement as the House of Representatives passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. ~~~~~ "Like all Americans, I am deeply concerned about the state of our economy, and realize that the most pressing issue for our nation is getting our economy moving again so we can put people back to work, stabilize the housing market, and foster sustainable economic growth. "Instead of a faulty Wall Street bailout, we need a stimulus bill that will put people back to work, especially to fix our transportation infrastructure. Although H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, is not the stimulus bill that I would have written, I decided to vote for this legislation at this first step in the process because we have succeeded in making some improvements to the bill and I believe that we should keep the process moving forward to help to get people back to work. During the process in the House I have been a leader in the push to improve this bill - especially in adding more transportation money, improving some of the Buy American language, and getting some wasteful spending eliminated - and as this bill goes to the Senate and then to a House-Senate conference I will continue to fight to make this a better bill for my constituents and for the nation. We need to do this right. If the final bill does not improve, I will not support it. "I applaud President Barack Obama for understanding the need for immediate, decisive action to revive our economy, but I still have many reservations about this bill. "First and foremost, it does not invest enough in transportation. Transportation infrastructure spending is one of the best ways to put people back to work immediately, to build the foundation for future prosperity, and to create jobs here in America. In fact, for every $1 billion spent on infrastructure, up to 47,000 jobs will be created. But out of the $825 billion worth of spending contained in this legislation only about 5% goes toward the rail, aviation, road, and mass transit projects that should serve as the core of this package, and could really help end this recession. We have an opportunity before us to address an enormous need for infrastructure maintenance and to create jobs at the same time. But H.R. 1 only begins to address our nation's urgent infrastructure problems. "I am proud to have improved the Recovery Act through an amendment that will increase funding for vital mass transit programs by $3 billion --- $1.5 billion for Transit Capital Assistance and $1.5 billon for New Starts. This additional funding will create and support hundreds of thousands of good paying American jobs, and in these difficult economic times, creating more American jobs should be the principal function of this legislation. "Not only will my amendment create good-paying jobs, but it will help meet urgent needs in mass transit systems nationwide, helping them accommodate the recent rise in ridership and providing widespread environmental benefits. Specifically, this amendment would increase Transit Capital Grants for Illinois from $540 million to an estimated $640 million. This is money that will be put to use immediately creating jobs, increasing access to transit in Illinois, and providing environmental benefits throughout Chicagoland. "Unfortunately, the real need for funding in Chicagoland and all across the country is much more, and investment in transit - and more broadly in transportation and infrastructure - continues to be shortchanged in this bill. "I have also led Congress in pushing for a strong "Buy American" provision in the stimulus package. One of the best ways make sure that H. R. 1 really creates jobs is to spend it here at home. But unfortunately the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act does not require that we spend $825 billion in American taxpayer dollars on American-made concrete, smart meters, and software. There is not enough in the bill to guarantee that it will create American jobs in America instead of Chinese jobs in China. "Over 50 of my colleagues joined me in a letter calling for a Buy American provision the stimulus. While I was denied a floor vote on my comprehensive amendment, my efforts led to the inclusion of provisions requiring the purchase of American-made textiles and the use of American steel and iron in all public buildings and public works projects. Although the bill is substantially improved, it still does not go far enough, and I will continue to fight for a stronger Buy American provision in the final version of the bill. "Throughout the economic crisis I have stood by the American taxpayer and consistently voted against the wasteful government spending of taxpayer funds. To that end, I am one of only a handful of Congressmen who voted against the $700 billion Wall Street Bailout. My judgment in voting against the bailout has unfortunately been proven correct. That bailout has done nothing to thaw credit markets, help small businesses, or stop the recession from getting worse. "I have been working to improve the Recovery Act to make sure that this $825 billion in taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. For example, we were successful in eliminating almost $200 million that would have been wastefully spent improving the National Mall. "I will continue to be a leader in efforts to revise and improve the bill, and I will not support the final bill unless it is substantially improved. We cannot fiddle while this recession gets worse, but we neither can we rush almost $1 trillion in spending if the spending will not create good-paying American jobs." (January 28, 2009) ###
01.22.2009	Lipinski: "Many of my greatest concerns about the flawed bailout bill have come to pass" Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement regarding his vote in favor of the disapproval resolution that would block the Treasury Secretary from spending the second $350 billion for the Wall Street bailout. Although the House passed the disapproval resolution 270 to 155, the Senate has voted down the resolution. "Today I once again put the needs of taxpayers above the greed of Wall Street, and cast my vote to stop the release of the second $350 billion for the broken TARP program. With my yes vote on the resolution of disapproval, I have voted to end this misguided program and stop the unbridled raid on the wallets of hard working Americans. I take this action regrettably because I believe that we should be acting to get the economy working again so that all Americans are not hurt by Wall Street's mistakes. "Last Fall, I voted twice against the $700 billion bailout bill because I believed it contained many serious flaws and loopholes. I specifically sighted the lack of an action plan, the lack of oversight, the lack of accountability, and the lack of reform for the broken system. After the bill passed, I sent a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi calling for greater oversight and accountability for the entire bailout package. "Unfortunately, many of my greatest concerns about the bailout bill have come to pass. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson gave away $350 billion of taxpayer funds to the Wall Street banks with no oversight, no accountability, and no penalty. No one can tell us where all the money has gone. No one can tell us what is being done with that money. It could have gone out of our country. It could be being used to pay huge bonuses to the executives who got us into this mess. And banks that have been aided by taxpayers are still refusing to loan out money. All the while Americans continue to lose their jobs and the economy continues to spiral downward. "I will not heap an additional $350 billion of debt on the backs of hard working Americans. This program costs the average family of four more than $11,000, no one can tell us where the money went, and we have seen no economic relief. Instead of giving more bailouts to those who created the problems we need to work on creating jobs and getting real relief to middle America." (January 22, 2009) ###
01.21.2009	Legislation Honors Catholic Schools Week and Celebrates the Contributions of Catholic Schools In one of the first actions of the 111th Congress, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved H.Res. 39, a resolution introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) that honors the contributions of Catholic Schools to America. Rep. Lipinski introduced the resolution to coincide with Catholic Schools Week, an annual event celebrating Catholic schools and all their teachers, administrators, students, and parents. This year, Catholic Schools Week will be held the week of January 25th through the 31st. "Catholic schools provide a quality, well-rounded education that builds a strong moral, spiritual, and intellectual foundation for students all over the country" said Lipinski. "As a product of Catholic education in the Chicago Archdiocese, at St. Symphorosa and at St. Ignatius, I have first-hand knowledge of the essential role that Catholic schools play in America." Catholic Schools Week was established in 1974 and celebrates Catholic schools and their efforts to provide students with a strong academic, moral, and service-oriented education. During this week, dioceses and schools work to build community awareness and encourage parents to take advantage of the benefits that Catholic education has to offer. This year's theme is "Catholic Schools Celebrate Service," highlighting Catholic schools' emphasis on community service. "It is especially fitting that this year's theme focuses on service," stated Lipinski. "In yesterday's inaugural address, President Obama called for a renewed nationwide commitment to service and had previously urged middle and high school students to commit to 50 hours of community service each year. "America relies on everyone pitching in to serve their neighbors, and America's Catholic schools have always taught the intrinsic value of service to others," continued Lipinski. "Nearly 95 percent of Catholic schools have a service program and the average student completes approximately 80 hours of public service. My strong desire to serve was fostered not only at home, but also in Catholic schools." Throughout the Chicago area, more than 98,000 students are enrolled in the 256 Catholic elementary and high schools. In the 3rd District of Illinois alone, there are seven Catholic high schools and approximately 50 grammar schools. Catholic Schools save taxpayers an estimated $1 billion every year in Chicagoland alone and nearly $20 billion nationwide by lessening the burden on public schools. At the same time, nationwide Catholic high school graduation rates are exceptional at 99%, with 97% of graduates going on to college or technical schools in order to further their education and training. (January 21, 2009) ###
01.21.2009	Leads Over 50 Representatives in Calling On Leaders to Include Strong "Buy American" Provision As Congress considers the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was joined by Rep. Don Manzullo (R-IL) and 51 other members of Congress in a letter urging the addition of a stronger "Buy American" provision. This would require that any money spent under this bill be used to buy American-made products whenever possible. "Congress is currently considering whether we will spend 825 billion - or more - American taxpayer dollars to get the economy moving again and put people back to work," said Lipinski, "Everyone should agree that these taxpayer dollars should be spent here at home. Wherever possible, Federal, state, and local governments, contractors and subcontractors should spend the stimulus grants to help American industries and American workers. "While construction jobs are guaranteed to stay here at home, much of the economic benefits of the proposed stimulus are not," continued Lipinski. "So we must ensure that stimulus spending to repair roads, bridges, and waterways should go first to American steel and concrete. When we spend money to modernize electrical grids or expand broadband internet, we should use American-made smart meters and fiber optics. And when we dedicate funds to President Obama's plan for making health records standardized and electronic, we should make sure it creates software jobs for programmers here in the U.S., not in Bangalore." Manzullo added, "Whether you support the stimulus bill or not, we should all agree tax dollars should focus on creating American jobs, not more jobs overseas. That's why I support this Buy American provision. It will ensure any spending in the stimulus bill will support American jobs." The Buy American Act of 1933 requires the federal government to support domestic manufacturers and workers by purchasing American-made goods, but it is riddled with loopholes and is often waived. Unless a strong "Buy American" provision is added to any economic stimulus bill, American industries, workers, and families will not reap the full benefits of the stimulus package. "We need to make sure that this bill creates American jobs in America - not Chinese jobs in China," stated Lipinski. Click here to view the text of the letter. (January 21, 2009) ###
01.05.2009	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Congressman Dan Lipinski today issued the following statement regarding the security situation in Israel. "Israel is one of America's strongest, most important allies. Our two nations share fundamental moral and political values based on freedom and democracy. "Last year, Israel continued its important work toward achieving sustainable peace in the Middle East by accepting a proposal for a six-month cease-fire with Hamas. At the same time, this agreement provided Hamas with an opportunity to embrace a peaceful means to resolving its differences with Israel. "Unfortunately, Hamas utilized the six month cease-fire to significantly boost its arsenal, which culminated in renewed rocket assaults on southern Israel. In fact, more than 600 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza at innocent civilians in Israel over the past six weeks and almost 500,000 Israelis live with the constant risk of attack. "Like every other sovereign nation, Israel not only has the right but the duty to defend its citizens from attack. It is clear that Hamas' actions left Israel with no choice but to take action. "While I strongly believe all parties involved must work towards sustainable peace, the continued attacks on Israel by Hamas significantly undermine this effort, threaten the overall security in the region, and greatly exacerbate the humanitarian situation for those living in Gaza. "My thoughts and prayers are with all the innocent victims of this crisis." (January 5, 2009) ###
12.28.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement concerning the Surface Transportation Board's (STB) final approval of the Canadian National (CN) Railroad acquisition of the Elgin, Joliet, and Eastern (EJ&E) Railway. "The STB decision is a great Christmas gift for our region, and it is the right thing to do. There will now be fewer blocked rail crossings, fewer idling trains, and an overall increase in the quality of life for area residents by moving trains from terribly congested areas out to under-utilized rail lines. "As STB Chairman Charles Nottingham said, this decision will grant relief to 'neighborhoods that have been disproportionately burdened for many decades.' This will help all residents of my district who have been burdened by rail traffic, especially in communities such as Archer Heights, Berwyn, Beverly, Bridgeport, Bridgeview, Chicago Ridge, LaGrange, LaGrange Park, Mount Greenwood, North Riverside, Oak Lawn, and Summit which will be relieved of some train traffic. "I am happy to see that the STB has placed some additional mitigation requirements on CN to help those who will face increased rail traffic. "This acquisition will also help advance the progress that we have begun with the CREATE program to ease the region's rail congestion and keep Chicagoland - and our nation - economically vital. I commend the STB for their hard work and exhaustive study of this issue." (December 26, 2008) ###
12.10.2008	Tough Bill Will Save Millions of Jobs, Force U.S. Automakers to Restructure Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass H.R. 7321, the U.S. Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act. At its core, this legislation would provide necessary bridge loans to prevent a potential near-term failure of domestic automakers. In the following statement about the bill, Lipinski expresses the need to assist American automakers in order to save millions of jobs and maintain a strong manufacturing base that is necessary for America's economy and for national security. The loan package requires the automakers to develop a long-term plan for viability and contains strong protections for American taxpayers. ~~~ "Over the past decade, America has lost more than three million manufacturing jobs, with nearly 200,000 of these losses in the Chicagoland area. In these difficult economic times, our country cannot afford to lose more good-paying American jobs. A collapse of any one of the Big Three automakers would have disastrous effects on the already fragile American economy. The government must step in and provide a bridge loan to ensure the survival of this critical core industry. That is why I voted for H.R. 7321. "The automotive industry supports an estimated five million American jobs across all 50 states and accounts for almost 4% of U.S. GDP. Experts argue that the fall of the auto industry could cost the country 3.3 million jobs over the course of the next year. In Illinois, an estimated 150,000 people would be forced out of work. With unemployment in Illinois currently at 7.3% failing to aid the automotive industry would be devastating not only to my constituents, but to the nation as a whole. "This country was built on a foundation of hard-working, middle-class manufacturing workers and this industry continues to serve as a vital pillar in the health of our economy. I do not think our economy can be built solely on the financial, service, and entertainment industries. We need manufacturing, not only as a stable base for job growth, but as a matter of national security. America must be able to manufacture the vehicles and armaments necessary to protect our nation, we cannot rely on others for our security. "But I am disappointed that the executives leading the Big Three have failed in many ways over the years. I have never owned a foreign car. From my first car, an Oldsmobile Delta 88 Diesel, to the car I drive now, a Saturn Vue hybrid, I have always driven American cars to support American workers and American manufacturing. But Big Three have not always been quick enough in innovating and producing fuel efficient, reliable cars. Nor have the companies maintained good long-term business plans. "As the Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology, I recognize that the American auto industry has to be a leader in research and development. Our commitment to energy independence and to a greener, cleaner environment is dependent on clean cars. This plan ensures that the Big Three comply with increased energy efficiency standards already passed into law, including the mandatory national minimum CAFE standard of 35 mpg by 2020. "The United Autoworkers Union (UAW) has also faced criticism for being partly responsible for the state of the American auto industry. In the past couple of years the UAW has responded by making concessions in its contracts with the Big Three, and now UAW President Ron Gettelfinger has rightly committed to further concessions to be part of the solution to the present situation. "And the importance of the industry does not mean that there should be a no-strings-attached bailout given. We have seen the consequences of legislating like that with the $700 billion Wall Street bailout. The Treasury Secretary was given too much leeway with taxpayer dollars and has been able to spend the money in whatever way he has chosen without restrictions and without oversight. We cannot repeat that. "I am pleased that this bridge loan is substantially different than the Wall Street bailout bill that I opposed. First, this is a loan to the automotive industry, not a cash handout like what was given to Wall Street. In this plan the taxpayers' investment is protected. The government is receiving warrants to purchase senior preferred stock in all participating companies, a 5% interest rate on the investment, and the guarantee of repayment of all government debt within 7 years. "Second, the package contains real accountability to the taxpayer. The appointment of an independent ‘car czar' to oversee the financial stability and implementation of this loan ensures American taxpayers are protected. This ‘car czar' also has the ability to force repayment of the loan or withhold any funding for failure to comply with the terms of the bill. "Third, the package requires that the automakers restructure their business models to ensure long term financial stability. The bill calls for the assessment of a restructuring plan by January 1, 2009 and the mandatory submission of a full restructuring plan by March 31, 2009. The Wall Street bailout did not call for any form of restructuring of the financial sector, allowing business-as-usual to continue on Wall Street. "Fourth, the CEO's have agreed to slash their pay to $1 for this year in an effort to lead by example. In addition, the plan ensures that no bonuses are paid to the companies' 25 most highly paid employees, places prohibitions on golden parachutes, limits compensation plans, and requires divestment of private aircraft or leases. We saw no such concessions from Wall Street. "The package will protect the United States automotive industry, which in turn will ensure the sustainability of the American manufacturing sector. The loan is not another bailout, it is a necessary loan to a core sector of the American economy that without assistance, threatens the very economic stability of the country and our national security." (December 10, 2008) ###
10.25.2008	Congressman Joined by Metra, RTA, and Local Mayors Today Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Chicagoland's only member of the powerful House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, along with officials from Metra and the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) announced a $680,000 grant to begin weekend service for the first time ever on Metra's SouthWest Service. The RTA and Metra have each agreed to pay half of the $680,000 cost. The demonstration project will begin running in early Spring next year. Lipinski was joined by Phil Pagano, Executive Director of Metra, Steve Schlickman, Executive Director of the RTA, Mayor Gene Siegel of Chicago Ridge, Mayor Ed Gudziol of Worth, and Mayor Bill Borgo of Manhattan. The SouthWest Service runs from Chicago to Manhattan with stops in communities such as Ashburn, Wrightwood, Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, Palos Heights, and Palos Park. "Today is an important day for all those who live along the Metra Southwest Service, not only in Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, and Palos but all the way from Wrightwood to Manhattan," said Lipinski. "Soon we should have convenient weekend access from all of these communities into downtown Chicago and to all destinations along the line. Whether someone is going to work on the weekend or a family is going out for a day of fun, this will be very beneficial, especially in these tough economic times. It will also help communities along the line to bring people to destinations in their towns, like the Oak Lawn Children's Museum. "The SouthWest Service serves a rapidly growing population, and I have heard from many people about their desire for weekend trains," stated Lipinski. "Many residents in my district have viewed weekend trains on this line as only a dream. In early Spring that dream should become a reality. Metra and the RTA should be commended for making this possible. And while I understand that Metra intends to run this as a demonstration project to test ridership, I have no doubt that if you run it, they will come." Congressman Lipinski convened a high-level meeting on July 28, 2008 to bring together Metra and other stakeholders, including the freight railroads, to look for options and solutions to bring weekend trains to the SouthWest Service. On October 17, Metra released its preliminary 2009 budget which included plans to run three round trips on this line every Saturday. Earlier today, the RTA Board approved a $340,000 grant for this service, which will be matched dollar for dollar by Metra. The weekend trains will start off as a demonstration project to test ridership levels. The Metra Board will vote on the budget next month. "I am here to salute Congressman Lipinski's leadership on behalf of all of the residents of Worth," said Mayor Ed Guzdziol. "After hearing many others talk about getting weekend trains, Dan Lipinski went out and got it done. Congressman Lipinski continues to be a leader fighting and winning for our communities." "Weekend service is going to be great for Chicago Ridge, and I want to thank Congressman Lipinski for all his work on this issue," said Mayor Gene Siegel of Chicago Ridge. "I am glad that we have a representative who listens to his constituents, understands their needs, and gets results for them." Lipinski is the only Chicagoland congressman on the powerful House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which is tasked with rewriting a $286.5 billion highway and transit funding bill next year. This legislation provides billions of dollars to Illinois and local transit agencies for road and transit funding. (October 25, 2008) ###
10.22.2008	Treasury Department Must Do More to Protect Taxpayer Dollars In a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) strongly urged the development and implementation of a strategy to protect taxpayer dollars from waste and abuse that could potentially occur following the recent $700 billion Wall Street bailout. Lipinski is the only member of Congress who represents part of Chicago to vote against the bailout package twice, in part over concerns the legislation failed to adequately protect taxpayer dollars. His call to action comes in response to reckless spending by AIG executives after the government stepped in to save the insurance giant from collapse. "From the beginning, I have argued the Wall Street bailout package fundamentally lacks oversight and accountability to taxpayers," said Lipinski. "For these and a variety of other reasons, I consistently opposed the legislation and even warned on several occasions that taxpayer resources used to bailout and ‘rescue' failing companies are at serious risk for abuse. Some may have believed the existing loopholes in the bailout package would not be exploited by executives, but recent actions by AIG executives very clearly indicate that taxpayer resources are highly vulnerable." In September, the Treasury Department announced its intention to loan $85 billion dollars to AIG to save the company from bankruptcy. Within a week of accessing this loan, a number of AIG executives attended a week-long luxury "retreat" that cost the company, and essentially the taxpayer, $440,000. This "retreat" included spa treatments, fine dining, and thousand dollar per night hotel rooms. This month, AIG executives spent an additional $86,000 in corporate funds during a "hunting trip" to England even as the company asked for another $37.8 billion in taxpayer resources. "It is unfair in the first place for taxpayers have to pay the price for Wall Street's mistakes, but for taxpayers to subsidize vacations and spa treatments is simply incomprehensible" stated Lipinski. "AIG's unbelievable actions show that we cannot afford to blindly trust executives with taxpayer dollars, and this is especially true with respect to the $700 billion provided through the Wall Street bailout package. That is why Secretary Paulson must adopt a more proactive and vigilant strategy to protect taxpayer dollars in the future. I remain committed to protecting the interests of taxpayers and will continue to monitor the actions of the Treasury Department to ensure this waste and abuse cannot happen again." Click Here for the text of Rep. Lipinski’s letter to Secretary Paulson. (October 22, 2008) ###
10.17.2008	Congressional Funding for Energy Assistance Is Released Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) applauded the release of the $5.1 billion in energy assistance to help seniors and working families keep the heat on this winter. "Families are struggling to make ends meet and heating costs are expected to reach record levels again," stated Lipinski. "That is why I have made it a top priority to provide families with relief from high energy costs - doubling this critical investment in energy relief to help seniors and working families keep the heat on this winter." The recently enacted spending law will provide Low-Income Home Energy Assistance to an additional 2 million households and increase the average grant from $355 to $550 (an increase of $2.5 billion over Fiscal Year 2008 funding). Illinois will receive nearly $266 million to help families with heating bills that have more than doubled since 2001. "This winter, Americans using heating oil will pay more than $2,300 per family," stated Lipinski. "We cannot ask Chicagoans, especially the elderly, to make the choice between heat and food or medicine. My three district offices are here to assist third district residents get help with their heating bills, and I am pleased that additional funding is being provided to assist families with these record prices." The Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) is funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the state of Illinois. A one-time energy assistance benefit is provided by local community action agencies or not-for-profit agencies throughout the state of Illinois. The amount of the benefit is determined by income, household size, fuel type and geographic location. Rep. Lipinski's office has volunteers to assist constituents with LIHEAP. To make an appointment to find out more about the program, call the Chicago office at 312-866-0481. (October 17, 2008) ###
10.03.2008	Today Congressman Lipinski (IL-03) issued the following statement concerning his opposition to the Senate Amendments to H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008: "Today, I am voting against the latest Wall Street bailout bill, a bill that has grown in size and scope to $850 billion. From 3 pages to 110 pages to over 450 pages of legislation, this bill proves the old adage still holds true. Bigger isn't necessarily better. "I cast this vote regrettably because I believe that we should be doing more to stabilize the credit markets so that small businesses and all Americans are not hurt by tightening credit. But it is more important to do the right thing than just doing something, especially when that something will cost the average family of four more than $11,000 and there are many economists who do not believe that it will work. More than 400 economists, including Nobel Prize winners, have said that this is not the right action to take. "Unfortunately, the Senate took a bill with a number of problems and instead of fixing the problems, they simply added more problems to the bill. While some of these add-ons are good policy that I support, it was fiscally irresponsible for the Senate to add them to this bailout bill. They're not paid for, and they will bust the bank. "I voted for H.R. 7060, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Tax Act. It's fully paid for, and it's budget neutral. It was a stand-alone bill to extend the tax incentives for alternative energy, expand eligibility for Child Tax Credit so more working families can benefit, and extend deductions for education expenses to help more families afford college. I also voted for H.R. 7005, the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act. And I am a cosponsor of legislation to increase FDIC insurance up to $300,000 for bank accounts. "But the main issue I have is that the Senate refused to plug any of the loopholes in the bill - loopholes that will put Wall Street and even foreign banks before the interests of American taxpayers. Many supporters of this bill believe that these loopholes will not be exploited, but I do not believe we can take this chance with $700 billion. "First, why are we writing a $700 billion blank check to the financial industry with no real accountability, no real oversight, and no real reform? The President and Secretary of the Treasury will have almost unfettered access to all $700 billion. The first $350 billion is guaranteed, and the only way for Congress to stop the spending of the next $350 billion is to have both chambers pass a resolution to stop the transfer within 15 days of the president asking for the money - and then the president can veto this resolution! When I taught American Government 101, on the first day of class we talked about how the Founding Fathers created a system of government with checks and balances to rein in the potential abuse of power. With this bill, there is little chance for Congress to check the president and there is certainly no balance. The biggest check is the $700 billion check for the people who got us into this mess. "Second, why are we throwing more bad debt around the necks of American taxpayers? There is a provision in the bill that is supposed to help the American taxpayer recover any of the $700 billion that is not repaid to the Treasury. However, all this provision says is that after five years the president will have to submit a "proposal" to Congress to recoup from the financial industry any of the money lost. This places the responsibility in the hands of the president and the Congress elected in 2012, men and women who may feel no responsibility for what we do today. And if today we are giving these companies $700 billion, what is the chance that Congress will be taxing these powerful interests 5 years from now? "Third, why should Americans bailout the world? There is absolutely nothing in this bill to prevent the $700 billion from going to foreign banks. The American taxpayer could be bailing out the Bank of China. "Fourth, why aren't multimillionaire Wall Street CEOs being held accountable? Despite some provisions in this bill to cap executive pay for companies that the American taxpayer bails out, there are too many loopholes that will allow tax dollars to enrich those millionaire executives that drove these institutions into the ground. "Fifth, why isn't there any real reform of the system that led to the current crisis? The system is broke. The regulations are faulty. The loopholes are many. What's to prevent this from happening again? We need to completely revamp and overhaul the regulatory system that governs the financial industry. Without real reform, we will only be throwing good money after bad. "Sixth, why isn't there real oversight with real teeth? This bill creates panels to oversee the spending of the $700 billion but none of these overseers have any power to stop any wrongdoing or waste of taxpayer dollars. They only have the power to meet, talk, and issue reports. Oversight without real teeth to enforce wrongdoing is only watching - it's not real oversight. "Seventh, why do American taxpayers have to bear all the risk with potentially little reward? This bill says American taxpayers will have the opportunity to buy into companies that their tax dollars go to. This is a good idea. If the institutions we bail out turn a profit, the American people should share in that. Unfortunately, the Secretary of the Treasury is given the option to NOT exercise this buy-in, and Secretary Paulson has indicated that he will not do so. "On top of all these flaws in the bill, I believe that this plan is based on what may be a faulty framework proposed by President Bush and Treasury Secretary Paulson. It is a framework that has been criticized by many prominent economists and business leaders, such as John Allison, the Chairman and CEO of BB&T, one of the largest commercial banks in the country. Mr. Allison said it is ‘inappropriate that the debate is largely being shaped by the financial institutions who made very poor decisions'. Economists have also pointed out that investors who took the risk to earn profits should be on the hook to bear the losses. This bill is no different than the previous bill. It bails out those who created the mess in the first place. They are not held responsible. They are not held liable. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley helped create the mess, and now they will turn around and be the primary beneficiaries of the bailout. "I have heard from hundreds and hundreds of constituents. I have read the bills, and I have consulted with experts on the situation. This is a very difficult vote and there is no easy answer. But I do not think that this bill is the right solution to the credit issue. I also believe that there are larger issues for the American people that we must focus on. Today the latest unemployment numbers were issued showing a significant increase in the number of Americans losing their jobs. The House passed an economic stimulus bill last week that would dedicate $60 billion to help middle America, with more than $40 billion going to infrastructure repair for roads, schools, and water infrastructure, along with investment in alternative energy - all of which would put middle class Americans to work making needed infrastructure improvements. If we have $700 billion to hand to the Secretary of the Treasury to give out to the financial industry, the Senate should have been able to at least spend $60 billion to ease the economic burden on middle America. "I am hopeful that this bill works, and that this bailout package is the solution to our economic woes and the American taxpayer is not on the hook for $700 billion. But after careful analysis I do not believe this bill is the answer that Americans need." (October 3, 2008) ###
09.29.2008	Today Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement regarding his “no” vote for H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008: “The people of the Third District are hardworking Americans who pay their bills, pay their taxes, and try to do the right thing. But in these tough economic times they are working more and finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet because of high gas prices, skyrocketing health care costs, and stagnating wages. “And now American financial markets are in turmoil. Multimillionaire executives on Wall Street created a system of risky financial instruments and made millions of dollars. Now that some financial institutions are failing, American taxpayers are being called upon to pay for these terrible decisions and irresponsible behavior. “I feel there is a need to help stabilize the financial markets so we can keep the problems from spreading to the rest of the economy and further threatening American families. But when the Bush Administration announced its plan last week to give a $700 billion blank check to Wall Street I knew it was not the right thing to do. That proposal had no accountability, no oversight, no regulatory reform, and put far too many taxpayer dollars at risk. And it did not hold those who created the crisis responsible for their actions. “That is why I cosigned a letter to Speaker Pelosi calling for specific changes to improve the Bush proposal – changes that I believed would bring more accountability and oversight and implement real reform. These would include provisions that limit executive compensation and golden parachutes, prohibit funds from bailing out foreign banks, require strong independent supervision and oversight, and significantly lower the $700 billion risk to taxpayers. “A $700 billion bailout would drive our national debt over $10 trillion. I do not believe our children and grandchildren should be burdened with an additional $700 billion in debt. I stated that any legislation should include provisions that will ensure that any proceeds and profits will be used to first repay American taxpayers. If the American taxpayer is bailing out these companies, the American taxpayer should be given a real stake in these companies so that they can share in future profits. “Over 400 prominent economists from some of the leading universities in the U.S. – including Nobel Prize winners – have expressed great concern about moving too quickly and passing a potentially faulty plan. They also pointed out that investors who took the risk to earn profits should be on the hook to bear the losses. Dr. Alan Blinder, an Economics Professor at Princeton University who is also the former Vice-Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, has said he disagreed that a bailout package needed to be done this week and pointed out the importance of doing it right. “After having read this 110 page bill, I do not believe it is right. While it does include significant improvements – improvements that I requested – I still have concerns with the hastiness of the process and the substance of the bill. I am concerned with the potential loopholes – loopholes for excessive CEO pay, loopholes that will allow payments to foreign banks, loopholes to avoid strong independent oversight, loopholes to prevent real reform of the financial industry, and loopholes that would result in American taxpayers not getting repaid. The Secretary of the Treasury is simply given too much power and can set aside the accountability provisions in this bill. These are important issues that I feel have not been adequately addressed in this legislation. “We should not have rushed to action. We should look at the root of the problem and try to solve it. We should carefully consider the ramifications of this proposal. We should act prudently and responsibly. We should do it right, so we don’t leave American taxpayers on the hook for $700 billion worth of bad debt and so we don’t let this happen again. And let’s make sure those who are liable for the mess are held responsible for creating it. “While the bill we voted on today is much improved from the one we got from President Bush and Secretary Paulson, I simply believe we need a better bill. That is why I could not vote to support a bill on such an important and significant issue when I know we could and can do better. “We should have done it right the first time. The American people deserve no less. “Now that this bill has failed to pass the House, we have a new opportunity to work on a new bill. Let us move prudently and rationally and work on a new and different bill that will do the right thing by the American people.” (September 29, 2008) ###
09.26.2008	Legislation Provides Tax Breaks for Middle-Class Families Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass H.R. 7060, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Tax Act of 2008. This sweeping energy bill would rollback tax breaks and loopholes for oil companies to provide approximately $15 billion in tax incentives for home energy efficiency and renewable energy, helping to put the United States on a path toward energy independence and a clean, green economy. "We've had record gas prices in Chicagoland hitting the pocketbooks of millions of hard-working families, and as the temperature drops we will be facing another hit in our home heating bills," said Lipinski. "America needs to be energy independent and we will only get there through legislation such as this which invests in alternative energies and energy efficiency." The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Tax Act provides tax credits for more energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances, helping to save families billions of dollars. The bill also commits America to a renewable energy future by providing $15 billion in tax incentives for the increased production of renewable and alternative energies, such as solar, wind, fuel cells, plug-in hybrid vehicles, biomass, geothermal, and hydropower technology. In addition, the bill will create American jobs and cut taxes for millions of middle-class families by providing $46 billion in tax credits, including $12 billion for individuals and $34 billion for businesses. As part of this, the bill extends the critically important research and development credit and the refundable child tax credit. The bill is completely paid for by closing loopholes and repealing tax breaks for the oil and gas industry. "With middle class families working harder and struggling to make ends meet we must do more to provide relief," said Lipinski. "The tax cuts provided in this bill, including the child tax credit, will help families and help to create jobs." The legislation now moves to the Senate for further consideration. (September 26, 2008) ###
09.26.2008	Bill Creates American Jobs and Makes Critical Investments in Infrastructure and Transit Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass the Job Creation and Unemployment Relief Act (H.R. 7110), a second economic stimulus package that aims to boost America's lagging economy and create good paying American jobs. H.R. 7110 would invest $60.8 billion into the economy, placing an emphasis on much needed investment in infrastructure across the nation. For Illinois, this legislation would provide an additional $436.8 million for highway infrastructure investment, $271.6 million to expand accessibility to mass transit, and $290.3 million for sewer and water treatment projects over the next year. "American families continue to experience great economic hardships," said Rep. Lipinski. "Unemployment is the highest it has been since 1992 with the economy losing 605,000 jobs this year alone. At the same time, it is estimated that the United States is in need of a $1.6 trillion investment in the next five years to replace aging infrastructure. For nearly a year, I have made the case that an economic stimulus package should include investments in public infrastructure. Investment in infrastructure is win-win for all Americans-funding is spent on projects that are desperately needed and good-paying jobs that cannot be exported are created." H.R. 7110 provides $30 billion for investment in infrastructure improvements, including funding for: Airports - $600 million to construct projects that improve safety and reduce delays. Amtrak - $500 million to make necessary upgrades to tracks and stations. Clean Water - $7.5 billion for drinking water and sewer projects. Energy - $1.6 billion to modernize the electric grid and make energy infrastructure more secure. Highways - $12.8 billion to improve highways and bridges. Schools - $3 billion to repair crumbling schools and provide students with first class technology. Transit - $4.6 billion to expand public transportation and make improvements to facilities. Water Resources: - $5 billion to improve and boost water infrastructure. "Every $1 billion invested in American infrastructure creates and supports 47,500 American jobs," stated Lipinski. "As the transportation hub of America with one of the highest unemployment rates in the nation, Illinois will greatly benefit under this legislation. We need more investment in our outdated infrastructure that will create more job opportunities. From improving local roads and sewers, to expanding access to mass transit and Amtrak service, to improving schools and modernizing the electric grid, to improving water resources and airport facilities, this stimulus bill will help invest in Illinois' transportation system, while putting thousands of Illinois residents back to work." H.R. 7110 also provides resources for unemployment compensation and job training programs. This legislation passed the House on September 26, 2008 by a vote of 264 to 158 and it will now be considered in the Senate. (September 26, 2008) ###
09.25.2008	Today Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), northern Illinois' only member of the powerful House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, helped pass H.R. 2095, the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008. The landmark legislation is the first major update to federal laws on rail safety and Amtrak for over a decade. It includes a number of new grant programs requested by Congressman Lipinski that could benefit Illinois. "The tragic commuter train crash in Los Angeles on September 12 which claimed the lives of 25 people highlights the need for the federal government to do more to improve safety, fight congestion, and invest in our rail system," said Lipinski. "We must invest in tracks, grade separations, and technology, and this legislation takes significant steps forward in helping our country meet those needs." H.R. 2095 provides $1.575 billion for federal rail safety programs and the Federal Railroad Administration over five years. It also authorizes a total of $13.06 billion for intercity passenger rail service over five years. Specifically, the legislation includes new programs that could significantly enhance Illinois' rail system by improving safety and efficiency. Railroad Safety Technology Grants - $250 million over five years for a new program that would help fund safety projects, such as collision avoidance and other positive train control projects. Congressman Lipinski included similar language in the bill during in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee High Speed Rail Grants - $1.5 billion over five years for grants to states or Amtrak to fund the design/engineering and construction of designated high speed rail corridors, including the Chicago High Speed Rail Hub. Congestion Grants - $325 million over five years for capacity enhancement projects in congested passenger rail corridors. Congressman Lipinski included language in the House Committee report that helps designate funds for Illinois projects, including the Heritage Corridor between Chicago and Joliet. "We have countless Metra, Amtrak, and freight trains running around and through my congressional district," said Lipinski. "As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I'm pleased that my efforts have resulted in new programs that will invest funds into our region, improve safety, and improve rail service. "H.R. 2095 and the congestion grants will help improve service along the Heritage Corridor," continued Lipinski. "The Railroad Safety Technology Grants will help Metra in my congressional district and across the region. It will help Amtrak. It will help the freight railroads. But most importantly, it will help millions of commuters in Chicagoland who deal with the congestion that is choking our region. With $1.5 billion for high speed rail, it will also help position us for the future by getting the Chicago High Speed Rail Hub off the ground. We shouldn't have to look towards Japan or China or Europe for high speed rail. We should have it right here in Chicagoland." The U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 2095 by voice vote, and it will now be considered by the U.S. Senate. (September 25, 2008) ###
09.23.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) praised House passage of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (S.J.Res. 45), a resolution granting congressional approval to an agreement signed by the eight Great Lakes states, including Illinois. The Compact is an agreement to protect the lakes, improve water conservation, and encourage economic growth in the Great Lakes region. In July, Rep. Lipinski joined a bipartisan group of representatives in introducing the Joint Resolution, and in September the Senate passed the resolution. "I am pleased that today we are providing the necessary congressional approval to this Compact to protect the Great Lakes," stated Lipinski. "Now is the time for all of us at the federal, state, and local levels to step up to protect our great resource." In 2005, the Council of Great Lakes Governors (CGLG), a partnership of the governors of the eight Great Lakes states and the Canadian provincial premiers of Ontario and Quebec, finalized the Compact. Prior to state implementation, the Compact required consent and approval from the United States Congress. Specifically, the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact does the following: Bans new diversions of water from the Basin with limited exceptions to communities near the Basin; Creates clear goals and standards for communities to apply for exemption status or appeal decisions; Creates a consistent standard of review for proposed uses of Basin water while allowing States the flexibility to develop and maintain water management programs; Encourages sustainable economic development and reasonable use of Basin waters; Develops regional goals and objectives for water conservation and efficiency and similar programs in each of the eight Great Lakes States; and Renews the strong commitment to continued public involvement in the implementation of the Compact. Rep. Lipinski has been a leader in Congress in protecting Lake Michigan and all of America's waters. Last year he helped fight back BP's plan to increase the dumping of pollutants into Lake Michigan as they expand a refinery in Whiting, IN. He also helped introduce the Great Lakes Water Protection Act to ban the dumping of sewage into the Great Lakes and he is a cosponsor of the Clean Water Restoration Act that would reinstitute the protections established by the Clean Water Act 35 years ago. "The Great Lakes remain one of our most vital environmental and economic resources, particularly for the Chicagoland area," said Lipinski. "Preserving the sustainability of the Great Lakes and ensuring high environmental standards will improve our most important fresh water supply. And by encouraging sustainable economic development, we are charting a new course for our future." (September 23, 2008) ###
09.23.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) said he would not support the Bush Administration's $700,000,000,000 "blank check" to bail out the financial industry. "I have serious concerns about the Bush Administration's $700 billion blank check for Wall Street," stated Lipinski. "Their proposal would bail out the Wall Street bankers and others who made bad decisions, made risky investments deals, and made for themselves millions of dollars - often tens of millions of dollars - off the backs of American families. That isn't right. This should not be all about the multi-millionaire CEOs and investment bankers on Wall Street, it should be about the responsible, hard-working families in communities along Archer Avenue, Harlem Avenue, LaGrange Road, and 95th Street." Rep. Lipinski today joined more than 12 House colleagues in sending a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi calling for 11 changes to the Bush administration's proposal before it is even considered by the House. Specifically, the letter says that any congressional actions to address the crisis in the financial industry should include provisions to cap the compensation of multimillionaire CEOs, prevent foreign entities from receiving any money, ensure congressional supervision of all actions, and require the investment of funds in the United States. "A $700 billion blank check with no accountability, no oversight, and no regulatory reform is a non-starter for me," said Lipinski. "Now it is our opportunity to finally bring about the long-overdue regulatory reform of the financial industry." "While there may be a need to take action, we must act prudently," continued Lipinski. "I am working with my colleagues in Congress to fight against this blank check and take responsible action for honest, hard-working Americans. We must not sacrifice American families on a $700 billion altar of red ink." House and Senate leaders are currently negotiating with the White House to formulate an appropriate response to the financial crisis. (September 23, 2008) ###
09.16.2008	"This Is A Simple Case Of Justice Triumphing Over Bureaucratic Errors" Today, H.R. 5030, a bill introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) that would allow Corina Turcinovic to remain in the United States and apply for permanent legal residency, passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The legislation, which unanimously passed the House Judiciary Committee in May, now moves to the U.S. Senate. Lipinski's bill is the first private bill to pass the House in two years. "This is a simple case of justice triumphing over bureaucratic errors," explained Lipinski. "It has taken a lot of work, but the bipartisan passage of this bill reflects the unique circumstances surrounding Corina's case. I am very happy that the House passed my bill to start Corina on her way to citizenship. This is a long way from when Corina was headed to O'Hare Airport to be deported earlier this year. If not for the mistakes made by the government on her late husband's citizenship application, she never would have had to go through this. Ending this ordeal for Corina is now in the hands of the Senate. Bureaucratic red tape should not get in the way of justice, and today's action represents another significant step towards correcting those mistakes." Mrs. Turcinovic entered the United States legally in 1990 when her then-fiancé, Maro Turcinovic, was paralyzed after being hit by a car in New Jersey. Maro was soon transferred to Chicago for rehabilitation care, and Corina - having been given permission by immigration authorities to stay and care for her injured fiancé - came with him. Over the next 14 years, Corina would spend nearly every hour attending to the health needs of Maro, and in 1996, the couple married. Maro was going through the process of becoming a naturalized citizen, but mistakes by the government prevented the process from being completed before complications stemming from Maro's injuries claimed his life. Because Maro did not become a citizen prior to his death, Corina could not apply for permanent legal status under the expedited procedures available to spouses and widows of U.S. citizens. To help correct this government mistake, Rep. Lipinski introduced a bill on Corina's behalf on January 16, 2008. On January 22, last minute efforts of Rep. Lipinski as well as Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren played a critical role in stopping Corina's deportation as she was being driven to O'Hare Airport by immigration officials. Upon introduction in Congress, private bills must follow special procedures, with outcomes that are far from certain. Since 2003, only four of 236 private bills have passed both chambers and been enacted into law. (September 16, 2008) ###
09.16.2008	Bill Invests in Alternative Energy and Energy Efficiency While Responsibly Expanding Drilling Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act. This sweeping energy plan will promote American energy independence and a clean, green economy by expanding domestic and renewable sources of energy, investing in energy efficiency and conservation, ending subsidies to big oil companies, and promoting good jobs in America. "Today's legislation is a victory for the pocketbooks of middle-class Americans, the security of our country, and the health of the environment," stated Lipinski. "This broad energy plan will help advance the goals of cutting America's foreign oil dependence and reducing global warming through the development of new clean energy sources, a reduction in energy consumption, and an expansion of domestic energy production to replace foreign oil." The comprehensive legislation commits America to a renewable energy future by providing $18 billion in tax incentives for the increased production of renewable and alternative energies, such as solar, wind, fuel cells, plug-in hybrid vehicles, biomass, geothermal, and hydropower. The bill also provides an additional $1.7 billion in grants to transit agencies, while promoting efficiency and conservation that will save consumers billions through more energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. The bill also requires 15 percent of American electricity to come from renewable sources by 2020, saving consumers $13-18 billion over that time. The legislation also includes a compromise to responsibly open up the Outer Continental Shelf for drilling, with environmental protections, while demanding that oil companies use the leases they have already been issued. Without any action, the moratorium on offshore drilling will expire on October 1, opening up drilling to within 3 miles of all of America's coasts. "Americans are ready to chart a new, diverse energy future where we use domestically-produced, clean, renewable fuels in the most efficient manner possible," stated Lipinski. "I will continue fighting for a greener, more affordable, and less oil-dependent future that will expand our economy and ensure our security. But while we work our way to the new energy economy, we will increase the production of American oil and gas to increase our energy security while caring for our environment." (September 16, 2008) ###
09.09.2008	Gives Statement on CN-EJ&E Acquisition at House Transportation Committee Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today made the following statement at a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing regarding a bill relating to the Canadian National (CN) Rail purchase of the Elgin, Joliet, and Eastern (EJ&E) Railway. In his statement, Lipinski urged the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to take a more balanced approach in reviewing the proposed acquisition by considering the benefits that will occur in over 60 Chicagoland communities, including many in the Third District, as a result of the transaction. Representative Lipinski is Chicagoland's only member on the powerful House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which has oversight of the STB. ~~~ "I grew up less than the length of a football field away from railroad tracks. I now live in a village of less than 13,000 that is bisected by a railroad line that carries 160 to 170 trains per day and cuts off my side of town from the fire station. I know all too well the safety issues and inconveniences caused by trains - blocked crossings, train whistles, and pollution, especially from idling trains that sit and wait for 12, sometimes 24 hours behind some of my constituents' houses waiting to get into the rail yard. "Chicago is the rail hub of North America, but also a major rail chokepoint. That is why I was happy to get $100 million in SAFETEA-LU to begin Phase 1 of the public-private partnership called CREATE to ease congestion on the rails and on the roads in Chicagoland. So when CN announced plans to acquire the EJ&E rail line, I immediately wanted to know two things; first, the regional impact on safety and on affected communities, and second, the economic harm and benefits to the region due to the effect on the congested rail lines. "While I commend the STB for holding a series of public meetings in Chicagoland, I do want to express my strong concern that the attention and focus has been on the communities along the EJ&E while communities in Chicago and the inner suburbs, such as those in my district, have largely been left on the sidelines. "An analysis by two faculty members at The University of Chicago's Harris School of Public Policy Studies points out some interesting facts. Professor Berry and Professor Bueno de Mesquita note in their analysis that the majority of the public meetings have largely been held in the communities along the EJ&E. "There were 7 scoping meetings. 6 were in the suburbs. "Only one was held in Chicago. "There were 22 outreach meetings for minorities. "Only one was held in Chicago. "And there are 8 public hearings to comment on the Draft EIS. "And guess what? "Only one was held in Chicago. "Archer Heights, Bridgeport, Beverly, Mt. Greenwood, Garfield Ridge, Clearing, Chicago Ridge, LaGrange Park, North Riverside, Riverside, Berwyn, Summit, and Oak Lawn. "These are some of the communities just in my congressional district that will see fewer trains as a result of this transaction. Across Chicagoland there are over 60 densely populated communities that will see fewer trains. This means fewer idling trains, fewer blocked crossing, and fewer train whistles in the middle of the night. "I believe that all voices should be heard. How can we fully review the costs without fully reviewing the benefits? That is what has been happening. "To better understand why, I sat down to review Section 11324 of Title 49 which governs rail acquisitions. Section 11324 says "the STB shall hold a public hearing" for railroad transactions. Section 11324 also speaks to the issue of "public interest," but it's unclear how that is defined. It does not speak to the issue of community concerns and impact and it does not specifically direct that all voices be heard. In the case of the CN-EJ&E, it strikes me that many voices were not heard. "I was not here at the time of the Staggers Act of 1980 or the ICC Termination Act of 1995, but I, for one, do not believe that Congress intended that only some voices be heard. "That's why I believe we need to clarify the current statute to ensure all voices are heard. We need to ensure that future transactions are reviewed in a manner that is comprehensive, regional, and balanced. We need to ensure that the costs and benefits are fully considered. We need to ensure that communities like those in my district do not get left on the sidelines in the future. "I applaud Chairman Oberstar for his leadership on this issue and for introducing H.R. 6707, the Taking Responsible Action for Community Safety Act. I believe clarification is needed, I believe community concerns need to be fully considered, and I believe this bill moves us in that direction. I look forward to working with the Chairman on this important bill." (September 9, 2008) ###
08.29.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the Western Springs Fire Department will be awarded $54,150 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). Congressman Lipinski is Chicagoland's only member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which has oversight of the Department of Homeland Security. This grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. The Western Springs Fire Department is going to use this $54,150 grant to purchase new laptops for command vehicles, communications and hearing protection headsets for fire apparatuses, and a new hydraulic rescue device. "All first responders perform a difficult and dangerous job," said Rep. Lipinski. "They put their lives on the line each and every day, so we can be safe. I want to do all that I can to fully support the important mission and safety of first responders. And as a resident of Western Springs I know many of our fire fighters and I have great respect for the work they do keeping my home and family safe. This federal assistance will provide equipment that will help these men and women do the best possible job in keeping our community safe." Since entering Congress in 2005, Congressman Lipinski has brought back over $3.4 million in federal funding for first responders in the Third Congressional District of Illinois. (August 29, 2008) ###
08.21.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today announced his support for the Canadian National (CN) Rail purchase of the Elgin, Joliet, and Eastern (EJ&E) Railway. Lipinski is the only northern Illinois member who serves on the powerful House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee that oversees the Surface Transportation Board (STB). He was joined by Mayor Richard Scheck of North Riverside, President Jack Wiaduck of Riverside, and other local officials and residents at today's announcement. "After careful consideration of the facts, including the STB's draft EIS (Environmental Impact Statement), I have concluded that this transaction will be good for the region," said Lipinski. "Overall, it will improve the quality of life for area residents and contribute to local economic growth. In addition, it will be good for the national economy." "Chicagoland is the rail hub of the nation, and it is also a terrible rail bottleneck," concluded Lipinski. "This is a national problem because it takes 2 days just to get a train through Chicago. But it is also a local problem because it means idling trains, blocked crossings, and train whistles at all times of the day. My constituents and many other residents in countless communities all throughout Chicagoland have had to live with these issues for a long time. This purchase can help change that." Based on data filed with the STB, more than 60 municipalities will see a reduction in train traffic with this deal, including many in Congressman Lipinski's congressional district. The STB has found with an independent analysis that the future traffic estimates are reasonable. Some of the estimates for Third District communities include: Archer Heights - 8 fewer CN trains per day Beverly - 3 fewer CN trains per day Bridgeport - 4 fewer CN trains per day Bridgeview - 8 fewer CN trains per day Chicago Ridge - 17 fewer CN trains per day Garfield Ridge - 24 fewer CN trains per day LaGrange - 9 fewer CN trains per day LaGrange Park - 9 fewer CN trains per day Mount Greenwood - 3 fewer CN trains per day Oak Lawn - 8 fewer CN trains per day Summit - 21 fewer CN trains per day "I strongly believe that it is critical to evaluate this acquisition from a balanced regional perspective," explained Lipinski. "It is important to look at the areas that will benefit. From Bridgeport to Bridgeview, from Oak Lawn to Beverly and Mount Greenwood, from Archer Heights to LaGrange Park, and from Chicago Ridge to Garfield Ridge - these communities and many others will benefit. Fewer CN freight trains will be running through many other communities throughout this region, such as Harvey, Bellwood, Posen, Schiller Park, South Holland, Franklin Park, and Lansing." On October 30, 2007, CN filed an application with the STB to acquire the EJ&E. In July 2008, the STB released its draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), a document 9 inches thick with 5 volumes and 9 chapters. The EIS found that current Metra operations and Amtrak operations would not be affected. It also found that Metra's proposed STAR line and Southeast Service projects would not be adversely affected either. "The STB's draft EIS provides answers to many of my initial questions when the proposal was announced," said Lipinski. "This will not hurt current Metra and Amtrak operations or the Metra STAR line or Southeast Service projects, and it will help reduce train traffic in over 60 communities. In the communities where train traffic will increase, I believe that those impacts should be mitigated to the fullest extent possible and in a reasonable fashion. On balance, this is a good deal for the region and the nation." Transportation experts from the Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development at DePaul University and the Metropolitan Transportation Support Initiative at the University of Illinois at Chicago have expressed support for the CN acquisition of the EJ&E and noted its benefits to the entire region. (August 21, 2008) ###
08.07.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined 20 Members of Congress in sending a letter last week to President Bush calling on him to take immediate steps to advance human rights as he arrives in China today to attend the Beijing Olympics. "China deserves to be held publicly accountable for continuously flouting international labor and environmental standards, and repressing religious freedoms and political dissent," stated Lipinski. "China's labor conditions remain abysmal while Chinese pollution tarnishes not only their local environment and the Olympic Games, but the global environment as well. And their actions against religious and political freedoms are notorious. These deeds are unacceptable, and we should be holding China more accountable." Lipinski expressed his deep concerns that U.S. relations with the People's Republic of China suffer from a chronic asymmetry that harms U.S. interests and undermines the advancement of democracy and human rights abroad. In the letter, Rep. Lipinski urged President Bush to consider taking the following steps to bring progress in human rights: Insist that the Chinese government allow Bush to visit Tibet and meet with ordinary Tibetans. Insist on an opportunity to deliver a brief, uncensored statement to the Chinese people. Attend worship services at a house church or other church that is not controlled by the State Administration for Religious Affairs. Present Chairman Hu Jintao with a list of political prisoners provided by the Congressional-Executive Commission on China and urge that they be released. American businesses also have suffered as a result of China's unscrupulous practices. Due to China's artificially low exchange rate, U.S. businesses are continuously undercut by Chinese imports. This has led to the loss of manufacturing jobs in America and a growing U.S. trade deficit, considerably weakening the U.S. economy. Chicagoland has been particularly hard hit by unfair Chinese competition, losing over 100,000 manufacturing jobs in the past decade. "China's authoritarian regime reaps the benefits of participation in the global economy without conforming to the norms and values upon which the international system was built," stated Lipinski. "I call on President Bush to do his utmost in his remaining days to hold the Chinese leadership accountable for their unconscionable actions." (August 7, 2008) ###
07.31.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the North Palos Fire Protection District, which serves Palos Hills and part of Hickory Hills, will be awarded $16,255 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). This program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. "First responders perform a difficult and dangerous job, regularly putting their lives on the line for the safety of others," said Rep. Lipinski. "I believe it is my responsibility to support the important mission and safety of first responders by securing necessary federal funds. This grant of over sixteen thousand dollars will allow the North Palos Fire Protection District to improve upon their already impressive record of service to Palos Hills, Hickory Hills, and surrounding communities, and in doing so, improve the safety and quality of life of the local residents. I am proud to announce this grant and I look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of the Third District's first responders." Since entering Congress in 2005, Congressman Lipinski has brought back over $3.3 million in federal funding for first responders in the Third Congressional District of Illinois. These funds are used to assist firefighters and other first responders in obtaining emergency vehicles, equipment, protective gear, training, and other resources. (July 31, 2008) ###
07.30.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) continued his efforts to combat record high gas prices by voting for H.R. 6604, the Commodity Markets Transparency and Accountability Act. This legislation would close the current Enron loophole that exempts all energy futures trading from oversight by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). Specifically, the bill would give the CFTC the authority to regulate and prevent excessive oil speculation in commodities and futures markets that has been linked to the high price of oil. The bill also would provide the CFTC with more staff to improve enforcement, prevent manipulation, and prosecute fraud. "There is something wrong with the system when oil speculators make millions if not billions of dollars off of the backs of American working families," said Lipinski. "Our pain at the pump is going to fatten their bottom line and fatten their wallets. I strongly support this effort today to immediately reduce the pain at the pump for American families." Rep. Lipinski has consistently supported efforts to lower gas prices and improve the energy future of the United States. Earlier this month, Rep. Lipinski voted to temporarily release nearly 10 percent of the oil from the government's stockpile (known as the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR)). He also voted for the "use it or lose it" bill requiring oil and gas companies to produce on lands that they currently lease or lose those leases. In addition, Rep. Lipinski voted for and the House passed bills to crack down on oil cartel price fixing, price gouging by oil companies, and market manipulation by speculators. The House also passed a public transit bill cosponsored by Rep. Lipinski that will bring more than $88 million to northeastern Illinois in 2008 and 2009 to reduce transit fares and expand transit services at public transit agencies, such as the Pace suburban bus, the CTA, and the Metra. As a strong supporter of public transportation, Rep. Lipinski is working with local officials to introduce weekend service on Metra's SouthWest Service. "Now more than ever it is clear that energy independence is crucial to America's security and prosperity," stated Lipinski. "Our efforts are helping to provide short term relief for America's families, along with the long term solutions for our future energy needs. I will continue fighting for a greener, more affordable, and less oil-dependent future to expand our economy and make us more secure." (July 30, 2008) ###
07.29.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced the inclusion of over $2 million in local projects in the preliminary federal budget for Fiscal Year (FY) 2009. The projects were included at the request of Congressman Lipinski, and they have been approved by the House Committee on Appropriations. "I am pleased I was able to include these projects in the initial stages," explained Lipinski. "While we still have a way to go before final approval by Congress and the President, I will continue to fight for federal funding for local and regional projects that will help improve our communities and this country." Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Bill $100,000 for the Village of Chicago Ridge - Police Department to upgrade law enforcement equipment, software, and technology; $100,000 for the Village of Forest Park - Police Department to install and upgrade law enforcement equipment and technology; $100,000 for the Village of Justice - Police Department to acquire new portable radio devices; and $200,000 for Cook County for Interoperable Safety and Emergency Communications Radios, which would enhance communications between local villages and municipalities during emergencies. Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill $250,000 for the Cook County Environmental Infrastructure Fund to make local environmental improvements and boost water development; and $500,000 for a feasibility study of the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River, also known as Bubbly Creek, to address problems of odor and water quality issues. Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill $168,000 for Seguin Services to provide employment and vocational training services for persons with disabilities. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill $150,000 for Catholic Charities in Chicago to provide outreach and employment training services for homeless veterans; $200,000 for the Children's Museum in Oak Lawn to provide educational programs for area children; and $300,000 for Oak Lawn Family Service to provide counseling services to area residents. (July 29, 2008) ###
07.28.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), a member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that Metra has agreed to develop a proposal by October 1, 2008 for a demonstration project to run weekend trains on the SouthWest Line. pictured above, Steve Schlickman, Executive Director of the RTA; Phil Pagano, Executive Director of Metra; Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03); and Chuck Allen, Superintendent of Norfolk Southern Railroad’s Chicago Transportation Coordination Office. Lipinski convened a meeting in Bridgeview today to discuss options for increasing service on Metra's SouthWest Service. The meeting was attended by Phil Pagano, Executive Director of Metra, local elected officials, freight railroads, and the Illinois Department of Transportation. The SouthWest line currently provides weekday commuter rail service from Chicago's Union Station to Manhattan, including stations in communities, such as Ashburn, Wrightwood, Oak Lawn, Chicago Ridge, Worth, Palos Heights, and Palos Park. "Metra's SouthWest Service serves a rapidly growing population and I have heard from my constituents and others who live along the line about the desire for weekend service," explained Lipinski. "With the high price of gas in Chicagoland, even more people are looking for affordable and convenient ways to get to downtown Chicago on the weekends. Unfortunately, residents who live along the SouthWest line who have a station practically in their backyard may have to drive 20 to 30 minutes to another Metra line. This is impracticable; there has to a workable solution." Metra's SouthWest Service has grown substantially over the past decade. Annual ridership grew from 1.6 million in 2000 to 2.4 million in 2007, and it has grown more since then. In 2006, the line was extended from Orland Park to Manhattan with financial assistance from the Federal Transit Administration. "I commend Phil Pagano for agreeing to take a serious look at weekend trains," said Lipinski. "And I look forward to seeing Metra's October 1 proposal. It will help bring weekend service one step closer to reality for many of my constituents. The history of the SouthWest Service shows that if you build it, they will come. There is no doubt in my mind that with weekend trains for Metra's SouthWest Service, if you run it, they will also come." Congressman Lipinski has been a leader in Congress to increase funding for public transportation. He was an original cosponsor and helped author H.R. 6052, Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008, a bill that would authorize $1.7 billion over two years for national public transportation needs. Illinois would stand to receive $200 million in federal transit funding over two years. H.R. 6052 passed the House on June 26, 2008 by a vote of 322-98 with Congressman Lipinski's strong support. (July 28, 2008) Local leaders attending the meeting included - IL Senator Edward Maloney IL Senator Christine Radogno IL Representative Jack McGuire Mayor Ed Gudziol, Worth Mayor Bill Borgo, Manhattan Joseph Clary, Director of Public and Intermodal Transportation, IDOT Stephen Schlickman, Executive Director, RTA Larry Deetjen, Village Manager, Oak Lawn Paul Grimes, Village Manager, Palos Park Patricia Jones, Village Administrator, Palos Park Marian Gibson, Village Administrator, Manhattan Jim Ford, Belt Railway Patrick O'Brien, Belt Railway Earl Wacker, CSX Railroad Chuck Allen, Norfolk Southern Railroad Jim Roots, Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad (July 28, 2008) ###
07.24.2008	On Wednesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the Berwyn South School District #100 is being awarded a $304,015 grant for this coming school year by the U.S. Department of Education. This grant, which is part of the Professional Development for Arts Educators Program, is likely to be renewed for two more years. "Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's public schools, especially on our arts programs," said Rep. Lipinski. "This grant of over three-hundred thousand dollars this year - and likely more than nine-hundred thousand dollars over the next three years - will allow educators in the Berwyn South School District to provide enhanced learning opportunities and to help develop a deep appreciation for the arts among our young students. The school district will be able to continue to build upon its already impressive record of service while improving the experience of students in school." The Professional Development for Arts Educators Program supports the implementation of high quality professional development model programs in elementary and secondary education for music, dance, drama, and visual arts educators. School districts are required to focus on the development, enhancement, or expansion of standards-based arts education programs or on the integration of standards-based arts instruction with other core academic area content. "I am proud to announce this grant award and I look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of the Third District's dedicated educators," said Rep. Lipinski. (July 24, 2008) ###
07.23.2008	Legislation Would Provide Congressional Consent and Approval to Great Lakes Compact Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined a bipartisan group of representatives in introducing a Joint Resolution that would grant congressional approval to the Great Lakes Compact. The Compact is an agreement signed by the eight Great Lakes states, including Illinois, to protect the lakes, improve water conservation, and encourage economic growth in the Great Lakes region. "The Great Lakes remain one of our most vital environmental and economic resources, particularly for the Chicagoland area," said Lipinski. "Preserving the sustainability of the Great Lakes and ensuring high environmental standards will improve our most important fresh water supply. And by encouraging sustainable economic development, we are charting a new course for our energy and economic futures." In 2005, the Council of Great Lakes Governors (CGLG), a partnership of the governors of the eight Great Lakes states and the Canadian provincial premiers of Ontario and Quebec, finalized the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact. The Compact is subject to approval by all Great Lakes States and the U.S. Congress. Specifically, the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact would: Encourage sustainable economic development and reasonable use of Basin waters; Ban any new diversions of water from the Basin with limited exceptions to communities near the Basin; Create clear goals and standards for communities to apply for exemption status or appeal decisions; Create a consistent standard of review for proposed uses of Basin water while allowing States the flexibility to develop and maintain water management programs; Develop regional goals and objectives for water conservation and efficiency and similar programs in each of the eight Great Lakes States; and Renew the strong commitment to continued public involvement in the implementation of the Compact. Congressman Lipinski has been a leader in Congress in protecting Lake Michigan and all of America's waters. Last year he helped fight back BP's plan to increase the dumping of pollution in Lake Michigan from a refinery in Whiting, IN. He also helped introduce the Great Lakes Water Protection Act to ban the dumping of sewage into Lake Michigan and he is a cosponsor of the Clean Water Restoration Act that would reinstitute the protections established by the Clean Water Act 35 years ago. "Now is the time for all of us, both within Congress and at the state and local levels, to step up to protect our greatest resource," continued Lipinski. "I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this bill that will provide the necessary congressional approval to the Compact to preserve the Great Lakes and encourage our economic growth." (July 23, 2008) ###
07.10.2008	Common-sense Solution to Health Care Crisis Has Broad Bipartisan, Bicameral Support Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined a bipartisan group of representatives in introducing H.R. 6444, the Healthy Americans Act, an innovative solution that would provide all Americans with access to affordable, quality, private health insurance and help rein-in health care costs. "American families continue to struggle with the skyrocketing cost of health care and more than 48 million Americans have no health insurance," said Lipinski. "Unfortunately, gridlock in Washington has blocked any comprehensive solution to America's health care crisis. That is why I am proud to be joining a bipartisan group of representatives and senators in introducing this innovative and workable plan that will reshape our health care system to ensure all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care." The Healthy Americans Act would: Ensure that all Americans will be able to afford coverage and receive care even if they lose or change their job Guarantee the availability of affordable health insurance by eliminating discrimination based on pre-existing conditions Preserve choices in health care Focus insurance companies on keeping Americans healthy by encouraging the practice of preventative medicine Contain the rising costs of health care by promoting competition and reducing existing inefficiencies, saving $1.48 trillion Generate an overall savings for taxpayers "Now is the time to take action and work toward implementing a more affordable, flexible, and comprehensive way to provide health care coverage for all Americans," stated Lipinski. "The Healthy Americans Act takes a common sense, market-based approach toward increasing health care options and saves money for taxpayers. The broad support for this bill across parties demonstrates the real possibility for implementing this innovative plan when the next president takes office. Reforming the American health care system is not an easy task, but we must take bold steps and we must get it done." (July 10, 2008) ###
07.01.2008	Joins Environmental Advocates to Promote Bill to Protect Lake Michigan and All American Waters With Chicagoland residents bound for the beach for Independence Day weekend, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined environmental advocates at the Shedd Aquarium to urge Congress to protect the health of all American waters by passing the Clean Water Restoration Act (H.R. 2421). The bill would affirm that all waters-from small feeder streams and wetlands to our nation's largest waters like the Great Lakes-are protected from pollution by the Clean Water Act. "In the past 35 years we have made great progress in cleaning up Lake Michigan and all of our nation's waters, principally because Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972," stated Lipinski. "But that progress and the health of this natural treasure are now being threatened due to recent murky Supreme Court decisions and administration policies. That is why I am a cosponsor of the Clean Water Restoration Act which would simply restore protections that existed for decades under the original Clean Water Act." The Clean Water Restoration Act would clarify that Clean Water Act protections apply broadly to American surface waters, including all wetlands and streams in the Great Lakes region-making clear that the Clean Water Act's primary purpose is to protect the nation's waters from pollution. Under new policies and court decisions, 59 percent of streams and 20 million acres of wetlands nationwide are at risk of unrestricted pollution. And in Illinois, U.S. EPA estimates that some 150,000 acres of wetlands that are critical to the health of the Great Lakes are vulnerable to losing Clean Water Act safeguards. "Pollution is not partisan and it knows no geographic boundaries between countries, states, cities, or congressional districts," said Lipinski. "And everyone has an interest in restoring the nation's waterways, whether you want to swim, fish, boat, lie on the beach, or - most importantly - just have clean water to drink. That is why we must all work together to restore the health and integrity of the nation's waters, and the Clean Water Restoration Act is an important step." In addition to Rep. Lipinski, the event was attended by Max Muller, Acting State Director of Environment Illinois; Christy Leavitt, Clean Water Advocate of Environment America; Joel Brammeier, Associate Director of the Alliance for the Great Lakes; Ann Alexander, Natural Resources Defense Council; Melanie Napoleon, Great Lakes Conservation Initiative Director of Shedd Aquarium; and John Gaudette of the Illinois Environmental Council. (July 1, 2008) ###
06.17.2008	Upcoming Transportation Reauthorization Could Provide Historic Funding for Local Projects Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) brought House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar (MN) to the area for a number of site visits and meetings with local officials to assess the transportation system. The Congressmen viewed the progress being made towards modernizing and improving local infrastructure with resources allocated in 2005 under the last federal transportation bill, SAFETEA-LU. This historic legislation provided $286.5 billion in transportation funding over five years, including an annual $1.2 billion for highways and $420 million for transit in Illinois. Next year, Congress is expected to reauthorize SAFETEA-LU, potentially resulting in more federal funds for Illinois transportation projects. "I am pleased to welcome Chairman Oberstar to America's transportation hub," said Rep. Lipinski. "As the crossroads of our country's freight rail lines, the intersecting point of several major highways, and the busiest aviation market in America, Chicagoland's transportation issues are America's transportation issues. And with the Chairman's strong support, our infrastructure has undergone significant upgrades in recent years. I look forward to continuing to work with him in considering the best way to move forward in light of the upcoming federal transportation bill, which could provide as much as half a trillion dollars in funding for surface transportation programs over the next five years." Congressman Lipinski, who is the only member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure from northeastern Illinois, secured $100 million in SAFETEA-LU for the CREATE program, a $1.5 billion public-private partnership aimed at reducing congestion and emissions in Chicagoland while also improving grade crossing safety and stimulating the regional economy. As one of only 25 congressionally designated projects of "National and Regional Significance," CREATE includes numerous improvements to both the local railroad infrastructure and the highway system, benefiting national and regional freight traffic, commuter traffic, intercity rail passengers, and local road traffic. "Congress recognized the importance of CREATE by allocating the program one of the single highest dollar amounts in SAFETEA-LU," explained Lipinski. "The upcoming reauthorization of SAFETEA-LU presents an opportunity for Congress to build on the progress we have already made. I am pleased that Chairman Oberstar could have an inside look at Chicagoland's infrastructure situation. The Chairman is the leading voice in setting the nation's transportation policy and I am grateful for his leadership, consideration, and support." Today's site visits allowed Lipinski and Oberstar to view several CREATE projects and transit facilities in the Chicago area, as well as discuss regional projects of importance like the planned Central Avenue bypass. The Congressmen made stops at Brighton Park, the Clearing Yard, the La Grange Metra Station, and also toured the CTA Orange and Blue Lines. Informational meetings were held with Metra and Pace Bus at the La Grange Village Hall and with CTA at O'Hare International Airport. (June 17, 2008) ###
06.11.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that Chicago Midway International Airport will receive a $2,214,674 federal grant to rehabilitate one of the airport's five runways. This grant, which was awarded through the Federal Aviation Administration, will be used to improve the airport's second largest runway, runway 04R/22L. "Midway is one of America's busiest airports and a major economic engine in the Third Congressional District," said Rep. Lipinski. "With nearly 20 million passengers passing through Midway last year alone, and with many Third District residents living and working in the surrounding communities, it is critical that air travel at Midway be as safe as possible. That is why I am proud to announce this grant. This $2.2 million will allow Midway to improve its airfield and continue its record of excellent service. And most importantly, a rehabilitated runway will help make Midway a safer airport for passengers and area residents." Congressman Lipinski is a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure where he serves on the Subcommittee on Aviation, which oversees and sets America's aviation policy. (June 11, 2008) ###
06.11.2008	Historic Legislation Stands to Benefit Chicagoland Commuters and Amtrak Today Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-03), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, helped pass H.R. 6003, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008. This historic legislation authorizes $14.9 billion for Amtrak over the next five years and provides significant resources to maintain and improve Chicago's current passenger rail service to cities such as Quincy, Carbondale, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and Detroit. It will also help commuters near Summit, Willow Springs, and all of Metra's Heritage Corridor Line by easing congestion. This bill will also aid the establishment of new passenger rail service in Illinois to places such as Rockford, the Quad Cities, and Peoria. "With record gas prices all across the country, more and more people are looking for affordable transportation options," explained Lipinski. "A modern passenger and commuter rail system can fill that need for Americans. But for far too long, the federal government simply has not made the necessary investments in our rail system. The unfortunate result is that we now have a 21st century economy running on a 19th century rail network. For Amtrak passengers across the country and most Metra commuters in Chicagoland, this has directly translated into frequent delays and limited service. In Illinois, problems are especially severe as Amtrak and Metra generally share already over-congested infrastructure with the freight railroads. Americans deserve better. Illinois residents deserve better. Today's landmark legislation is a huge step in the right direction and has the potential to bring our rail system on par with the modern passenger and commuter rail systems around the world." H.R. 6003 would provide $1.34 billion per year to Amtrak for capital grants and an average of $606 million per year for operating grants. In addition, this legislation would promote the development of State Passenger Corridors by providing a record $500 million per year in grants to states to pay for the capital costs of facilities and equipment needed to provide new or improved intercity passenger rail. Metra's Heritage Corridor Line, which shares tracks with Amtrak's Chicago-St. Louis route, may especially benefit as the bill contains a provision that could provide funding to reduce congestion on the Chicago-Joliet segment of that Amtrak route. "H.R. 6003 gives us a vision for the future, but most importantly, it will provide the necessary investments to help make our rail system the best in the world," explained Lipinski. "Better passenger and commuter rail service means less congestion on highways like I-55 and I-90/94. It means a cleaner environment. It means economic development. In Illinois, this could mean newer trains and better service along the existing routes, fewer delays and more options on the Heritage Corridor Line, and less congestion on the most popular intercity routes. I am proud to have helped pass this legislation and urge its speedy consideration in the Senate." (June 11, 2008) ###
06.05.2008	Today, House Science and Technology Committee Vice Chairman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass two bills to improve America's competitive and innovative edge in the world. The bills, which prioritize science, mathematics, and technology (STEM) education, and reauthorize the National Nanotechnology Initiative, are two additional steps that Congress is taking this year to assist Americans in confronting the increasingly competitive global economy. "With the passage of these bills we are stepping up our support of American students, teachers, researchers, scientists, and engineers, all of whom will ensure that we remain at the forefront of innovation and keep our nation secure and prosperous," stated Lipinski. "The STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) fields are vital to America's economic competitiveness, and today we are making them a national priority. By educating a broad pool of citizens in these critically important fields, we are ensuring a brighter future for the next generation of Americans." H.Con.Res. 366 will assist the United States in dedicating its resources to the STEM fields and promoting science education policy by making it a national priority to increase American capabilities in science, mathematics, and technology education. H.R. 5940 reauthorizes the National Nanotechnology Initiative that promotes world-class research and development (R&D) in the cutting-edge field of nanotechnology. The bill will increase support for nanotechnology R&D that could potentially create thousands of new jobs and lead to major breakthroughs in fields as diverse as energy, healthcare, and defense. "America's economic success has long been spurred by our world leadership in innovation and technology, but this leadership is being challenged and we must respond," said Lipinski. "These bills will help bring about a brighter tomorrow by investing more in education and in R&D. I believe that nanotechnology is one of the most important technological keys to America's economic future and to advancements that will revolutionize our way of life." Last year Rep. Lipinski had a seat on the Conference Committee that worked quickly to pass H.R. 2272, the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education and Science (COMPETES) Act. This groundbreaking legislation, led by Members of the Science and Technology Committee, included a package of competitiveness bills in response to recommendations in the 2005 National Academies report, Rising Above the Gathering Storm. (June 5, 2008) ###
06.04.2008	On Wednesday, June 4, 2008, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) announced that Chicago is one of four finalists to host the 2016 Summer Olympics. Tokyo, Madrid, and Rio de Janeiro are also still in contention. In response to the IOC's announcement, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement. ~~~~~ "Like all of Chicagoland, I was pleased to see that Chicago remains in strong contention to host the 2016 Olympic Games. The Olympics are an unrivaled cultural and sporting event, bringing the entire world together in peaceful competition. And a Chicago Olympics will bring tourism and revenue to the city, while increasing our international reputation." "Although much work remains to be completed, being included on the short-list of potential host cities is an important first step. As Chicagoland's only member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I look forward to continuing to work with city, state, and other federal officials to ensure that the Chicago area receives the transportation funding and other resources and support necessary to win this bid." Last October, Rep. Lipinski brought the Highway and Transit Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to Chicago for a hearing on the region's transportation needs for the Olympics and beyond. (June 4, 2008) ###
05.29.2008	Health Insurance for Life Act (H.R. 2047) Press Conference Statement ~ May 29, 2008 Northwestern Memorial Hospital's Prentice Women's Hospital Our economy has changed and today American workers can no longer count on having only one job for their entire career. In fact, American workers now average more than 10 jobs in a career. With the economy slowing down, more and more hard working Americans are seeing their jobs cut or their hours reduced. And as nearly 60% of the American workforce obtains health insurance through their place of employment or the employer of a family member, when a worker loses their job, they not only face a loss of wages - they also face the loss of health insurance. This is a big problem - The Center for Economic and Policy Research estimates that 4.2 million Americans could lose their insurance this year alone, and that's on top of the 47 million Americans already estimated to be without health insurance. Congress first addressed this problem in the 1980's by passing into law the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, or COBRA (signed into law in 1986). This legislation allows individuals to retain their health insurance for the first 18 months after losing or leaving a job. COBRA has helped keep the number of uninsured Americans down, ensuring more people have access to quality health care. Today, I stand in support of H.R. 2047, the Health Insurance for Life Act, which is legislation that would remove the limit of 18 months of extended healthcare coverage. If passed into law, this bill would allow people to continue to receive COBRA coverage until they turn 65, at which time Medicare will take over. By allowing people to retain COBRA benefits indefinitely, this bill will help reduce the number of uninsured Americans and also reduce some of the stress over the loss of health care coverage that is associated with losing or leaving a job. While this bill does not claim to fix all of the complex challenges facing America's health care system, it is a common sense, low cost step we can take right now to reduce the number of uninsured and make health care more affordable. I am proud to support this bill with Rep. Kirk and Rep Dent (R-PA), and I look forward to working toward its passage. (May 29, 2008) ###
05.22.2008	This week, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass 17 pieces of legislation aimed at supporting and honoring those who have served in the U.S. military, past and present. These pieces of legislation, which include tax breaks for veterans and improvements to veterans' health care, enjoyed overwhelming bipartisan support in the House of Representatives. "Next Monday, America will observe Memorial Day, a holiday set aside to remember those brave men and women who have died during military service to our country," said Rep. Lipinski. "But as we remember those brave individuals who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country, it is only right that we also recommit to supporting and honoring the men and women currently serving our nation and those veterans who are still with us." "We have made enormous strides this Congress in making sure that support for our troops does not end when they return home," said Rep. Lipinski. "Last year, I helped pass the biggest funding increase in the history of the VA, and this week I was proud to support these 17 pieces of legislation that honor and support our nation's servicemembers and veterans. We must continue to fight for these brave men and women who have so heroically fought for us." The 17 veteran and military related bills passed by the House of Representatives this week include: H.R. 3819, Veterans Emergency Care Fairness Act of 2007 - Cosponsored by Rep. Lipinski, this legislation requires the VA to pay for veterans emergency treatments at non-VA hospitals until that individual can be transferred to a VA facility. This bill ensures that veterans can receive emergency treatment at the closest medical facility available. H.R. 6081, The Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008 - This legislation contains several tax provisions intended to help veterans, military personnel, and their families, as well as other public servants such as volunteer firefighters. H.R. 5826, Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008 - This legislation provides an increase in the rate of compensation for disabled veterans and their families. H.Res. 986 - This resolution honors Vietnam POWs and calls for a full accounting of the 1,729 members of the Armed Forces who remain unaccounted for in Vietnam. H.Res. 1054 - This resolution honors the women who have served or are serving in the Armed Forces. (May 22, 2008) ###
05.21.2008	Tax Incentives Will Help Create Jobs, Protect Environment, and Encourage Investment in Clean Energy Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass sweeping energy legislation that will revolutionize America's energy economy by freeing the United States from its dependence on foreign oil, creating millions of new jobs, and reducing the threat of climate change. The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008 (H.R. 6049) would provide nearly $20 billion in tax incentives for renewable energy, carbon capture and sequestration projects, energy efficiency, and conservation. "America's current use of energy threatens our pocketbooks, our environment, and our national security," said Rep. Lipinski. "Americans are ready to chart a new, diverse energy future where we use domestically-produced, clean, renewable fuels in the most efficient manner possible. This bill will get us to that brighter future." Specifically, the Act includes billions of dollars in tax incentives to promote investments in clean, renewable energies such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, and hydropower technology. The legislation also would support plug-in hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technology, as well as give tax breaks to homeowners wishing to make energy efficient improvements to their homes. In addition to this bill, yesterday Rep. Lipinski voted for and the House passed legislation to crack down on oil price fixing by OPEC-controlled entities and oil companies. The bill, known as the Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act of 2008 (H.R. 6074), incorporates last year's House-passed NOPEC (No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels) Act and creates a Petroleum Industry Antitrust Task Force at the Justice Department to monitor gasoline price gouging and anticompetitive price discrimination. "With gas prices averaging over $4 per gallon in Chicago, our work this week is a significant victory for the pocketbooks of middle-class Americans, the long term security of our country, and the health of the environment," stated Lipinski. "I am pleased to have played a key role in passing these momentous bills, and I urge the Senate and President to take quick action in passing and signing them into law." In addition to H.R. 6049 and 6074, the House and Senate last week passed legislation to suspend oil shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) to help lower gas prices. On Monday, the U.S. Department of Energy suspended all oil purchases for the SPR for the remainder of 2008. (May 21, 2008) ###
05.15.2008	Helps Transportation Committee Pass Bill Providing $100 million to Illinois to Reduce Fares and Cut Emissions Today, during a mark-up in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass H.R. 6052, the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008. This bill will promote public savings through increased public transportation in the United States by authorizing $1.7 billion in funding over two years for transit agencies nationwide that are temporarily reducing transit fares or expanding transit services to meet the needs of the growing number of transit commuters. This bill would authorize $100 million in funds for Illinois, including nearly $45 million for northeast Illinois/northwest Indiana. "Having grown up riding the CTA and Metra, I know how important public transportation is to Chicagoland residents," said Rep. Lipinski. "And at a time when high gas prices are increasingly affecting the budgets of middle class families, it is important for the federal government to help ensure affordable and comprehensive public transportation is an available alternative. This legislation does just that by authorizing assistance to local transit agencies, including nearly $45 million for our region in each of the next two years." In addition to assisting local transit agencies reduce fares or expand service, this bill also increases the federal share for clean fuel and alternative fuel transit bus, ferry, or locomotive-related equipment or facilities, thereby assisting transit agencies in reducing emissions. With each motorist that switches to public transit already reducing carbon emissions by twenty pounds per day, these investments in environmentally friendly fuels promise to further improve air quality and cut carbon emissions. "By reducing carbon emissions, road congestion, and public transit costs, this legislation represents a win-win-win for Chicago area residents," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am proud to have helped pass this legislation through the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure." Today's legislation builds on Rep. Lipinski's strong history of supporting public transit in Chicagoland. Last year, Congressman Lipinski secured $500,000 in federal funds to assist in extending the CTA's Orange Line from its current terminus at Midway Airport to Ford City Mall. The extension would feature a new station with intermodal connections to nearby neighborhoods and southwest suburban communities. And Congressman Lipinski has secured over $100 million for the CREATE program, which will reduce area rail congestion, idling trains, and blocked crossings, and improve Metra Service. (May 15, 2008) ###
05.13.2008	On Saturday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) delivered the Keynote Address at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Engineering graduation ceremony. The UIC College of Engineering is widely recognized for its academic excellence with undergraduate and graduate programs in bioengineering, chemical engineering, civil and materials engineering, computer science, electrical and computer engineering, and mechanical and industrial engineering. In his speech, Rep. Lipinski highlighted important work undertaken since 2006 by the House of Representatives and the Science and Technology Committee, including efforts at improving science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education in the U.S., as well as legislation that puts the country on a path to a more energy independent future. "I am hopeful that some of you will take advantage of these new opportunities we have created [with the America COMPETES Act] and either become researchers who develop the next generation of technology or teachers who help lead the next generation of students," said Lipinski. "But everyone needs to play a role, because there are so many challenges that we face. I believe that the greatest challenge America faces is improving energy efficiency and developing clean, alternative sources of energy that will free us from our dependence on foreign oil and will combat global climate change. This will not be a simple task, instead requiring major changes in policy including vast, long-term investments in science and engineering that will lead to the development of innovative new technologies. These new technologies will depend on quality engineers and an engineering focus to provide cost effective and innovative solutions. I hope that one of you may help find the key technological advance that will transform our energy economy, and improve our national security, economic security, and environmental security." Rep. Lipinski holds a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from Northwestern University, a Masters in Engineering-Economic Systems from Stanford University, and a Ph.D. in Political Science from Duke University. His background in engineering allowed him to secure a seat on the House Committee on Science and Technology, on which he serves as Vice-Chairman. "A degree in engineering provides students with strong problem solving skills that allow them to transcend any career field they may want to enter," stated Lipinski. "My degrees in engineering taught me critical analytical and problem-solving skills that have been invaluable as a Member of Congress. I am certain that an engineering degree from UIC has prepared the graduates for a lifetime of accomplishments and contributions to the world." Click here to read Congressman Lipinski's commencement speech. (May 13, 2008) ###
05.13.2008	On Monday, May 12, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) brought former Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives J. Dennis Hastert (R) and former Congressman Glenn Poshard (D) to Bedford Park to hear from local leaders about the need for state funding for local transportation projects. As Co-Chairs of the Illinois Works Coalition, Hastert and Poshard have been traveling around the state to hear about local infrastructure needs that could be funded by a state Capital Bill. Daniel Lipinski, J. Dennis Hastert, and Glenn Poshard at the Round-Table Meeting The top local transportation priorities discussed at the meeting by Rep. Lipinski and other local leaders were funding to continue the CREATE Rail Modernization Program and funding to implement ground breaking for the Central Avenue Bypass. "These two projects are vitally important to the Third District and the state," said Lipinski. "CREATE is desperately needed to ease congestion on our rail lines and on our roads; it will save time and money for motorists, and help speed passenger rail service. And the Central Avenue Bypass is a long-needed solution to ease the congestion on Cicero and Harlem Avenues and promote economic growth." "The fact that the only meeting of Illinois Works in northeastern Illinois took place in the Third District demonstrates the fact that these transportation projects are of critical importance not only locally but to the state," said Lipinski. "I am hopeful that the state comes through with the needed funding so that when the federal transportation bill is considered in Congress next year I will be able to make the best case possible for bringing back to the district even more than the $126 million I secured in the last bill." Local leaders attending the meeting were State Senator Louis S. Viverito, 11th District; State Representative Robert S. Molaro, 21st District; Mayor David Brady, Village of Bedford Park; Mayor Steve Landek, Village of Bridgeview; Alderman Michael R. Zalewski, 23rd Ward, Chicago; President Dennis Gannon, Chicago Federation of Labor; Clayton Harris, IDOT; President Anita Cummings, United Business Association of Midway; President Mary Ann Dybala, Garfield Ridge Chamber of Commerce; and Principal James Muting, St. Laurence High School. (May 13, 2008) ###
05.09.2008	Yesterday, Congressman Dan Lipinski's (IL-03) bill that will help create more American jobs in the metals industries and protect the environment was signed into law. This legislation reauthorizes the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 and provides research funding to make American steel and other metal manufacturing processes more efficient and environmentally friendly. The Metals Initiative originally passed the House last year as H.R. 1126 and passed the U.S. Senate last month as part of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act (S. 2739). "Now more than ever, American industries must be fully prepared to confront the numerous challenges they face," stated Lipinski, whose father-in-law lost his job as a steelworker in Johnstown, Pennsylvania when his plant closed due to foreign competition. "This Act will help develop the innovative tools needed to grow valuable American jobs and businesses, assure a domestic supply of materials for national defense, and protect the environment." Specifically, the Lipinski legislation reauthorizes the Metals Initiative at $12 million per year through 2012 to fund advanced metals research. As a result of this legislation, American metals industries will get help developing and implementing cost-saving and environmentally-friendly modern technology through critical grants to universities and other research institutions. Through the collaborative research efforts of American companies, the Department of Energy, and institutions of higher education, this program has produced several successful and important technological breakthroughs that have resulted in important environmental and energy savings, as well as innovations that help American defense. "As a manufacturer whose competitiveness is closely tied to the cost and availability of steel and aluminum, I applaud this measure," stated Zach Mottl, Purchasing Manager of Atlas Tool and Die Works, Inc. in Lyons, Illinois. "We've seen aluminum prices go up around 80% during the past few years. At the same time, we have faced unfair foreign competition in which raw materials and other factors of production are often 'subsidized' by foreign governments who have invested in the latest technologies. Measures like H.R. 1126, which help reduce the cost of domestic manufacturing and level our global playing field, are great for industry, domestic security, and jobs." "As Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology, I believe that this is exactly the type of research that we need to be promoting," stated Lipinski. "This will help put the world's greatest universities and research institutions to work in creating good paying American jobs in an environmentally friendly way." (May 9, 2008) ###
05.08.2008	Bill Would Correct Bureaucratic Error and Allow Corina Turcinovic to Stay in U.S. Today, the House Subcommittee on Immigration unanimously approved H.R. 5030, a bill introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) that would allow Corina Turcinovic to remain in the United States and apply for permanent legal residency. The legislation is now cleared for consideration by the full House Committee on the Judiciary. "The bipartisan and unanimous agreement on this bill reflects the unique circumstances surrounding Corina's case," said Rep. Lipinski. "If it had not been for mistakes made by the government, Corina would have been a legal resident long ago and none of this would have been necessary. Today's action represents a significant step towards correcting those mistakes and I thank Chairwoman Lofgren and Ranking Member Steve King and all the members of the Immigration Subcommittee for passing this legislation." Mrs. Turcinovic entered the United States legally in 1990 when her then-fiancé, Maro Turcinovic, was paralyzed after being hit by a car in New Jersey. Maro was soon transferred to Chicago for rehabilitation care, and Corina - having been given permission by immigration authorities to stay and care for her injured fiancé - came with him. Over the next 14 years, Corina would spend nearly every hour attending to the health needs of Maro, and in 1996, the couple was married. Maro was going through the process of becoming a naturalized citizen, but mistakes by the government prevented the process from being completed before complications stemming from Maro's injuries claimed his life. Because Maro did not become a citizen prior to his death, Corina could not apply for permanent legal status under the expedited procedures available to spouses and widows of U.S. citizens. To help correct this government mistake, Rep. Lipinski introduced a bill on Corina's behalf on January 16, 2008. On January 22, last minute efforts of Rep. Lipinski as well as Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) played a critical role in stopping Corina's deportation as she was being driven to O'Hare Airport by immigration officials. (May 8, 2008) ###
05.07.2008	Today, Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-03) praised enactment of H.R. 5715, the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008, which was signed into law this morning by President Bush. This bill, which passed the House of Representatives with Rep. Lipinski's strong support, will help ensure that students and parents have continued access to financial aid for college costs, despite current turmoil in the U.S. credit market. "As a former college professor, I know how critical a college education is and I am committed to ensuring our students and families have access to federal financial aid that is critical to paying for that education," said Rep. Lipinski. "This new legislation, along with the federal loan safeguards that already exist, will help ensure that students and families will continue to be able to access the low-cost loans they need for college, regardless of the state of credit markets." Specifically, H.R. 5715 increases the annual loan limits on federal unsubsidized student loans by $2,000 for all students, and increases the total loan limits over the full course of a student's education to $31,000 for dependent undergraduates and to $57,500 for independent undergraduates. It also gives parents the option to defer repayment until up to six months after their children leave school, giving families more flexibility in hard economic times. In addition, the bill addresses those families suffering from the effects of the mortgage crisis. The legislation helps struggling homeowners pay for college by making sure that short-term delinquencies in mortgage payments do not prohibit otherwise eligible parents from being able to borrow parent PLUS loans, making it possible for parents who are being strained by the current housing market to secure loans for their children. "Making college more affordable is particularly important at a time when the costs of attending college continue to skyrocket," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am proud to have played a role in accomplishing this victory for America's middle class families, and I will continue to work to ensure that financial barriers do not prevent qualified students from pursuing higher education." (May 7, 2008) ###
05.01.2008	Cosponsors Resolution Condemning Trade, Labor, and Environmental Abuses Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement announcing he has signed on as a cosponsor of H.Res.925 condemning China for its unacceptable business practices. The resolution, which was introduced by Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), has 23 bipartisan cosponsors. ~~~~~ "China has continuously flouted international standards in its business practices and deserves to be held publicly accountable for its actions. For too long, Americans have been victims of unsafe Chinese products, millions of which have been recalled in the last year. These recalled products have included toys, cribs and strollers. And the problem continues. Just this month, U.S. researchers identified China as the source of a chemical contaminant in the blood-thinner Heparin which has led to at least 81 deaths. "American businesses have also suffered as a result of China's unscrupulous practices. Due to China's artificially low exchange rate, U.S. businesses are continuously undercut by Chinese imports. This has led to the loss of manufacturing jobs in America and a growing U.S. trade deficit, considerably weakening the U.S. economy. Chicagoland has been particularly hard hit by unfair Chinese competition, losing over 100,000 manufacturing jobs in the past decade. "And in China, labor and environmental conditions remain abysmal. Last June, it was discovered that hundreds of people in China, including many women and children, had been forced to work in brick kilns. These workers often suffered beatings and confinement. And Chinese pollution has become infamous, tarnishing not only their local environment, but threatening the global environment. The pollution in China is so bad that several Olympic athletes have expressed concern for their health in the run up to the Beijing Olympics this summer. "Incidents such as these are unacceptable. We should not be silent about a government that shows little regard for labor rights, environmental protections, or consumer safety. That is why I am proud to cosponsor H.Res.925 which condemns China for its record on these issues. Our economy, environment, and consumers are at risk." (May 1, 2008)? ###
04.24.2008	Helps Pass Provision Regulating Ballast Water Discharges that Threaten Lakes Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass a provision that will protect our nation's waterways, including the Great Lakes, from invasive species. The provision, which was passed as part of H.R. 2830, the Coast Guard Authorization of 2008, would ensure that by 2015 no ballast water discharged by ships in U.S. water will contain viable living organisms. "The cost of invasive species on our economy and ecosystem is enormous," said Rep. Lipinski. "Zebra mussels in the Great Lakes have decimated fish populations while causing thick and sometimes toxic algae blooms. By some estimates, we spend $100 to $400 million annually just trying to control these mussels. Fortunately, today's legislation will significantly reduce the future threat of invasive species such as zebra mussels, and I am proud to have helped pass this bill." Ballast water is taken onto or discharged from a ship as it loads or unloads its cargo, to accommodate changes in its weight. However, organisms often also get taken on with the ballast water. If that ballast water is later discharged into another body of water, the organisms on board will be introduced into a new environment and could become invasive species. The United States Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 30% of invasive species in the Great Lakes, including Zebra mussels, were first introduced through ballast water. To prevent future incidents of invasive species, H.R. 2830 would require that all ships conduct ballast water exchange operations at least 200 miles off U.S. shore. The bill would also mandate that all vessels have a water treatment system that meets international standards. "This is a common sense provision that will improve the environment, protect native species, and ensure that resources like the Great Lakes continue to be productive and enjoyable for future generations," said Rep. Lipinski. "I hope that the Senate passes this bill quickly and I look forward to continuing to work to protect our nation's waters." (April 24, 2008) ###
04.17.2008	Legislation Increases Student Loan Limits and Provides Greater Repayment Flexibility Today, Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped the House of Representatives pass H.R. 5715, the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008. The bill will help ensure that students and parents have continued access to financial aid for college costs, despite current turmoil in the U.S. credit market. "As a former college professor, I know how vital a college education is and I am committed to ensuring our students and families have access to federal financial aid that is critical to paying for that education," said Rep. Lipinski. "This new legislation, along with the federal loan safeguards that already exist, will help ensure that students and families will continue to be able to access the low-cost loans they need for college, regardless of the state of credit markets." Specifically, H.R. 5715 increases the annual loan limits on federal unsubsidized student loans by $2,000 for all students, and increases the aggregate loan limits (the total loan limit over the course of a student's education) to $31,000 for dependent undergraduates and to $57,500 for independent undergraduates. It also gives parents the option to defer repayment until up to six months after their children leave school, giving families more flexibility in hard economic times. In addition, the bill addresses those families suffering from the effects of the mortgage crisis. The legislation helps struggling homeowners pay for college by making sure that short-term delinquencies in mortgage payments do not prohibit otherwise eligible parents from being able to borrow parent PLUS loans, making it possible for parents who are being strained by the current housing market to secure loans for their children. "Making college more affordable is particularly important at a time when the costs of attending college continue to skyrocket," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am proud to have a played a role in accomplishing this victory for America's middle class families, and I will continue to work to ensure that financial barriers do not prevent qualified students from pursuing higher education." (April 17, 2008) ###
04.16.2008	Today, at a ceremony held at the White House, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped welcome Pope Benedict XVI to the United States. The Pope is the spiritual leader of the Roman Catholic Church and the head of state of Vatican City. This is Pope Benedict's first apostolic visit to the United States. "I am happy to help welcome Pope Benedict to Washington and proud to be a part of this historical event," said Rep. Lipinski. "As a Roman Catholic, I know how important the Pope's visit is to the one-quarter of Americans that belong to the Catholic Church. Anytime the Pope visits the United States it is truly a momentous event; I wish Pope Benedict a successful trip." Pope Benedict will spend the next two days in Washington, D.C. meeting with the President and Congressional leaders as well as Catholic leaders. Rep. Lipinski and his wife Judy will be attending a public Mass tomorrow morning at the stadium of the Washington Nationals. On Friday, the Pope will head to New York City to address the United Nations before celebrating a second public Mass at Yankee Stadium. In honor of the Pope's visit, Congressman Dan Lipinski cosponsored and helped pass H.Res.838, a resolution which officially welcomes the Pope to the United States on behalf of the House of Representatives. Rep. Lipinski is also serving as a co-chair on the Congressional Host Committee for the National Catholic Prayer Breakfast. This breakfast, being held Friday morning, will feature several Catholic theologians and will be attended by the President, among others. (April 16, 2008) ###
04.15.2008	Administration Must Put Concerns of Airline Passengers and Workers First In response to last night's announcement that Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines have agreed to a merger, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) once again called on the Administration to put the needs of airline passengers and workers first when considering merger proposals. The potential Delta-Northwest merger would result in the world's largest carrier and could spur further mergers in the airline industry. "As the Department of Transportation and the Attorney General examine this merger, they should carefully consider its potential impact on airline workers and the flying public," said Rep. Lipinski. "Past airline mergers have resulted in inefficiencies, fewer routes to underserved areas, and disruptions in the airline workforce. The Administration must consider the full cost of airline mergers when looking at this proposal and not just the potential Wall Street profits." In March, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) was joined by Rep. Steven LaTourette (R-OH) and 45 other members of Congress in sending a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey and Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters urging careful examination of airline mergers. The letter, which was authored by Rep. Lipinski, highlights several problems stemming from previous airline mergers and requests that the Attorney General and Secretary of Transportation carefully consider the interests of the flying public and airline employees when evaluating any airline consolidations. "The American flying public deserves the best airline service possible, and that means guaranteeing real choices in air travel," said Rep. Lipinski. "I will continue to monitor this potential merger while considering the full range of legislative options to protect the interests of airline workers and the American flying public." In addition to Representatives Lipinski and LaTourette, the other 45 cosigners of the letter include: Neil Abercrombie, Jason Altmire, Joe Baca, Brian Baird, Corrine Brown, Michael Capuano, Russ Carnahan, Steve Cohen, Danny Davis, Peter DeFazio, Lloyd Doggett, Keith Ellison, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, Charles Gonzalez, Al Green, John Hall, Phil Hare, Maurice Hinchey, Mazie Hirono, Tim Holden, Jessie Jackson Jr., Eddie Bernice Johnson, Timothy Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, Zoe Lofgren, Betty McCollum, Thaddeus McCotter, James McGovern, Michael Michaud, Tim Murphy, Grace Napolitano, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Donald Payne, Nick Rahall, Laura Richardson, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Bobby Rush, Tim Ryan, Linda Sanchez, John Shimkus, Hilda Solis, Zachary Space, Betty Sutton, and Timothy Walz. (April 15, 2008) ###
04.09.2008	Urges China to uphold Human Rights Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass H.Res. 1077, a resolution in the House of Representatives calling on the government of China to end its crackdown on Tibetan protestors and fulfill its obligation to improve human rights for all its citizens. This resolution comes after several weeks of protests, riots, and unrest in Tibet, where many continue to push for independence from China. "I applaud the courage of the Tibetans who have chosen to stand up against the government of China and demand freedom and greater rights," said Rep. Lipinski. "Now it is time for the rest of the world to stand up with Tibet and make clear that we oppose China's violent response to the Tibetan protests and are determined to support a peaceful resolution. This legislation is a good first step in stating the will of the American Congress. I am hopeful that China is listening." Tibet is a mountainous region in Central Asia and the historical home of the Dalai Lama. Shortly after the Communists came to power in China in 1949, Tibet was conquered by Chinese forces and the Dalai Lama was forced into exile. The ensuing decades have witnessed several uprisings in the region and over the last three weeks, Tibetan monks have once again led a series of protests against the Chinese government's rule and the lack of cultural and political freedom. These protests have been met with a violent response from Chinese authorities resulting in several deaths. "When China was awarded the 2008 Summer Olympics the Chinese government made a commitment to improve human rights," said Rep. Lipinski. "Unfortunately, that has clearly not happened. I am hopeful that the unrest in Tibet and the protests against the Chinese government's strong-arm tactics we are seeing around the world will prove to be the pressure that finally forces China's government to change. The lives of Tibetans, religious minorities, and political dissenters in China may depend on it." (April 9, 2008) ###
04.09.2008	Calls for Further Action to Protect Airline Passenger Rights Today, during a hearing in the House Aviation Subcommittee, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) pressed airline and Department of Transportation officials to do more to improve service for airline customers. "As a frequent flier I know all too well the frustrations that Americans experience with air travel," said Rep. Lipinski. "Just two days ago the Aviation Institute's annual survey of airline passengers confirmed further deterioration in air service, noting that complaints are up 60% and that more than one in four flights are either cancelled or delayed. This is unacceptable." The House of Representatives passed H.R. 2881, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2007 last September. This bill, which is still being considered by the Senate, sets forth the nation's aviation policy and spending priorities. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Lipinski was instrumental in the drafting of this legislation including successfully pushing for the inclusion of several provisions designed to specifically protect the rights of airline passengers. "As Congress works to pass the new FAA Reauthorization bill, we must make sure that we do more to protect the rights of airline passengers," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I worked hard to make sure that the House passed an FAA Reauthorization bill that will protect the flying public, including establishing an Advisory Committee for Consumer Protection within the Department of Transportation. The Senate needs to follow suit." The hearing also allowed Rep. Lipinski to raise concerns about recent merger discussions between several major airlines. Although the last major merger occurred in 2005, the affected airlines are still struggling to integrate their workforces and eliminate inefficiencies. These integration problems are believed to have led to increased incidences of lost luggage and flight delays. "History has shown that airline mergers have proven detrimental to airline workers and the flying public," said Rep. Lipinski. "It is irresponsible to allow greater consolidations if they will only make matters worse. I have sent a letter – cosigned by 47 of my colleagues – to the Secretary of Transportation and the Attorney General asking them to closely analyze any proposed merger, and pay careful attention to the consequences such a merger would have on airline employees and the American flying public." (April 9, 2008) ###
04.08.2008	Urges Colleagues to Vote against the Trade Bill Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) strongly criticized the President's decision to send the U.S. – Colombia Trade Agreement to Congress without Congressional support, and urged his colleagues to vote against the trade deal. This decision by the President represents an unprecedented decision to forgo established protocols dictating that the President first consult Congress before submitting a trade agreement for a vote. "It is simply reprehensible that the President would push such a trade deal at a time when middle-class American families are already feeling the effects of a slumping economy," said Rep. Lipinski. "This trade agreement would expose Americans to more economic uncertainty and add to the job loss and wage stagnation that has occurred since the implementation of NAFTA. I strongly condemn the President's decision to force a vote on this bill and I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this agreement when it is brought before the full House of Representatives for a vote." NAFTA, the trade agreement between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, was hailed as a victory for America's economy when it was implemented in January of 1994. However, since its implementation, outsourcing from the United States to Mexico and Canada has directly led to a net loss of 879,280 American jobs including over 47,000 jobs in Illinois. During the same period, real wages for most working Americans have remained stagnant. In addition to job loss concerns, however, much of the opposition to the Colombia trade deal stems from Colombia's reputation as the most dangerous country in the world to be a union member. In 2007, nearly 40 union members were murdered in Colombia and another 11 have already been killed this year. Rep. Lipinski and others have gone on record opposing any trade deal with Colombia while such human rights abuses exist. "Colombia has a shocking record of intimidation and violence towards labor leaders, and an equally appalling record of failing to fully investigate and end those abuses," said Rep. Lipinski. "President Bush should be working with Colombian leaders to protect worker rights and investigate abuses, not exasperating the problem by forcing through a trade agreement with no real labor or human rights provisions." The U.S. – Colombia Trade Agreement was negotiated under the President's fast-track trade authority. This authority requires Congress to hold a vote on any trade agreement within 90 days of its submission to Congress by the President. It also prohibits Congress from filibustering or amending the trade agreement. Although the President's ability to negotiate new agreements under fast-track authority expired in July 2007, the authority's provisions still apply to agreements such as the Colombia Trade Agreement that were negotiated prior to the expiration. (April 8, 2008) ###
04.03.2008	Legislation Provides Critical Funding for Fire Departments and First Responders Today, Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass H.R. 4847, the U.S. Fire Administration Reauthorization Act of 2008. This legislation extends authorization of the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA) until 2012, and reauthorizes the U.S. Fire Administrator to continue to provide grants to state and local fire departments. Some of these funds are disbursed through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, which provides vital federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of local first responders and the safety of our communities. "The first responders of our communities perform a difficult and dangerous job, regularly putting their lives on the line for the safety of others," stated Rep. Lipinski. "This bill will continue an important grant program that has been invaluable to so many of our local first responders. I recently met with the USFA's Assistant Administrator Gregory Cade to discuss critical needs of the Third District and I will continue to work with him to improve the safety and quality of life of local residents." Since entering Congress in 2005, Rep. Lipinski has brought back over $3.2 million in federal funding for first responders in the Third Congressional District of Illinois, including the communities of Berwyn, Bridgeview, Brookfield, Burbank, Chicago Ridge, Hometown, Justice, LaGrange, La Grange Highlands, LaGrange Park, Lyons, Merrionette Park, North Riverside, Oak Lawn, Palos Hills, Riverside, Stickney, Western Springs, and Willow Springs. "As a proud cosponsor of this legislation I am pleased with today's action in the House and look forward to swift passage in the Senate," stated Lipinski. (April 3, 2008) ###
04.03.2008	Promises Increased Oversight of FAA to Protect Airline Safety Today, in an Oversight and Investigations Hearing held by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) called for a comprehensive review of the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) airline safety inspection process. The hearing follows an extensive investigation undertaken by the Committee that revealed lapses in airplane safety inspections which appear to have resulted from a dangerously cozy relationship between FAA inspectors and the airlines they oversee. "The FAA is specifically charged by Congress to ensure the safety of the flying public, but this investigation demonstrates that they have lost sight of that mission," said Rep. Lipinski. "The FAA must serve the safety of the public, not the desires of the airlines. I strongly urge the FAA to conduct a thorough review of its current safety inspection practices, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to ensure the FAA is fulfilling its airline safety responsibilities." Today's hearing featured two FAA inspectors who acted as whistleblowers in alerting the Committee to the apparent collusion between certain FAA officials and the airlines. In the testimony they presented, these whistleblowers provided details of an FAA culture that discourages fining or reprimanding airlines for violations of FAA regulations. They also discussed the often friendly relationships between FAA management and airline officials that may have led to lax standards. "My district is home to Midway Airport and O'Hare Airport is nearby," said Rep. Lipinski. "So when we talk about airline safety, it's important to remember that were not just talking about the safety of the flying public. We're also talking about the millions of people, such as my constituents, who have countless flights passing overhead each day. Consequently, the safety of my constituents and the flying public depends on the FAA doing its job, and I intend to make sure they do so." Since news of this hearing broke last month, several major U.S. airlines have voluntarily grounded much of their fleets to undergo updated safety inspections. Many analysts believe these groundings represent preemptive action by the airlines to avoid costly fines levied by an FAA eager to prove to Congress that it can carry out its airline safety inspection mission. "Nearly every major airline seems to be playing catch-up on safety inspections that should have been taking place all along," said Rep. Lipinski. "As a result, airline customers are paying the price in delayed and cancelled flights. In the long-term though, I hope we will be able to look back at today's hearing as a turning point in FAA practices and an important milestone in improving the safety of air travel." (April 3, 2008) ###
03.13.2008	Urges Federal Transportation Secretary and Attorney General to Carefully Examine Airline Mergers Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was joined by Rep. Steven LaTourette (R-OH) and 45 other members of Congress in sending a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey and Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters urging careful examination of airline mergers. The letter, which was authored by Rep. Lipinski, highlights several problems stemming from previous airline mergers and requests that the Attorney General and Secretary of Transportation carefully consider the interests of the flying public and airline employees when evaluating any airline consolidations. "The flying public and airline workers have not been well served by past airline mergers," said Rep. Lipinski. "These mergers have resulted in more frequent delays and lost luggage as well as fewer choices and higher prices for consumers. Mergers have also hurt airline workers, resulting in lost jobs and pensions. I am asking the Attorney General and the Secretary of Transportation to work with the many Members of Congress concerned about this issue to ensure quality air travel." Recent news reports have linked Delta and Northwest airlines in merger talks, and there is speculation that several more mergers could follow. The Attorney General and the Secretary of Transportation will have primary responsibility in examining any merger proposal and ensuring fairness in the air industry. "The American flying public deserves the best airline service possible, and that means guaranteeing real choices in air travel," said Rep. Lipinski. "Instead of seeking another round of super-mergers that only benefit Wall Street interests, airlines should be focused on meeting the needs of consumers. I will continue to monitor developments in the airline industry and, if necessary, draft legislation to protect the interests of the flying public. I am hopeful that this letter will prompt the executive branch to responsibly exercise its oversight of any airline mergers." In addition to Representatives Lipinski and LaTourette, the other 45 cosigners of the letter include: Neil Abercrombie, Jason Altmire, Joe Baca, Brian Baird, Corrine Brown, Michael Capuano, Russ Carnahan, Steve Cohen, Danny Davis, Peter DeFazio, Lloyd Doggett, Keith Ellison, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, Charles Gonzalez, Al Green, John Hall, Phil Hare, Maurice Hinchey, Mazie Hirono, Tim Holden, Jessie Jackson Jr., Eddie Bernice Johnson, Timothy Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, Zoe Lofgren, Betty McCollum, Thaddeus McCotter, James McGovern, Michael Michaud, Tim Murphy, Grace Napolitano, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Donald Payne, Nick Rahall, Laura Richardson, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Bobby Rush, Tim Ryan, Linda Sanchez, John Shimkus, Hilda Solis, Zachary Space, Betty Sutton, and Timothy Walz. The text of the letter follows. ~~~~~ Michael B. Mukasey Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Mary E. Peters Secretary of Transportation U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Attorney General Mukasey & Secretary Peters: We are contacting you concerning recent reports of potential consolidations within the airline industry this year. As discussions continue, and as additional consolidations are contemplated, we intend to closely monitor any proposal to scrutinize its potential impact to airline employees and the American flying public. Given the lackluster results of previous consolidations, we are strongly concerned that future mergers could result in diminished service to small and medium size cities, job losses, less competition, higher fares, and fewer options for consumers. This is something our economy cannot afford this year. As you know, US Airways merged with America West Airlines in 2005. Yet three years later, many outstanding issues are still pending with limited possibilities for resolution. For example, US Airways has not finalized a merger of the work forces of the two airlines, nor has the fleet service operation at the combined carrier been integrated. The failure to merge these groups has resulted in employees at the same airport doing the same job but working under different work rules and receiving dissimilar wages and benefits. These issues have resulted in inefficiencies and have likely contributed to degradation of customer service performance including lost bags and flight delays. We are concerned that such outstanding issues still exist, and examples such as these should be weighed heavily when considering future airline consolidations. This leads us to question how future mergers will result in any net benefits to the public. We strongly believe that it is vitally important to look at what types of impacts a potential airline merger would have on employees and the American flying public. Given the questions surrounding the impacts from past airline mergers we intend to closely scrutinize any future mergers and consolidations within the airline industry. We would urge you to carefully evaluate consolidation proposals to ensure they are not solely based on corporate interests. Rather, any consolidation must promote and protect the interests of the airline employees and the American flying public. With the potential of congressional hearings, we certainly look forward to a vigorous and robust debate on this issue. As the situation develops, we would also be open to the possibility of legislative options that could help protect the public interest while at the same time promote the economic competitiveness of the industry. Thank you for your time and attention, and we look forward to working with you on this important issue. (March 13, 2008) ###
03.10.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement urging the Senate and President to quickly take action to make the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act law. This legislation, which the House of Representatives passed on February 27th, would provide $18.1 billion in tax incentives for alternative energy and home energy efficiency by eliminating tax breaks for oil companies. ~~~~~ "On February 27th, the House of Representatives took an historic step towards protecting our environment and securing our nation's future energy independence by passing the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act. This bill, which I was proud to cosponsor and vote for, provides critical tax incentives to spur investment in and the use of alternative energies, as well as providing tax breaks to home owners who improve the energy efficiency of their homes. I urge the Senate and the President to act quickly to make this legislation law." "The need for investment in alternative energies is clear. Our current dependence on fossil fuels has resulted in dangerous emissions of greenhouse gases and other toxic gases, left us reliant on increasingly volatile and hostile foreign regimes, and led to record high oil and gasoline prices with no relief in sight. Americans are ready for the energy alternatives this bill will provide." "This legislation includes $18.1 billion in tax incentives to promote investments in clean, renewable, alternative energy. Among other things, this bill extends tax credits for investments in solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, and hydropower technology. This legislation would also support plug-in hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technology as well as homeowners wishing to make energy efficient improvements to their house." "And just as important, this bill completely pays for itself by eliminating some of the tax breaks currently extended to oil companies. Our country should be supporting alternative energies of the future, not prolonging our dependence on oil – especially at a time when oil companies are earning record profits." "The benefits of the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act are obvious and critically needed. I am hopeful that the Senate and the President will take quick action to pass and sign this legislation into law. Our energy independence and environment depend on it." (March 10, 2008) ###
03.06.2008	Lipinski Honored for Efforts to Grant Citizenship to Casimir Pulaski Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) was honored by the National Polish Center and the Veterans of Foreign Wars for his efforts to secure citizenship for Casimir Pulaski. Pulaski, a soldier of Polish descent, was an American Revolutionary War hero who died fighting for U.S. independence during the Siege of Savannah. Congressman Lipinski delivered remarks on Pulaski during a reception held in the soldier’s honor. “Casimir Pulaski was a remarkable soldier, a trusted friend of George Washington, and the founder of the American cavalry,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This great man made the ultimate sacrifice in the fight for our independence and deserves to be a citizen of the country he fought so hard to see born. I am proud to help lead the effort to grant citizenship to Casimir Pulaski and I am hopeful that Congress will soon take action on this important initiative.” Already an accomplished soldier from years of campaigns against Russia, Pulaski arrived in the U.S. colonies in 1777 eager to join the Americans in their fight against the British forces. After bravely serving on George Washington’s staff during the Battle of Brandywine, Pulaski was made a Brigadier General and commander of the entire American cavalry. Sadly, Pulaski died in 1779 while heroically fighting to free Savannah from British occupation and didn’t live to see his dream of American independence realized. In each of his two terms in Congress, Congressman Lipinski has helped introduce legislation that would grant Pulaski citizenship posthumously. And this week, Congressman Lipinski joined with Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) and Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) in authoring a letter to the House Judiciary Committee urging that Committee to promptly consider the Pulaski legislation. Only after the Judiciary Committee clears the Pulaski legislation can it be considered by the full House of Representatives. “Casimir Pulaski’s bravery and military skill have left a lasting impression on our country that can still be seen in the organization of our fighting forces and the numerous counties, cities and streets across the country that are named in his honor,” said Rep. Lipinski. “Now, we must take the step to ensure that Pulaski is remembered not just as a great war hero, but as a great American war hero.” (March 6, 2008) ###
02.13.2008	Cites Need to Improve Education to Continue American Technological Leadership Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Dan Lipinski's (IL-03) resolution, H.Res. 917, Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Engineers Week. Founded by The National Society of Professional Engineers in 1951 and involving more than 100 society, government, and business sponsors and affiliates, including Boeing, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Council of Engineering Companies, National Engineers Week is celebrated across the country to raise public awareness of the important contributions engineers make to our nation and to inspire more young Americans to become interested in engineering. "Engineers have helped us build boats to cross the seas, railroads to take us west, and the internet to communicate with the world," stated Congressman Lipinski, who holds engineering degrees from Northwestern University and Stanford University. "Today we need the innovative capabilities of engineers to confront the new challenges before us, such as developing American energy independence, finding solutions to confront global climate change, and making our nation more secure." Currently, there are more than 2 million engineers working in the United States, but the nation is lagging far behind many others, especially China and India, in the training of new engineers. The National Academy of Science's report entitled Rising Above the Gathering Storm raised questions about America's future technological competitiveness. This report emphasized the need for the government to take a number of actions, including addressing the looming shortage of engineers. Improving science, technology, engineering, and math education is one needed step and Congressman Lipinski has co-sponsored legislation that will address many of these education gaps. "As an engineer I have a unique perspective on what we should be doing to bolster American competitiveness," said Lipinski. "When I was a kid growing up in Chicago, I was fascinated with figuring out how mechanical devices work. I remember that my high school calculus and physics teachers at St Ignatius – Father Thul and Father Fergus –were the ones who helped mold this childhood fascination into an interest in engineering. Providing this type of inspiration for the next generation of engineers is one of the main purposes of National Engineers Week. We must continue to do all we can to encourage and inspire the boys and girls, men and women, who will be the American innovators of tomorrow, so that America continues as a leader in this increasingly competitive world. And by passing this resolution today, we help contribute some needed inspiration." (February 13, 2008) ###
02.13.2008	Works with Bipartisan Group to Gain Reevaluation of Case Today, Corina Turcinovic was granted a one-year stay of deportation by immigration officials after the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law formally requested that immigration officials further investigate Mrs. Turcinovic's situation. The Subcommittee's action occurred as a preliminary step in their consideration of H.R. 5030, a bill introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) that would allow Corina Turcinovic to remain in the U.S. and apply for permanent legal residency. "I am extremely pleased that we were successful in gaining another full year of legal residency in the U.S. for Corina while her case continues to be considered," said Rep. Lipinski. "Until today, Corina was facing deportation because of mistakes made by the government that prevented her from gaining permanent legal resident status. But now we have the opportunity to right those wrongs and ensure that Corina is not unjustly removed from this country." Mrs. Turcinovic entered the United States legally in 1990 when her then-fiancé, Maro Turcinovic, was paralyzed after being hit by a car in New Jersey. Maro was soon transferred to Chicago for rehabilitation care, and Corina - having been given permission by immigration authorities to stay and care for her injured fiancé - came with him. Over the next 14 years, Corina would spend nearly every hour attending to the health needs of Maro, and in 1996, the couple was married. Maro was going through the process of becoming a naturalized citizen, but mistakes by the government prevented the process from being completed before complications stemming from Maro's injuries claimed his life. Because Maro did not become a citizen prior to his death, Corina could not apply for permanent legal status under the expedited procedures available to spouses and widows of U.S. citizens. To help correct this government mistake, Rep. Lipinski introduced a bill on Corina's behalf, H.R. 5030, on January 16, 2008. Last month, on January 22, last minute efforts of Rep. Lipinski as well as Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Immigration, played a critical role in stopping Corina's deportation as she was being driven to the airport by immigration officials. Republicans Steve King (R-IA, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration) and Lamar Smith (R-TX, Ranking Member of the full Judiciary Committee) also agreed the case deserved a second look, and along with Chairwoman Lofgren, secured today's one-year stay of deportation for Corina. "There is still more work to be done, but we now will have the time to make the case that Corina's situation is unique and was the result of a mistake by the government," said Rep. Lipinski. "I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee to pass H.R. 5030 and ensure that Corina can gain permanent legal resident status." When told of today's decision, Mrs. Turcinovic exclaimed, "I am very relieved and incredibly grateful to Congressman Lipinski for his vision and courage, to my attorney John Colbert for never giving up, and to all the beautiful people who have supported me throughout the ordeal. We all believed in the system and today we are convinced it does work. The U.S. is truly an amazing country." (February 13, 2008) ###
02.13.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the Oak Lawn Fire Department will be awarded $600,000 through the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). This grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation’s first responders and the safety of our communities. The Oak Lawn Fire Department is going to use this $600,000 grant to purchase a new emergency vehicle that will enhance safety in the village. “The first responders of our communities perform a difficult and dangerous job, regularly putting their lives on the line for the safety of others,” said Rep. Lipinski. “I strongly believe it is my responsibility to support the important mission of local first responders by securing necessary federal funds. For this reason I met two weeks ago with the U.S. Fire Administration’s Assistant Administrator Gregory Cade to discuss Oak Lawns’ request. I am very happy that today this request has been filled. This vehicle will allow the first responders of Oak Lawn to further serve the local community, and in doing so, improve the safety and quality of life of local residents.” Since entering Congress in 2005, Congressman Dan Lipinski has brought back over $3.2 million in federal funding for first responders in the Third Congressional District of Illinois. (February 13, 2008) ###
02.08.2008	On Thursday Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped the House of Representatives pass H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act, by a vote of 354-58. The bill, which builds on a law passed last year that made the largest federal investment in college financial aid since the GI Bill of 1944, includes additional steps to make college more affordable and accessible. “As a former college professor, I know how critical a college education is and I understand how expensive it has become, loading down students and their families with large debts coming out of college,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This new legislation builds on last year's historic investments in college affordability by helping hold down rising tuition costs, simplifying the financial aid application process, and reforming unscrupulous student lending practices. I am proud to have played a role in accomplishing this victory for middle class families.” H.R. 4137 is a comprehensive reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, the primary federal law aimed at expanding college access for low- and middle-income students. The legislation seeks to reform and strengthen the nation’s higher education programs to ensure that they operate in the best interests of students and families. Specifically, the legislation expands access to college by improving financial aid programs and removing obstacles that deter qualified students, such as complicated financial aid applications and predatory lending practices. It also sheds sunlight on tuition increases and textbook prices, while holding colleges and universities accountable for their role in keeping higher education affordable. In addition, the bill would give consumers access to quality information about college costs that can be sorted, searched, and compared. “Making college more affordable is essential to building a strong middle class, ensuring America's competitiveness by investing in a new generation of innovators, and creating good paying jobs here at home,” stated Lipinski. “I am proud to be helping make this investment in our children's future and our nation's economy.” (February 8, 2008) ###
02.07.2008	Lipinski Praises Expansion of Bill to Seniors and Disabled Veterans Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) helped pass an economic stimulus package focused on helping middle class Americans in order to provide a needed short term boost to the U.S. economy. The bill will inject $159 billion into the economy with most of that money going to middle class Americans in the form of tax rebates. The House of Representatives originally passed this legislation on January 29th, but the bill passed today extends the tax rebate to include seniors and disabled veterans. "I am proud that Congress and the President were able to quickly come together to pass an economic stimulus package that will benefit middle class Americans," said Rep. Lipinski. "And I am especially pleased that the stimulus package will also ensure that seniors and disabled veterans also receive timely economic assistance. This agreement proves what I have long stated – Congress can achieve the greatest results by putting partisan differences aside and working together." In addition to supporting this short-term economic stimulus package, Rep. Lipinski called on his colleagues in Congress to also take action to strengthen and grow the economy in the medium and long term. In particular, Rep. Lipinski pushed for greater investments in U.S. infrastructure as a way of creating jobs while providing for necessary repairs and construction. Every $1 billion invested in American infrastructure creates and supports 47,500 American jobs. And in January, Rep. Lipinski joined Rep. Don Manzullo (R-IL) in introducing H.R. 5101, legislation that would provide a tax deduction for U.S. manufacturers, ensuring that they are able to stay globally competitive without shipping American jobs overseas. Manufacturing is the largest contributor to the Illinois economy, and according to the Alliance for American Manufacturing, Illinois has lost nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs since 2000. "This tax rebate is a good short term help for middle class Americans, but much more needs to be done," said Lipinski. "We must continue to work on easing the middle class squeeze by protecting and growing good American jobs and improving the affordability of health care, education, and transportation." (February 7, 2008) ###
01.30.2008	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced that the Willow Springs Fire Department will be awarded $48,200 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). This program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. "First responders perform a difficult and dangerous job, regularly putting their lives on the line for the safety of others," said Rep. Lipinski. "I believe it is my responsibility to support the important mission and safety of first responders by securing necessary federal funds. This grant of over forty eight thousand dollars will allow the Willow Springs Fire Department to improve upon their already impressive record of service to the Village of Willow Springs and the surrounding communities, and in doing so, improve the safety and quality of life of the local residents. I am proud to announce this grant and I look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of the Third District's first responders." Since entering Congress in 2005, Congressman Dan Lipinski has brought back over $2.6 million in federal funding for first responders in the Third Congressional District of Illinois. (January 30, 2008) ###
01.29.2008	Calls on Congress to Invest in Infrastructure and Promote Manufacturing Jobs Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in passing a timely economic stimulus package. This bill, H.R. 5140, will inject $145.9 billion into the economy in 2008 with most of that money going to middle class families and individuals in the form of tax rebates. "I believe this economic stimulus package is an excellent first step towards shoring up our economy," said Rep. Lipinski. "This bipartisan package will be a much-needed shot in the arm for our economy and provide tax relief to middle class families who are struggling under the burden of crippling mortgages, rising unemployment, soaring health care and education costs, high local taxes, and record high energy prices." In response to recent economic indicators showing an increasingly shaky economy, Congress and the Administration worked to quickly come to an agreement on a short term economic boost. This spirit of bipartisanship quickly yielded the bill the House passed today and which now must be considered by the Senate. "This agreement shows the American people what happens when government functions in the spirit of cooperation," said. Rep. Lipinski. "The Democratic leadership in Congress worked with the Republican Administration to find common ground, resulting in a stimulus package that is targeted to middle class families. As I have noted throughout my time in Congress, working across party lines often results in achievements far greater than those possible through partisan politics-as-usual. This shows that when we work together, the American people get results." In addition to supporting today's short-term economic stimulus package, Rep. Lipinski called on his colleagues in Congress to also take action to strengthen and grow the economy in the medium and long term. In particular, Rep. Lipinski pushed for greater investments in U.S. infrastructure as a way of creating jobs while providing for necessary repairs and construction. Every $1 billion invested in American infrastructure creates and supports 47,500 American jobs. And last week, Rep. Lipinski joined Rep. Don Manzullo (R-IL) in introducing H.R. 5101, legislation that would provide a tax deduction for U.S. manufacturers, ensuring that they are able to stay globally competitive without shipping American jobs overseas. Manufacturing is the largest contributor to the Illinois economy, and according to the Alliance for American Manufacturing, Illinois has lost nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs since 2000. "I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this stimulus package while also pushing for greater investments in infrastructure and manufacturing," said Rep. Lipinski. "Working together will give American middle class families the best shot of weathering this current economic storm." (January 29, 2008) ###
01.28.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) recently received an appreciation award from American Legion Post No. 231 in Chicago's McKinley Park Neighborhood. "I am honored and humbled to receive this award. These men and women here bravely served our country in the military; it is my privilege to see that I do my job to repay them for their admirable service," said Lipinski. As a Member of Congress, Lipinski helped pass the Veterans Benefits Improvements Act which would provide specially adapted housing assistance to soldiers transitioning to veteran status and creating a scholarship program for veterans seeking careers assisting in the rehabilitation of blind veterans He helped pass the Early Access to Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits Act, which extends vocational rehab benefits to soldiers who are hospitalized or who are receiving outpatient services with a permanent disability as a result of injury in the line of duty. Also, Lipinski helped pass the SBA Veterans' Program Act, which will expand entrepreneurial resources for our nation's veterans. In Congress' most recent appropriations bill, Congressman Dan Lipinski secured $487,000 for Catholic Charities for a proposed St. Leo's Residence to provide all aspects of rehabilitation to homeless veterans with the goal of them self sufficient. (Pictured above in the photo are Alderman Jim Balcer (11th Ward), Fourth District Senior Vice Commander Charlie Flood, Fourth District Commander Jim Maziena, Cook County Commander Bernie Stegmueller, Congressman Dan Lipinski, Assistant Sergeant at Arms Ronald Boehm, and Commander Sunny Coronado.) (January 28, 2008) ###
01.24.2008	Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined Congressman Don Manzullo (R-IL) in introducing legislation to stimulate the economy by accelerating an existing tax incentive to help manufacturers create and keep jobs in America. The American Jobs Creation and Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 (HR 5101) would speed up a domestic manufacturing tax deduction to give large and small manufacturers a larger tax break on the goods they produce in the United States. The tax deduction currently provides a 6 percent tax rate reduction for manufacturers on the goods and services they produce in the United States. The tax rate reduction is scheduled to increase to 9 percent by 2010, but the bill that Lipinski and Manzullo introduced today would accelerate the phase-in to 9 percent retroactively to Jan. 1, 2008. "With middle class families having been squeezed for years and the current downturn promising more hardships, our economy is in desperate need of a shot in the arm that will help America's middle class," said Rep. Lipinski. "This bill does just that by making it easier for U.S. manufacturers to employ American workers. Manufacturing jobs are essential for strengthening and expanding the American middle-class. In the Chicago region - and especially in the Third District - where manufacturing has traditionally played an important role in the local economy, this bill will have a real positive impact on many working families." "This legislation gives our manufacturers an extra 3 percent cut in their tax rate immediately that they can use to expand and create jobs in America. It also provides a greater incentive for our manufacturers to keep jobs in the United States because they would pay a 9 percent tax penalty on any work they send offshore," Rep. Manzullo said. "This legislation would provide a tremendous stimulus to our economy while helping our manufacturers create good-paying jobs and keep them at home in America. It should be included in any economic stimulus bill Congress considers in the next few weeks." The domestic manufacturing tax deduction was authored by Rep. Manzullo and others in 2004 during debate over how to replace the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI) program that provided tax incentives to U.S. exporters. The World Trade Organization had ruled FSC/ETI an illegal subsidy and forced Congress to eliminate it. During debate over how to replace FSC/ETI, Congress agreed to spread the deduction to both small and large manufacturers and limit the eligibility to domestic production to encourage manufacturers to keep jobs in the U.S. According to the Internal Revenue Service, 402,710 small manufacturers that paid taxes at the individual rate (S-Corporations, LLCs, partnerships and sole proprietorships) in 2006 and 41,668 larger manufacturers that paid corporate income taxes in 2005 (2006 corporate figures not yet available) benefited from the manufacturing tax deduction. (January 24, 2008) ###
01.24.2008	Calls for Greater Investments in Infrastructure and Manufacturing Today, congressional leaders and the Bush Administration announced that an agreement has been reached on an economic stimulus package that will provide at least $300 in tax rebates to American middle class families. In response, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) released the following statement: ~~~~~ "America is great not because of our natural wonders or monuments, America is great because of the middle class families who are the backbone of our nation. It is the great American middle class that has built our country, and it is the middle class that needs help now at this critical time." "While the details of the stimulus package announced today are still tentative, I believe the basic plan is an excellent first step towards shoring up our economy. This package will be a much-needed shot in the arm for our economy and provide tax relief to the many middle class families who are struggling under the burden of crippling mortgages, rising unemployment, soaring health care and education costs, high local taxes, and record high energy prices." "And just as importantly, this agreement shows the American people what happens when government functions in the spirit of cooperation and compromise. The Democratic leadership in Congress worked with the Republican Administration to find common ground, resulting in a stimulus package that is targeted to middle class families. As I have noted throughout my time in Congress, working across party lines often results in achievements far greater than those possible through partisan politics-as-usual. For far too long, partisanship and needless bickering has stood in the way of real progress for America. The American people deserve better, and this shows that when we work together, the American people get results." "However, while this stimulus package will provide our economy a needed short-term boost, we must also act now to strengthen our economy in the medium and long-term. That is why I firmly believe that Congress must also work to pass an infrastructure investment package. Every $1 billion invested in our infrastructure creates and supports 47,500 good-paying American jobs. And as witnessed by the poor state of repair that many of our bridges, highways, and railways are currently in, infrastructure investment is sorely needed now. Just as the great public works projects of the 1930s created jobs and left a lasting legacy of dams, bridges, and roads still in use today, now is the time to reinvest in American workers and U.S. infrastructure to provide for the economic needs of today and tomorrow." "Also this week, I joined with my Republican colleague from Illinois, Rep. Don Manzullo, in introducing HR 5101, a bill that would increase the tax incentive for American manufacturers who create jobs in the United States. Manufacturing jobs are essential for strengthening and expanding the American middle class. In the Chicago region - and especially in the Third District - where manufacturing has traditionally played an important role in the local economy, this bill will have a real positive impact on many working families. This proposal will expand and create jobs while ensuring that our manufacturers can afford to keep those jobs in America." "I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for quick action on this stimulus package, while also pushing for greater investments in infrastructure and manufacturing. Working together across party lines will give American middle class families the best shot of weathering this current economic storm." (January 24, 2008) ###
01.23.2008	Legislation Recognizes the Contributions of Catholic Schools Prior to Catholic Schools Week Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved H.Res. 916, a resolution introduced by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) to honor Catholic Schools. Rep. Lipinski introduced this resolution to celebrate Catholic Schools Week - Jan. 27 through Feb. 2 - which celebrates Catholic schools and their contributions to their communities and the nation. "Catholic schools continue to play an essential role in educating America's young people," said Lipinski. "I am the product of a Catholic education in the Chicago Archdiocese and my wife received a Catholic education in the Altoona-Johnstown Diocese, so I understand how important Catholic schools are in providing a spiritual, moral, and intellectual foundation for students all across the country." Started in 1974, Catholic Schools Week has celebrated the important role Catholic schools play in American education and their continued reputation for excellence in providing today's young people with a strong academic and moral education, as well as teaching community responsibility and outreach. During this week, dioceses and schools work to build community awareness and encourage parents to take full advantage of the benefits of Catholic education. "As we recognize Catholic Schools Week this year, we must pay special tribute to the thousands of dedicated teachers, parents, students, and countless others that continue to support and promote strong Catholic values and educational excellence," said Lipinski. More than 106,000 young people in the Chicago area attend 276 Catholic elementary and high schools. The 3rd District of Illinois is a significant contributor, preparing students for the future at 34 grammar schools and 5 high schools. In addition, the nationwide Catholic high school graduation rate stands at 99%, with 97% of graduates going on to college or technical schools in order to further their education. "Catholic schools have made a big difference in my life and in the lives of countless others," stated Lipinski. "As an important complement to public schools and other private institutions, Catholic schools contribute a great deal to America. And let us not forget, that every student who is taught in a Catholic school saves taxpayers money because they are not a part of the local public school system. America's Catholic schools deserve our praise and our support." (January 23, 2008) ###
01.22.2008	Works with Bipartisan Group to Gain Release Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) successfully secured a stay of deportation and a release from jail for Corina Turcinovic. Mrs. Turcinovic, a French national, was on her way to the airport when ICE responded to the congressional request from the House Immigration Subcommittee. "Today, injustice was narrowly averted when the car carrying Corina Turcinovic to the airport was turned around," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am greatly relieved that I was able to get Democrats and Republicans on the House Immigration Subcommittee to join me in working to delay the deportation and allow Corina to return home while her case is considered." Mrs. Turcinovic was arrested at her home on December 28 and her lawyer was told she would be deported on January 30th. However, early this morning it became evident that immigration authorities planned to deport Corina this afternoon. In response, Congressman Lipinski quickly enlisted bipartisan leaders on the House Judiciary Committee to help secure Corina's release. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Immigration, played an active role in preventing Corina's deportation, while Republicans Steve King (R-IA, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration) and Lamar Smith (R-TX, Ranking Member of the full Judiciary Committee) agreed the case deserved a second look. Immigration officials agreed to delay deportation while Corina was on her way to the airport. "This is a very unique case resulting from a bureaucratic mistake, it is not connected to the issue of comprehensive immigration reform," stated Lipinski, "That is why I was able to get bipartisan cooperation to halt the deportation." Mrs. Turcinovic entered the United States legally in 1990 when her then-fiancé, Maro Turcinovic, was paralyzed after being hit by a car in New Jersey. Maro was soon transferred to Chicago for rehabilitation care, and Corina - having been given permission by immigration authorities to stay and care for her injured fiancé - came with him. Over the next 14 years, Corina would spend nearly every hour attending to the health needs of Maro, and in 1996, the couple was married. Maro was pursuing his American citizenship, but due to his paralysis he was unable to visit a U.S. immigration office to have his fingerprints taken. Unfortunately, the bureaucratic red-tape remained unresolved when complications stemming from Maro's injuries claimed his life. Because Maro did not become a citizen prior to his death, Corina could not apply for permanent legal status under the expedited procedures available to spouses and widows of U.S. citizens. To help correct this government mistake, Rep. Lipinski introduced a bill, H.R. 5030, on Corina's behalf on January 16, 2008. If signed into law, this legislation would grant Mrs. Turcinovic permanent legal resident status in the United States. The House Subcommittee on Immigration is expected to consider this legislation in mid-February. "This is just the first step in fighting to correct the bureaucratic snafu that prevented Corina's husband, Maro, from obtaining his citizenship before he died," said Rep. Lipinski. "There is still more work to be done, but we now will have the time to make the case that Corina's situation is unique and was the result of a mistake by the government." (January 22, 2008) ###
01.16.2008	Legislation Would Correct Problem Caused by Bureaucratic Red Tape Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) introduced a Private Immigration Bill on behalf of Corina Turcinovic who was denied permanent legal status in the United States after bureaucratic red tape prevented her now-deceased husband from gaining American citizenship which he was seeking when he died. If signed into law, Rep. Lipinski's legislation would grant Mrs. Turcinovic permanent legal resident status in the United States. Rep. Lipinski is also working with the Office of Detention and Removal Operations (DRO) in order to prevent the deportation of Corina as she awaits congressional action. "I do not condone the breaking of U.S. immigration law, but I believe that Mrs. Turcinovic's special situation merits reconsideration," said Rep. Lipinski. "We should not let a bureaucratic mistake get in the way of doing what is right." Mrs. Turcinovic entered the United States legally in 1990 when her then-fiancé, Maro Turcinovic, was paralyzed after being hit by a car in New Jersey. Maro was soon transferred to Chicago for rehabilitation care, and Corina - having been given permission by immigration authorities to stay and care for her injured fiancé - came with him. Over the next 14 years, Corina would spend nearly every hour attending to the health needs of Maro, and in 1996, the couple was married. Maro was pursuing his American citizenship, but due to his paralysis he was unable to visit a U.S. immigration office to have his fingerprints taken. Unfortunately, the bureaucratic red-tape remained unresolved when complications stemming from Maro's injuries claimed his life. Because Maro did not become a citizen prior to his death, Corina could not apply for permanent legal status under the expedited procedures available to spouses and widows of U.S. citizens. As a result, Corina is currently being held in McHenry County Jail awaiting deportation on January 30. "My office is currently helping hundreds of constituents with immigration issues, and Corina Turcinovic's situation is extremely unique," said Rep. Lipinski. "Corina is facing deportation today simply because a bureaucratic roadblock prevented her husband from becoming a naturalized citizen prior to his death. I will continue to push my legislation as well as work with my colleagues in Congress and immigration officials to reach a just resolution to this situation." (January 16, 2008) ###
12.20.2007	Earlier this week, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted to pass a bill that will protect more than 82,000 middle-class families in the Third District - and 23 million nationwide - from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) this year. "Middle class families are increasingly being squeezed because the costs of health care, transportation, education, and other essentials are going up faster than wages," said Lipinski. "By passing this legislation we are protecting 82,000 families in the district from taking another hit, this time from a tax that was instituted to only impact wealthy individuals." The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was originally created by Congress in 1969 to prevent very wealthy individuals from using loopholes to avoid owing income taxes. Because the tax was not indexed for inflation, it has steadily extended its reach to millions of Americans. If no action has been taken to fix the AMT by the end of the year, over 82,000 families in the Third District of Illinois would have faced an average tax increase of $6,800 on their 2007 taxes. "By enacting this fix we are putting money back in the pockets of working families as they face increasing stress over growing economic insecurity." said Lipinski. "This is a central issue of fairness; I will continue to fight for middle-class families who, far too often, are overlooked by the government." Lipinski Helps Provide Tax Relief for Middle-Class Families Legislation Protects Over 82,000 Third District Taxpayers from Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) [Washington D.C.] - Earlier this week, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted to pass a bill that will protect more than 82,000 middle-class families in the Third District - and 23 million nationwide - from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) this year. "Middle class families are increasingly being squeezed because the costs of health care, transportation, education, and other essentials are going up faster than wages," said Lipinski. "By passing this legislation we are protecting 82,000 families in the district from taking another hit, this time from a tax that was instituted to only impact wealthy individuals." The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was originally created by Congress in 1969 to prevent very wealthy individuals from using loopholes to avoid owing income taxes. Because the tax was not indexed for inflation, it has steadily extended its reach to millions of Americans. If no action has been taken to fix the AMT by the end of the year, over 82,000 families in the Third District of Illinois would have faced an average tax increase of $6,800 on their 2007 taxes. "By enacting this fix we are putting money back in the pockets of working families as they face increasing stress over growing economic insecurity." said Lipinski. "This is a central issue of fairness; I will continue to fight for middle-class families who, far too often, are overlooked by the government." (December 20, 2007) ###
12.19.2007	Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) joined a majority of House Democrats in voting against an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill that would provide $70 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan without restrictions. This funding, which was approved with overwhelming Republican support, is expected to fund the war in Iraq until the summer of 2008. "All year, I have fought to change the President's policy on Iraq and begin bringing the troops home," stated Rep. Lipinski. "Unfortunately, today's bill takes a step backward from that fight by giving the President a blank check with absolutely no conditions on the funding. For this reason, I voted against this bill." The Administration had pressured legislators to quickly approve additional war funds by claiming that the military will soon run out of money. However, the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) determined in a recent report that the military could continue to fully operate until at least April without additional funds. "I do not believe that the way to change direction in Iraq is to cut off funding for our troops, but as noted by CRS, we are not at that point," said Rep. Lipinski. "Earlier this year I said that unless we work to find a bipartisan solution on Iraq, we will not have the numbers in Congress necessary to force a change in the President's policy. We are at this point today of approving a blank check funding bill not only because of the intransigence of the President, but also because of a failure on both sides to rise above politics and partisanship to work together for a new direction in Iraq." Congressman Lipinski has introduced two pieces of legislation seeking bipartisan solutions for Iraq. The first, introduced in February 2007, calls for a diplomatic offensive on Iraq, a peace conference for Iraq's ethnic and religious leaders, and greater Congressional oversight over the President's war policies. In June, Congressman Lipinski joined with Democrat Mark Udall as well as Republicans Frank Wolf and Mike McCaul to draft and introduce legislation that would implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group (Baker-Hamilton Commission). Among other things, H.R. 2574 shifts the mission of American forces from combat to training and counterterrorism, makes American economic, political, and military support conditional on the Iraqi government meeting benchmarks, and sets a goal of 2008 for a redeployment of troops from Iraq. "The Iraq Study Group bill has attracted over 65 cosponsors, including 35 Republicans, more than any other legislation setting a new direction in Iraq," said Rep. Lipinski. "Rising above politics and working together is the only way to responsibly redeploy our troops from Iraq while providing the best chance for stability. In the meantime, my thoughts and prayers are with our troops and their families, especially in this holiday season." (December 19, 2007) ###
12.19.2007	Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced that with the passage of the FY 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill today, he has secured millions of dollars that will aid Third District residents. "These federal funds will help our communities by easing traffic congestion, expanding mass transit, cleaning up the local environment, increasing care for abused children, housing homeless veterans, providing communications equipment for area first responders, protecting food safety, helping local communities improve water infrastructure, and developing environmentally friendly transportation," said Congressman Lipinski. "These are the issues that affect people every day, and I am proud to be bringing back the funding that will improve the daily lives of Third District residents." In addition, thanks to Congressman Lipinski's efforts, the legislation also includes more than $20 million for the Capital Grants Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Program, a federal grants program that could help create quiet zones, build underpasses, improve safety, and aid economic development in local communities with rail lines. The FY2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following projects requested by Rep. Lipinski: $400,000 for a parking garage in Berwyn that would serve area communities as well as provide economic development and traffic mitigation in the area. $500,000 for extension of the Chicago Transit Authority's Orange Line from its current terminus at Midway Airport to Ford City Mall. The extension would feature a new station with intermodal connections to nearby neighborhoods and southwest suburban communities. $250,000 for the construction of a community center at Saint Richard Parish serving the Archer Heights Community. This center will be used by the parish, the local community, and organizations such as the Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts. $238,000 for the Cook County Environmental Infrastructure Fund, to aid in improving local water and sewer systems and community environmental infrastructure needs. $500,000 for a feasibility study of the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River, also known as Bubbly Creek, to address problems of odor and water quality issues. $100,000 for a study to determine alternatives to using the Lucas-Berg Confined Dredged Facility as a disposal site for dredged material from the Calumet-Sag Channel Modification and Illinois Waterway. $1,000,000 for fuel research and development at Northern Illinois University. Working in partnership with Argonne National Laboratory, Northern Illinois University will continue a joint research program to develop a viable fuel cell vehicle that will provide environmentally-friendly transportation. $2,228,000 for the National Center for Food Safety & Technology, run by the Illinois Institute of Technology, to continue conducting food safety, security and prevention technology research. With recent events having raised awareness of the importance of food safety, this funding will facilitate research that will help ensure that Americans have a safe food supply. $316,000 for Advocate Health Care's Childhood Trauma Treatment Program for specialized and comprehensive psychotherapy and support for abused and neglected children and their families. $243,000 for Northern Illinois University's College of Engineering and Engineering Technology for a center developing new technologies and working on interdisciplinary projects ranging from homeland security to noise cancellation. $487,000 for Catholic Charities for a proposed St. Leo's Residence to provide all aspects of rehabilitation to homeless veterans with the goal of them self sufficient. $2,256,000 for Cook County to spend on Interoperable Safety and Emergency Communications Radios to allow local villages and municipalities to communicate in the event of a biological, chemical or terrorist attack and would assist thousands of first responders in the Cook County region. The funding bill has been approved by both the House of Representatives and the Senate and is expected to be signed into law this week. (December 19, 2007) ###
12.18.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Representative Dan Lipinski helped pass the Energy Independence and Security Act, a sweeping energy plan that will revolutionize our nations' energy economy, help free us from our dependence on foreign oil, create millions of new jobs, and reduce the threat of climate change. "Today is the best day for the environment and American energy independence in a generation, as America takes a big step forward in combating global climate change and breaking the grip that ‘Big Oil' companies and OPEC have on our nation," said Lipinski. "I am pleased to have played a key role in getting this historic bill passed and in authoring important provisions of the legislation." "Our work today is a victory for the pocketbooks of middle-class Americans, the security of our country, and the health of the environment," stated Lipinski. "But this bill is not perfect. I am disappointed that the other body was unable to retain the language I fought for to make oil and gas companies pay their fair share. I will continue the fight against ‘Big Oil' and work to break the death grip that it has on American consumers." Rep. Lipinski, Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology, authored two key provisions included in the legislation: the H-Prize Act and the BRIGHT Energy Savings Act. These provisions will help advance the goals of cutting America's foreign oil dependence and reducing global warming through the development of new clean energy sources and a reduction in energy consumption; in addition, tens of millions of taxpayer dollars will be saved by reducing the energy consumption of the federal government. BRIGHT Energy Savings Act: Requires the federal government - the nation's largest energy consumer - to use high efficiency light bulbs in 1,800 civilian office buildings; this change will significantly reduce energy consumption - about 75% savings for each of more than 3 million bulbs - saving tens of millions of taxpayer dollars; and H-Prize Act: Establish over $50 million in cash prizes for the "H-Prize" program to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a pollution-free transportation fuel that will replace gasoline. The comprehensive legislation will increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards to 35 mpg for cars and trucks by 2020, up from the current level of 27.5 mpg for cars and 22.2 mpg for light trucks. These provisions will save American families an estimated $700 to $1000 per year at the pump, while significantly reducing oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The bill also includes a robust increase in the production of renewable motor fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel, and mandates the production of more energy-efficient home appliances such as washing machines, dishwashers, and refrigerators. Tomorrow, the President is expected to sign the groundbreaking legislation into law. Also today, Rep. Lipinski praised the selection of Mattoon, Illinois, as the site for the $1.5 billion coal-fueled FutureGen power plant. This ground-breaking facility will generate electricity using cutting-edge technologies, placing the United States at the forefront of new energy development with near-zero emissions. Further, the plant will utilize new methods of capturing and permanently storing carbon dioxide underground, reducing the release of dangerous climate changing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. "I am thrilled by the selection of Illinois as the host site for FutureGen," stated Lipinski. "The establishment of this revolutionary facility is an important and necessary step for our country in developing new, emissions-free energy resources for our future. Illinois will greatly benefit from this facility through the creation of nearly 1,500 jobs and the use of one million tons of Illinois coal, and I am proud to have worked hard to bring this project to the state." Illinois' selection represents the culmination of efforts by the FutureGen for Illinois Task Force, of which Rep. Lipinski is a member, to attract the facility to the state. FutureGen will serve as both an effective source of power as well as an innovative research laboratory for the development of emissions-reducing technologies. As a power source, FutureGen will employ coal gasification technology to supply 150,000 homes with electricity, while also producing significant amounts of clean hydrogen for use in fuel cell technology. As a research facility, FutureGen will work to develop and refine clean coal technology, hydrogen production, and carbon sequestration. The application of these advanced technologies will advance the development of new energy resources, while bringing the best scientists and engineers to the state of Illinois. Click here for Congressman Lipinski's floor statement on passage of H.R. 6. (December 18, 2007) ###
12.13.2007	[Washington, D.C.] Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) sent a letter to President Bush requesting his public condemnation of Japan for disregarding an international ban and allowing the killing of over 1,000 whales, many of them endangered. The letter, signed by 76 Members of the House of Representatives, also calls for an end to all future hunts and expresses support for trade restrictions on Japan that would help conserve whales. "I am deeply troubled by Japan's complete disregard of an international ban on whale hunts that has protected whales since the 1940's," stated Lipinski. "The Bush Administration should take a firm stance against Japan's actions by pursuing appropriate diplomatic, economic, and trade measures to ensure that international protections for whales are not undermined, but strengthened. We must continue to protect these fragile creatures that are being threatened by human activity." On November 19, a fleet of Japanese whalers set sail from the port of Shimonoseki with plans to kill over 1,000 whales, including the Minke Whale and the endangered Humpback and Fin Whales. Although an international moratorium against commercial whaling has been in effect since 1986, Japan has circumvented this international treaty, killing nearly 11,000 whales for commercial purposes under the guise of "scientific research." "My very first venture into political activism occurred when I was 9 years old and I collected signatures on a petition to the Japanese government protesting the killing of dolphins by tuna fishers," stated Lipinski. "Now, over 30 years later, I continue to work to protect our environment and its inhabitants because it is critically important that we conserve the planet for future generations." In addition to this effort, Rep. Lipinski has been committed to animal welfare issues in the 110th Congress, including efforts to strengthen prohibitions against animal fighting and the use of dog and cat fur products. As a member of the Congressional Wildlife Refuge Caucus, he is a cosponsor of legislation to protect rare cats and dogs, to prohibit aerial hunting of wildlife, to restore healthy populations of salmon and steelhead in the Pacific Northwest, and to permanently protect the Arctic coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, while also supporting efforts to prevent the importation of polar bear trophies. (December 13, 2007) ###
12.12.2007	[Washington, D.C.] Today, Representative Dan Lipinski helped pass the Conference Report on H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. The bill, which sets the spendinglevels for next year's Defense budget, includes a Lipinski provision requiring the Department of Defense(DOD) to install high efficiency light bulbs throughout its facilities during the normal course ofmaintenance, or whenever a building is significantly altered or constructed. "I am pleased that with passage of this bill, the House of Representatives continues its commitment tosecuring America's energy independence," stated Lipinski. "As the largest energy consumer in the UnitedStates, the federal government must take advantage of all available tools to reduce its energy consumption,and my provision will certainly help to achieve this goal. "High efficiency light bulbs, such as compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs), use approximately 75 percentless energy than standard incandescent bulbs and last approximately 8 to 10 times longer. Replacing anordinary bulb with a CFL could save up to $74 in energy costs over the bulb's lifetime. Even higherefficiency light bulbs are close to commercial application including a new generation of halogen bulbsand new light-emitting diodes (LED). "When you consider that the DOD has over 240,000 buildings in the U.S. alone, it is clear that my provision is a practical way to make significant progress in lowering energy consumption, reducinggreenhouse gas emissions, and promoting energy independence, while at the same time saving millions ofAmerican taxpayer dollars," said Lipinski. "It's a win for the environment, a win for national security,and a win for American taxpayers. "This effort builds on Rep. Lipinski's success last week in adding his BRIGHT Energy Savings Act toH.R. 6, the Energy Independence and Security Act which passed the House of Representatives. Thisprovision directs the General Services Administration (GSA) to install high efficiency bulbs in all GSAfederal buildings, which includes approximately 1,800 facilities with at least 3 million lights that could beupgraded to high efficiency bulbs under the amendment. (December 12, 2007) ###
12.06.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Representative Dan Lipinski helped pass the Energy Independence and Security Act, a sweeping energy plan that will revolutionize our nations’ energy economy, help free us from our dependence on foreign oil, create millions of new jobs, reduce the threat of climate change, and roll back tax breaks for Big Oil corporations in order to invest in clean, alternative energies. “This is a landmark bill, making the most sweeping changes to our policy on energy and the environment in at least a generation,” said Lipinski. “I am pleased to have played a key role in authoring important provisions of this bill, and to have worked with my colleagues to achieve this victory for the pocketbooks of middle-class Americans, the security of our country, and the health of the environment.” Rep. Lipinski, Vice Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee and a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, authored two key provisions included in the legislation: the H-Prize Act and the BRIGHT Energy Savings Act. These provisions will help advance the goals of cutting America’s foreign oil dependence and reducing global warming through the development of new clean energy sources and a reduction in energy consumption; in addition, tens of millions of taxpayer dollars will be saved by reducing the energy consumption of the federal government. · BRIGHT Energy Savings Act: Requires the federal government – the nation’s largest energy consumer – to use high efficiency light bulbs in 1,800 civilian office buildings; this change will significantly reduce energy consumption – about 75% savings for each of more than 3 million bulbs – saving tens of millions of taxpayer dollars; and · H-Prize Act: Establish over $50 million in cash prizes for the “H-Prize” program to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a pollution-free transportation fuel that will replace gasoline. “We must use American ingenuity to innovate and develop clean alternative energy to free us from the grip of foreign oil that threatens our planet,” explained Lipinski. “Hydrogen-powered vehicles are no longer the stuff of the future for the Jetson family; with investment and hard work, we can bring this and other technologies to the marketplace in the near future. That’s why I believe the $50 million H-Prize, a unique incentive to encourage innovation, can be critical to our future.” “With all the talk of developing a greener America, the federal government should be leading by example but instead lags behind,” stated Lipinski. “The government does not even use energy efficient light bulbs, such as CFLs, on a wide-scale basis. My provision requiring the federal government to use energy efficient light bulbs is a simple and common-sense way to significantly reduce energy consumption. It’s a win for the environment, a win for national security, and a win for American taxpayers.” In addition to Lipinski’s initiatives, the comprehensive legislation will increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards to 35 mpg for cars and trucks by 2020, up from the current level of 27.5 mpg for cars and 22.2 mpg for light trucks. These provisions will save American families an estimated $700 to $1000 per year at the pump, while significantly reducing oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Other major provisions include a robust increase in the production of renewable motor fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel, and a Renewable Electricity Standard requiring utilities to generate 15 percent of electricity from renewable sources such as wind, biomass, solar, geothermal, and ocean tides by 2020. The legislation also strengthens and extends existing renewable energy tax credits, creates incentives for plug-in hybrid/electric vehicles, and mandates the production of more energy-efficient home appliances such as washing machines, dishwashers, and refrigerators. The bill repeals $21 billion in tax subsidies for oil companies in order to pay for these investments. “America needs innovative solutions to tackle the environmental and economic challenges we face today,” said Howard A. Learner, Executive Director of the Environmental Law & Policy Center. “The comprehensive energy package passed today is a great start with programs that just make sense—they are good for our energy security, good for economic development, good for the environment and save consumers money.” “The Energy Independence and Security Act is a victory for all Americans,” said Lipinski. “With record-high gas prices this year in the Chicago region and elsewhere in this country along with America’s dependence on foreign oil from the Middle East and elsewhere, I strongly believe that this legislation is simply the right thing to do for American working families. And it will make a difference. By repealing unfair tax breaks for Big Oil corporations, by investing in clean, renewable energies, by boosting car and truck fuel efficiency standards to 35 mpg, by requiring utilities to generate 15 percent of electricity from renewable energy, we can reduce our dependence on foreign oil and put America on a path toward energy independence.” “The energy bill before Congress is profoundly important,” said Rebecca Stanfield, State Director of Environment Illinois. “It will help us fight global warming, while saving consumers money on their energy bills, creating jobs, and reducing our dependence on oil imports. It’s long past time to put these measures on the President’s desk. Environment Illinois applauds Congressman Lipinski and all of the Illinois legislators who were persistent and dedicated advocates for these clean energy solutions.” The Senate is expected to begin consideration of the bill soon. · (December 6, 2007) ###
11.20.2007	CHICAGO, IL - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski (D-IL) called on Congress to pass tough legislation and force the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to keep children safe from dangerous toys. Congressman Lipinski issued the plea as he joined Illinois Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) and others at Children's Memorial Hospital to announce the release of Illinois PIRG's 2007 toy safety survey entitled Trouble in Toyland. "This isn't just about defective toys, it's about a defective system that allows dangerous products to be placed on store shelves," said Lipinski. "Already, millions upon millions of toys have been recalled or cited with safety warnings, from Barbie dolls to model rockets to toy ovens to infant play yards, the dangers have proven to be too real. As we enter the holiday season children are excited about receiving new toys, but parents and grandparents are scared about the potential dangers. The government must step up and provide the protection Americans deserve." Trouble in Toyland is the 22nd annual report on toy safety published by Illinois PIRG. According to Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) data from 2005, almost 73,000 children under the age of 5 were sent to the emergency room with toy-related injuries. That same year, 20 children died from toy-related injuries. Congressman Lipinski is an original cosponsor of H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act, which will strengthen and modernize the CPSC, so the federal agency can have more resources to protect consumers. "Parents should not have to worry or wonder whether a crib or toy they bought for their child is safe," explained Lipinski. "Toy manufacturers have an ethical responsibility to ensure that the products they make are safe for children, but Congress should pass legislation to hold foreign manufacturers and foreign countries accountable for producing and selling dangerous products. The consumer safety system in the U.S. needs to be strengthened. It should not be ‘Buyer Beware,' but "Bad Companies Beware." Click here to learn more about what Congressman Lipinski is doing to ensure product safety. Click here for ABC Channel 7 News Coverage on the Product Safety Press Event held today at Children's Hospital in Chicago. (November 20, 2007) ###
11.15.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined a majority in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3773, the RESTORE Act. This bill will ensure that the United States is able to effectively monitor the communications and activities of foreign terrorists while protecting the rights and privacy of Americans. "It is absolutely essential that our intelligence agencies have the legal framework they need to prevent future terrorist attacks," said Rep. Lipinski. "However, in monitoring terrorists, it is important that we ensure that the rights of Americans are protected. I believe this bill strikes the correct balance between security needs and the Constitutional rights of all Americans, and I am pleased that House Democrats were able to craft and pass this bill." H.R. 3773 authorizes warrantless surveillance for cases involving communications taking place outside the United States between foreigners. For all other surveillance scenarios a warrant is needed. To avoid unnecessarily impeding intelligence efforts, this bill does authorize blanket warrants for entire terrorist organizations rather than requiring separate warrants for each individual member of a group such as al Qaeda. And to further ensure that the rights of Americans are being protected, this bill requires new oversight of surveillance operations by the secret court established in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978. The RESTORE Act replaces a law that was passed in August as a necessary, short-term fix in response to reports that the U.S. intelligence community had insufficient authority to effectively monitor terrorist communications. "Living in a dangerous world we must provide our intelligence agencies with the tools they need to fight terrorism, but we must not destroy our civil liberties," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am hopeful that the Senate will soon pass H.R. 3773 so that we can improve upon the law that was passed in August and protect the security and rights of all Americans." Of note, this bill does not provide retroactive immunity to telecom companies that shared information with the administration under the President's warrantless surveillance program. That program was ruled unconstitutional by a U.S. District Judge in August of 2006, although that ruling was later overturned. (November 15, 2007) ###
11.14.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted for and helped pass a war supplemental funding bill that, if signed into law, would require U.S. troops to begin redeploying from Iraq within 30 days. The bill also places several other significant conditions on the funding, including key provisions from Rep. Lipinski's Iraq Study Group legislation, aimed at meeting the needs of U.S. troops in the field while drawing down U.S. involvement in Iraq. "Over 3,800 of our brave soldiers have been killed in Iraq while 28,000 more have been injured, and just this summer I attended the wakes of three brave young soldiers from Illinois who were killed," stated Lipinski. "Clearly, it is past time to change our mission in Iraq and start bringing our troops home. This bill correctly funds the needs of our troops, begins redeployment, and gives Iraq a great chance for stability. I am hopeful that the President will sign this sensible legislation." Besides requiring U.S. troops to begin redeploying from Iraq within 30 days of enactment, this bill would also: Prohibit deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and fully equipped; Ensure that all U.S. government agencies and personnel comply with the current prohibitions against torture in the Army Field Manual; Require a transition in the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq from primarily combat to force protection and diplomatic protection, limited support to Iraqi security forces, and targeted counterterrorism operations. "In June, I helped introduce legislation to implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group," said Rep. Lipinski. "That bill, among other things, requires U.S. troops to shift to counterinsurgency operations and force protection while setting a 2008 goal for withdrawal of all U.S. troops. I am pleased to see the House finally working to implement these provisions and begin bringing our troops home." Although President Bush had requested that Congress pass a $200 billion supplemental funding bill to cover the war costs for all of 2008, the House of Representatives instead passed a $50 billion funding bill. This bill will meet the needs of U.S. troops in the field while ensuring that the President will have to return to Congress within four months to justify further war funding. "The Democratic controlled Congress is providing the oversight over the war in Iraq that so was lacking under Republican control," said Rep. Lipinski. "The Administration and the Iraqi government must be pressured to change their policies if there are going to be results in Iraq. The conditions attached to this funding bill represent an important step towards bringing stability to Iraq and bringing our troops home." (November 14, 2007) ###
11.12.2007	Congressman Lipinski speaking to members of the William McKinley VFW Post 231's dedication of the All Wars Memorial ~ located at Archer & Damen Aves. in Chicago. [Washington D.C.] - As Americans pause this Veterans Day to honor those who have served in our nation's armed forces, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced that he is working to establish a national memorial in Washington DC to honor America's brave men and women who have given their lives for our nation in Iraq and Afghanistan. "It is essential that we honor the memory of those who sacrificed their lives in Afghanistan and Iraq," said Lipinski. "A memorial would serve as a tangible reminder of those troops who made the ultimate sacrifice and a reminder of the support needed for our troops who come back home." Thus far, more than 4000 men and women in our armed forces have been killed in Iraq or Afghanistan, including at least 170 men and women from Illinois. Nearly 30,000 service men and women have been wounded. "Regardless of what people think of the war in Iraq or our policy there, we all agree that the troops that are serving there are heroes, and they deserve to be honored," stated Lipinski. "I have fought hard to greatly increase support for our veterans who return home, and we have been successful in passing the largest increase ever in the budget for the VA. It is fitting that we properly honor our fallen troops by erecting this memorial and providing support for the families they have left behind." Representative Lipinski is working with the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission (NCMAC) to develop legislation to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of Columbia to honor members of the Armed Forces who died while serving in Iraq or Afghanistan. (November 12, 2007) ###
11.09.2007	Washington D.C.] - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted in support of legislation that will protect 23 million middle-class families from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax and extend a number of popular tax provisions set to expire this year. This tax relief is fully offset by closing loopholes and eliminating narrowly targeted tax benefits enjoyed by a few millionaires and billionaires. Specifically, the legislation contains a provision to treat the "carried interest" received by investment fund managers as income rather than capital gains. "For too long, hardworking families have struggled to keep pace with the rising cost of living," said Lipinski. "By passing this legislation to extend the AMT exemptions, we're putting money back in the pockets of working families to combat the growing economic insecurity gripping our nation." The AMT was designed in 1969 to ensure that the wealthiest taxpayers are not able to avoid paying taxes by taking advantage of tax loopholes. Unfortunately, the AMT was not crafted to adjust for inflation, and has morphed from a "class tax" to a "mass tax." If no action is taken to fix this tax, 87,053 middle-class families in Illinois' Third Congressional district will be hit by the AMT on their 2007 taxes. "By enacting this fix we are saving more than 82,000 families in the Third Congressional District from paying a tax they should not have to pay," said Lipinski. "This is a central issue of fairness for middle-class families and I am proud to fight for them." In addition to providing AMT tax relief, this legislation would provide: Help for more than 12 million children through an expanded child tax credit Tax relief for 30 million taxpayers by providing a standard deduction for real estate taxes Help more than 4.5 million families cover the cost of education through the tuition deduction Tax relief for more than 11 million families by extending itemized deductions for State & local sales tax Relief for more than 3.5 million teachers who would be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses for their classrooms (November 9, 2007) ###
11.08.2007	[Washington, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) voted against legislation to implement a trade agreement with Peru that would result in the loss of more American jobs and the further depression of wages for American workers. The Peru Free Trade Agreement, which ultimately passed 285-132, was negotiated by the Bush Administration and is intended to reduce trade barriers between the United States and Peru. "This is another in a series of trade agreements that has hurt American families," said Rep. Lipinski. "Our trade agreements should create jobs and increase wages in this country rather than continue the outsourcing of millions of American jobs. Unfortunately, this trade agreement with Peru expands the misguided policy of NAFTA, CAFTA, and similar trade agreements." "For this reason, I have already joined with Rep. Michaud (D-ME) in introducing legislation to repeal this flawed trade deal," said Rep. Lipinski. NAFTA, the trade agreement between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, was hailed as a victory for America's economy when it was implemented in January of 1994. However, since its implementation, outsourcing from the United States to Mexico and Canada has directly led to a net loss of 879,280 American jobs including over 47,000 jobs in Illinois. In the same period, real wages for most working Americans have remained stagnant. "The impact of trade agreements has been particularly devastating on those who work in manufacturing," said Rep. Lipinski. "NAFTA and the other flawed trade agreements implemented since 1994 have resulted in the loss of over 3 million American manufacturing jobs, including over 100,000 jobs in Chicagoland alone, many in my district. Manufacturing jobs are typically well-paid, and maintaining a domestic manufacturing base is essential for ensuring that the U.S. is not dependent on hostile, foreign nations for goods that are critical for our economy and critical for our national defense." In an effort to help address some of the hardships families face as a result of bad trade agreements, Congressman Lipinski helped pass legislation last week expanding assistance for workers who have suffered as a result of foreign trade. That bill, H.R. 3920, increases benefits, training, and health care resources for displaced workers and was approved by the House of Representatives by a 264-157 vote. "With the United States' trade deficit over $600 billion and with millions of Americans already suffering the effects of previous trade deals, now is not the time to expand trade preferences," said. Rep. Lipinski. "Instead, we must continue to support workers who have lost their jobs due to trade and work to develop a new trade model that protects the environment, respects the rights of workers, and benefits all Americans. If we don't, working families will continue to suffer." (November 8, 2007) ###
11.07.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced that the North Palos Fire Protection District, which serves the City of Palos Hills and its surrounding communities, will be awarded $112,685 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). This grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. "The firefighters of North Palos Fire Protection District heroically serve Palos Hills and neighboring communities," said Rep. Lipinski. "And in a time of increasing demands on our first-responders, it is only right that we provide greater resources for them to do their job. This grant of over one-hundred thousand dollars will significantly assist the North Palos Fire Protection District in further ensuring the safety and quality of life of local residents. I am proud to announce this grant award and look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of the Third District's first responders." Since entering office in 2005, Congressman Lipinski has brought back over $2.6 million in federal funding to over 20 fire departments and fire protection districts in the Third Congressional District of Illinois. These funds are used to assist firefighters and other first responders in obtaining emergency vehicles, equipment, protective gear, training, and other resources. (November 7, 2007) ###
11.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski participated in a press conference at the Chicago Climate Exchange to announce the results of a carbon auction on behalf of the U.S. House of Representatives. As part of the Greening the Capitol Initiative, the House purchased carbon credits in its quest to offset its emissions of climate changing greenhouse gases and become carbon neutral. "Americans are increasingly concerned about the impact of foreign energy dependence on our national security and the effects of global climate change on the planet," said Lipinski. "This is an important step in our quest to make Congress carbon neutral and I am extremely proud to be standing here, in Chicago, on this historic day." The House-purchased carbon credits are intended to offset the impact of 30,000 tons of carbon emitted by the U.S. Capitol's coal-burning power plant each year. The funds will be used on carbon-reducing measures, such as planting trees and underground storage of carbon dioxide, as well as green technologies like wind and solar power. Dedicated to reducing the federal government's impact on climate change, Representative Lipinski earlier this year introduced H.R. 1705, the Bulb Replacement in Government with High-efficiency Technology (BRIGHT) Energy Savings Act. The bill, which directs the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to replace low efficiency light bulbs with high efficiency bulbs whenever a new bulb is installed in GSA-owned office buildings, was incorporated into the comprehensive energy package that passed the House in August. "By upgrading to more energy efficient technologies, such as Energy Star-certified Compact Fluorescent Light bulbs, we can reduce our energy use by approximately 75% per bulb, preventing the release of 450 lbs. of climate changing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere," stated Lipinski. "With over 3 million lights throughout the federal government, my legislation would go a long way in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while saving tens of millions of taxpayer dollars." In addition to Rep. Lipinski, the event was attended by Dan Beard, U.S. House Chief Administrative Officer; U.S. Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL); U.S. Rep. Mark Kirk (D-IL), and Dr. Richard Sandor, Chicago Climate Exchange Chairman and CEO. The Chicago Climate Exchange is North America's only and the world's first global marketplace for integrating voluntary legally binding greenhouse gas emissions reduction, registry, and trading program. Click here for Congressman Lipinski's speech from today's press conference. (November 5, 2007) ###
11.01.2007	WASHINGTON -This week, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved a resolution authored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) which directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to search for alternative sites to replace the Lucas-Berg Confined Dredged Disposal Facility in Worth. A substitute site would prevent the dumping of dredged materials from the Cal-Sag Channel at Lucas-Berg. Passage by the committee is the final step in enacting this resolution. "Dumping dredged materials at the Lucas-Berg pit raises a number of environmental, safety, and quality of life concerns," Lipinski said. "That is why I have been working with Mayor Guzdziol and concerned residents to prevent the use of this site." Lucas-Berg is a former gravel pit that was acquired by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago and designated by the Army Corps in the 1970s as a site for the dumping of dredged materials from the Cal-Sag Channel. Although the Lucas-Berg pit has yet to be used, the Army Corps is still planning to use the site when there is a need to dredge the channel. "This site is located right in the middle of a densely populated area, and it is immediately surrounded by residential neighborhoods as well as businesses," said Lipinski. "Having an open, working dredging site doesn't make sense for the health and safety of local residents, and this resolution is the next step in correcting this situation." In September, Congressman Lipinski met with Major General Don T. Riley, the Director of Civil Works for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Col. Robert Sinkler, Commander of the Rock Island District division of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to address the problems with using Lucas-Berg and the possible alternatives. "Representative Lipinski's persistent efforts helping the Village of Worth fight the depositing of polluted canal dredgings in our Town is most appreciated," said Worth Village President Ed Guzdziol. "The Congressman's willingness to stand beside us in our negotiations with the Army Corps of Engineers is evidence of his concern for the health and safety of Worth residents." (November 1, 2007) ###
11.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) joined Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL) in introducing comprehensive consumer protection legislation, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act. This legislation takes a number of steps to improve the safety of consumer goods, especially those intended for children, and strengthens the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is the independent federal agency charged with verifying the safety of products sold in the United States. In the last several months, products such as children's jewelry and toys have been recalled after they were found to contain dangerous amounts of lead. And over 1 million defective cribs were recalled after causing the deaths of at least three infants. All of these products were manufactured in China. In fact, over 21 million products manufactured in China have been deemed dangerous and recalled since this summer. "Due to irresponsible trade policies and the Bush Administration's lax enforcement of consumer protections, faulty and dangerous goods from China and elsewhere are entering our homes putting Americans and especially children at risk," said Rep. Lipinski. "The legislation we are introducing today will strengthen consumer protection law and help prevent future tragedies caused by unsafe products." Among other things, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act bans any children's product that contains more than trace amounts of lead and mandates independent third-party safety testing of all products intended for children. The act also contains a number of provisions that will aid in timely and complete recalls of products already on the market if they are found to be unsafe or faulty. This legislation also provides robust funding for the Consumer Product Safety Commission to ensure that the agency is able to effectively carry out its mission of protecting the American public from unsafe products. "At a time when reports of recalls and unsafe products are surfacing daily, action is needed now to protect American consumers," said Rep. Lipinski. "Parents should not have to wonder whether the crib or toy they bought for their child is safe and America's trade partners should not be allowed to sell us unsafe goods. I will continue to work to protect consumers and fight against trade laws that leave Americans vulnerable to unsafe products and unfair competition." (November 1, 2007) ###
10.31.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Vice Chairman Dan Lipinski of the U.S. House Committee on Science and Technology heard from National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Dr. Michael Griffin on his agency's management of the National Aviation Operations Monitoring Service (NAOMS). NAOMS has garnered headlines recently due to NASA's refusal to release data collected from an air safety survey of 24,000 of the nation's airline pilots. NASA had refused to release the survey because they claimed it could affect public confidence in flight safety and the commercial welfare of air carriers. "I am troubled by NASA's refusal to release the findings of this extensive study," stated Lipinski. "The American public understands the importance of air safety, and we must ensure the government and the aviation industry are doing all that can be done to keep air transportation safe." The survey, which cost over $11 million and took more than 6 months to conduct, was expected to be the forward-looking tool the federal government would use to identify emerging aviation safety problems. Instead, NASA stopped the NAOMS project - despite the fact that it had enjoyed unusual success in gathering responses from pilots - and has done nothing since to provide the flying public with the insights gained from the survey. "The safety of the flying public and those who live and work around airports is of critical importance to me, especially with Midway Airport in my district and the proximity of O'Hare Airport," stated Lipinski. "It is crucial that these data are made available in order to give Congress, the FAA, and the aviation industry the information necessary to make air travel as safe as possible." Administrator Griffin announced at today's hearing that NASA would release the NAOMS data, reversing NASA's earlier stance. In addition, Dr. Griffin noted that NASA plans to release a technical report on this matter by the end of the year. In addition to Dr. Mike Griffin, the Committee heard testimony from Mr. Robert S. Dodd, Safety Consultant and President, Dodd & Associates LLC; Mr. Jim Hall, Managing Partner, Hall and Associates LLC, and Former Chairman, National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB); Dr. Jon A. Krosnick, Frederic O. Glover Professor in Humanities and Social Sciences, Stanford University; and Captain Terry McVenes, Executive Air Safety Chairman, Air Line Pilots Association. (October 31, 2007) ###
10.29.2007	[Chicago, IL] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski gave the following opening statement at the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit's field hearing held in Chicago. The field hearing, entitled, "Chicagoland Transportation Needs for the 2016 Olympic Bid," was requested by Rep. Lipinski to bring attention to Chicago's transportation needs in light of the 2016 Olympic bid as well as the upcoming 2009 federal transportation reauthorization bill. This reauthorization is expected to authorize billions of dollars in transportation funding. ~~~~ Chairman DeFazio, Ranking Member Duncan, thank you for responding to my request and coming out to my hometown of Chicago to hold this subcommittee hearing, highlighting the transportation needs of the Chicago area for the 2016 Olympics and beyond. I'd also like to thank all of our witnesses for your participation and input in this hearing. I know there were a number of individuals and organizations that wished to participate in today's proceedings but were unable to due to time constraints. The 2016 Olympics bid is a great opportunity for Chicagoland. All of us who live here know Chicago is the greatest city in the world. The Olympics would be our chance to showcase our region to more than 2 million visitors and to over 4 billion TV viewers around the world. But this bid is not just about Chicagoland. It is crucial to remember that Chicago's bid is America's bid. That is why I asked Chairman DeFazio to bring the subcommittee here. Hosting the Olympics creates a dramatic short-term surge in demand for transportation. During the 1996 Olympics, the last Summer Games held in the U.S., Atlanta hosted over 2 million visitors. Fortunately, Chicago already has a world-class transportation system. We sit at the crossroads of the country for planes, trains, and automobiles. Chicago is home to two of our nation's busiest airports, O'Hare and Midway, with O'Hare the second busiest airport in the world. Chicago is perhaps the most important rail hub in the world, and over 2.5 million passengers pass through Amtrak's Chicago hub each year. Metropolitan Chicago also has 25,000 miles of roads including 485 miles of freeways. Nine interstate highways run through Chicago and its suburbs. The CTA, Metra, and PACE provide extensive public transportation service throughout metropolitan Chicago, including over 2 million rides each weekday. And Chicago has extensive bike and walking paths. Chicago's extensive infrastructure and transportation capabilities mean that we are already well suited to host the Olympics. In fact, the transportation system was one of Chicago's strongest points for the U.S. Olympic Committee. However, there is always a need to continue investing and improving the system. And not only for the additional transportation demands of an Olympics; even without the Olympics, the transportation demands will increase as the region's population is expected to grow by 1 million residents in the next 20 years. Right now our committee is beginning to discuss the next highway funding bill which - I hope - will provide a half trillion dollars for transportation in 2009. Chicago must have continued strong federal support for transportation, and I will work with Chairman DeFazio and others to make sure we are once again successful in securing the needed funding for the future of our region. To accommodate this growth, there are substantial projects already underway. For example, the Federal Government, state of Illinois, the City of Chicago, Metra, and the nation's freight railroads have partnered in the $1.5 billion CREATE project which will modernize Chicagoland's antiquated rail system. CREATE will improve passenger rail service, decrease congestion on roads, and keep Chicago the vital rail hub it now is. The O'Hare Modernization Project is another critical transportation improvement that is currently taking place. And there are many other road, rail, and public transit projects planned or underway to make our world-class transportation system even better, including energy efficiency projects intended to improve upon Chicago's green reputation. I am sure a Chicago Olympics will be the most environmentally friendly Olympics yet. To keep Chicago the "city that works," vision and planning are necessary. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses on their visions and plans for transportation for the 2016 Olympics and beyond. Opening Statement (PDF) (October 29, 2007) ###
10.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Vice Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee, introduced H.R. 3955, a bill that would help team up science museums and national energy labs in order to improve science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education. The Science Museum and National Laboratory Partnership Demonstration Act would establish a competitive grant program at the Department of Energy (DOE) to fund educational partnerships between science museums and national energy laboratories. "America's energy labs are conducting groundbreaking work on issues such as energy independence and global climate change," stated Lipinski. "And our science museums are playing a vital educational role, interpreting and conveying complex scientific information for the general public. Working together the labs and museums could do an even better job educating the public -- especially children -- in the STEM fields while helping to develop a better understanding of the critical work occurring at the labs." The bill, which authorizes $80 million over four years, would fund scientific exhibits and educational programs to teach young people in important STEM disciplines, helping to promote careers in fields that are essential to a more competitive and innovative America. The educational partnerships would also be instrumental in showcasing the crucial investments made by American taxpayers at DOE energy labs. "Having grown up in Chicago I will always look back fondly on my visits to the Museum of Science and Industry," said Lipinski. "Those trips helped get me interested in science, engineering and math, encouraged me to get my engineering degrees, and continue to inspire my work on issues in Congress such as alternative energy and American technological competitiveness." "The Museum of Science and Industry is excited about the possibility of establishing a federal grant program to help the American public better understand the incredible scientific achievements occurring at Department of Energy National Laboratories," stated David Mosena, President of the Museum of Science and Industry. "Our museum continues to benefit and learn from our partnership with Argonne National Lab. I look forward to working with Congressman Dan Lipinski, the lead sponsor of this bill, Congressman Jesse Jackson, Jr., our representative in Congress, and other Members to advance this bill during the 110th Congress." Joining Rep. Lipinski as original cosponsors of the bill are Illinois Reps. Biggert, Costello, Hastert, Jackson, Jr., and Kirk. (October 24, 2007) ###
10.18.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted to override President Bush's veto of a bill to fund the popular State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The bipartisan bill, which would direct millions of additional dollars to Illinois children for health insurance, overwhelmingly passed the House and Senate last month but was vetoed by President Bush on October 3. Today's override attempt failed to receive the necessary two-thirds majority to override the veto. "I am extremely disappointed that today's veto override was unsuccessful," said Rep. Lipinski. "This past weekend at Blaine School in Chicago, I joined other Democratic Members from Illinois in calling on our Republican colleagues to break with the President and provide needed health care for children. Unfortunately, we were not successful today." "As a juvenile diabetic, I have a special understanding of how critical it is to have health insurance and access to health care," said Lipinski. "I will continue to work to provide health insurance to the most vulnerable Americans, our children." This legislation would have provided $35 billion in new SCHIP funding for the next five years, preserving continued health insurance coverage for the six million children currently enrolled in SCHIP while extending coverage to over four million uninsured children. For Illinois, this would have provided funding for health insurance for the 281,432 children currently covered under SCHIP, along with an additional 154,000 children in working-class families. "Providing our children with access to medical care is one of the most effective, worthwhile investments we can make as a nation," continued Lipinski. "Unfortunately, the President's veto requires that we find a new solution to provide for the 1.3 million children currently enrolled in Illinois' All Kids Program as well as the millions of other children who need health coverage." (October 18, 2007) ###
10.09.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski helped pass four bills in the House of Representatives designed to protect children from unsafe products. Among other things, these bills would mandate increased penalties for violations of consumer protection laws and require future recall notifications to be sent directly to affected consumers. "This is an important first step that Congress is taking to protect our children from unsafe products," said Rep. Lipinski. "In just the past few months, millions of cribs, strollers, toys, and other products from China and elsewhere have been recalled because they were found to be dangerous. Unfortunately, in some cases these products had already caused serious injuries and even death. This legislation will help prevent future tragedies." The four bills approved by the House are: H.R. 814, Children's Gasoline Burn Prevention Act - protects children from death or serious injury from burn hazards by requiring the same child-resistant caps for all gasoline containers, whether sold with or without gasoline. H.R. 1699, Danny Keysar Child Product Safety Notification Act - protects children from unsafe cribs, high chairs, and other durable infant and toddler products by requiring direct consumer notification of recalls of these products. H.R. 2474, Product Safety Civil Penalties Improvement Act - increases the maximum civil penalty for violations of the Consumer Product Safety Act from $1.82 million to $10 million over two years. H.R. 1721, Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act - protects children from drowning by requiring the use of proper anti-entrapment drain covers in pools and spas and by creating a swimming pool safety grant program to encourage states to adopt comprehensive safety laws. Later this fall, the House of Representatives is expected to consider further consumer-safety legislation which will include bans on lead in children's products and mandatory third party testing for compliance with safety standards. "Parents should not have to worry about whether products they bought for their children are safe," said Lipinski. "We must continue to strengthen our consumer protection laws and keep the pressure on this Administration to enforce our laws." (October 9, 2007) ###
10.04.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced that the Beverly Arts Center will be awarded a grant of $13,000 from the National Endowment for the Arts. The grant will be used by the Arts Center to organize a Big Read program which aims to restore reading in American culture. "This grant of thirteen thousand dollars will help the Beverly Arts Center encourage reading and foster a greater appreciation of literature," said Lipinski. "The Big Read is one of the many great educational and cultural arts programs the BAC provides the region." A 2004 report by the National Endowment for the Arts found that not only is reading in America declining rapidly among all groups, but that the rate of decline has accelerated, especially among youth. The Big Read program provides federal funds to communities throughout the country to address this growing reading crisis. "I am proud to announce this grant award for the Beverly Arts Center and look forward to continuing my work providing the Third District with important resources that help our communities," said Rep. Lipinski. (October 4, 2007) ###
10.02.2007	Rep. Lipinski Brings Education Committee Member Danny Davis to Hear from School District Leaders Reps. Lipinski and Davis hear testimony from panel of superintendents and principals WESTERN SPRINGS, IL - Rep. Dan Lipinski hosted a hearing at Lyons Township High School to discuss the changes local educators would like to see made in the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act. Rep. Danny Davis (IL-07), a member of the House Education and Labor Committee which has jurisdiction over the legislation, also attended the hearing at the request of Lipinski. The House of Representatives is currently beginning debate on reauthorizing the Act which expires next year. "As Congress works toward reauthorizing the No Child Left Behind Act, I believe it is essential to hear from local educators and school administrators about changes that are needed to make the law work best for local schools and our children," stated Lipinski. "This hearing provided a productive exchange of ideas that will help me as we begin the debate in the House." The No Child Left Behind Act is a federal law that, among other things, intends to hold local school systems accountable by measuring students' scores on standardized math and reading tests. Most of the law's provisions are set to expire at the end of 2008. The House Education and Labor Committee is currently holding hearings as it considers legislation to amend and extend authorization of this law. Numerous local school superintendents and principals from the 3rd District testified at the hearing, including Dr. Dennis Kelly of Lyons School District 204, Dr. Frank Stout of Argo Community-Summit School District 217, Mr. Thomas Hurlburt of Brookfield-LaGrange Park School District 95, Fred Wagner of Burbank School District 111, Mark VanClay of LaGrange School District 102, Mike Reardon of Oak Lawn Community School District 229, Ms. Kathleen McCord of Oak Lawn-Hometown School District 123, Dr. James Steyskal of Reavis High School District 220, Dr. Thomas Smyth of Ridgeland School District 122, and Mr. Frank Patrick of Willow Springs Consolidated School District 108. "It is clear that changes must be made in the way that the law measures students' progress," stated Lipinski. "More flexibility is needed so that schools that are providing their students with a good education are recognized and those students who are not progressing are given more help." This hearing was one of a series of events Rep. Lipinski is holding in the Third District to address ways to improve elementary and secondary education. "As a former educator, I understand how important it is to provide a quality education for all of our young people," stated Lipinski. "Today the United States faces more competition from abroad than at any other time in its history. By improving our education system and preparing our children for the jobs of the future, we will ensure that America maintains its competitive and innovative edge in the world." (October 2, 2007) ###
10.02.2007	[Washington, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski helped pass a bill in the House of Representatives requiring the President - in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and senior military leaders - to develop a comprehensive plan for the redeployment of U.S. Armed Forces from Iraq. Today's vote represents the first time that significant legislation dealing with future strategy in Iraq has passed the House with a large bipartisan majority. "This year I have helped Democratic majorities pass legislation opposing the President's troop surge, establishing firm benchmarks for the Iraqi government, and setting a date for U.S. troop withdrawal," said Lipinski. "But as I predicted seven months ago, all of these measures failed to change the status quo in Iraq because Democrats did not work with Congressional Republicans to secure the support needed to force a change in the President's failed policy." Also scheduled for a vote this week is H.R. 2740, legislation that would bring all contractors in Iraq under jurisdiction of U.S. federal courts and reverse the Administration's 2005 decision to grant immunity from prosecution to contractors operating in Iraq. The need for this legislation, which is expected to pass with bipartisan support, was highlighted by a recent incident involving contractors in which a number of Iraqi civilians were shot and killed. "This week's bipartisan votes on Iraq are good steps towards finally forcing the President to change course in Iraq," said Rep. Lipinski. "It is imperative that we build on these votes to find a solution that will lead to the responsible and safe redeployment of U.S. troops." The leadership in the House of Representatives has indicated that other bipartisan pieces of Iraq legislation may soon be considered by the House. One prominent option is H.R. 2574, a bill that Rep. Lipinski helped to introduce, which would implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Among other things, these recommendations include implementing a diplomatic surge, establishing firm benchmarks for the Iraqi government, shifting the mission of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq to counterterrorism and training, and setting a goal for completing the redeployment of American forces. Also under consideration by the House Leadership is H.Res. 152, a resolution introduced by Rep. Lipinski in February, which calls on the President to convene a peace conference for Iraq's political, ethnic, and religious leaders in order to develop a plan for political reconciliation. "The Iraq Study Group legislation has attracted over 60 cosponsors, including over 30 Republicans, and is further evidence that Congress can force a significant change in the President's Iraq policy," said Rep. Lipinski. "I believe that both the Iraq Study Group legislation and H.Res. 152 can bring stability to Iraq while drawing down our military involvement in that country." (October 2, 2007) ###
10.01.2007	Lipinski Announces $571,500 Federal Grant To Burbank Fire Department From Left to Right: Senator Viverito, Rep. Lipinski, Fire Chief Richard Harper, Mayor Harry Klein [WASHINGTON, D.C.] On Friday, Congressman Lipinski announced that the Burbank Fire Department was awarded $571,500 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). Congressman Lipinski announced the grant award at the Burbank Fire Department facility where he was joined by State Senator Louis Viverito, Burbank Fire Chief Richard Harper, and Burbank Mayor Harry Klein. The grant will be used by the fire department to purchase a new vehicle. "Federal funding is needed to meet the increased demands being placed on our nation's firefighters," said Rep. Lipinski. "This grant of over five-hundred and fifty thousand dollars will allow the Burbank Fire Department to purchase a much needed new vehicle. In doing so, Burbank Fire Department will be able to continue to build upon their already impressive record of service while improving the safety and quality of life of area residents." The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. "I am proud to announce this grant award and look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of the Third District's first responders," said Rep. Lipinski. (October 1, 2007) ###
09.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, House Science and Technology Committee Vice Chairman Dan Lipinski met with three European Union Environment Ministers to discuss transatlantic cooperation on climate change. The meeting, attended by Connie Hedegaard, Sigmar Gabriel, and Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, Environment Ministers of Denmark, Germany, and France respectively, provided lawmakers with a first-hand account of Europe's actions to curb the emissions of global warming gases and highlighted ongoing climate change talks at the United Nations. "Our discussion emphasized the urgent need for a cooperative global effort on climate change, and comes at a time when Americans are increasingly calling for action to address the dangers posed by climate change," stated Lipinski. "American ingenuity is leading to the development of new technologies that will help us address these issues. But the Federal government needs to be doing more to encourage these efforts and to institute new, efficient methods of limiting dangerous emissions." Vice Chairman Lipinski has championed efforts in Congress to reduce emissions of climate changing greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. The House has already passed three Lipinski initiatives this year that will aid in the fight against global warming. The first, known as the BRIGHT Energy Savings Act, requires the use of high efficiency light bulbs whenever a new bulb is installed in a federal office building. This will significantly lower energy usage and cut emissions of global warming gases, while at the same time saving taxpayers' money. The second initiative, known as the H-Prize Act, establishes over $50 million in competitively awarded cash prizes to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a new, pollution-free alternative fuel that will replace gasoline and diesel fuel. Both of these provisions authored by Rep. Lipinski were included in the comprehensive energy bill passed by the House in August. The third initiative establishes a new Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Air Transportation Center of Excellence focused on conducting research to find an alternative fuel for aircraft. Aviation contributes an increasing amount of global warming gases to the atmosphere and new clean fuels need to be developed. This provision was passed last week as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2007. "Scientists around the world have illustrated in dramatic detail the need to take action now," stated Lipinski. "I will continue to press Congress and the President to do more on the issue of climate change. The comprehensive energy package was a good start, but additional work is needed to promote energy independence at home while reducing dangerous emissions, creating jobs, and enhancing American competitiveness in the 21st century." (September 28, 2007) ###
09.27.2007	WASHINGTON - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski (D-IL) applauded the largest federal investment in college financial aid since the GI Bill of 1944. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, H.R. 2669, was signed into law this morning by President Bush. The final version of the bill, passed by both the House and the Senate on September 7, provides students with more than $20 billion in financial aid over the next five years while imposing no new costs on taxpayers. "As a former college professor I know how critical a college education is and I understand how expensive it has become, loading down students and their families with large debts coming out of college," said Rep. Lipinski. "This new law will provide significant help in making college more affordable for millions of students and families. I am proud to have played a role in accomplishing this victory for middle class families." The College Cost Reduction and Access Act raises the Pell Grant scholarship value by at least $1,090 over the next five years, ultimately reaching a maximum scholarship of at least $5,400 by 2012. This new aid will benefit roughly 230,000 students in Illinois. The bill also will cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans over the next four years, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent, saving every Illinois student approximately $4,500 over the life of their loans. In addition, the bill will provide tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who are going into teaching, and it will provide loan forgiveness for college students who go into public service professions. The legislation will be funded by cutting excess subsidies paid by the federal government to lenders in the student loan industry thus preventing any new costs from being imposed on taxpayers. "Making college more affordable is particularly important at a time when the costs of attending college continue to skyrocket," said Rep. Lipinski. "This new law will make a real difference in the lives of millions of students and their families. I will continue to work to ensure that financial barriers do not prevent any qualified student from pursuing higher education." (September 27, 2007) ###
09.25.2007	Congressman Dan Lipinski recently announced that he will hold a field hearing with other Members of Congress to discuss reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. Lyons Township High School agreed to host the field hearing at their South Campus-4900 S. Willow Springs Road in Western Springs. The field hearing will begin at 10:00 am on Monday, October 1, 2007. "No Child Left Behind," said Lipinski, "was a piece of legislation that was well-intentioned to improve schools throughout the country. Unfortunately, without proper funding, it has failed our students, our teachers, and our principals. With this field hearing, I hope to bring the advice of knowledgeable superintendents and principals back to Washington with me so that Congress can fix a broken system." Congressman Dan Lipinski will take testimony from school superintendents throughout the Third Congressional District on how NCLB legislation has helped and hurt their school districts. Parents and students are invited to leave written comments. With this comprehensive insight of No Child Left Behind, Congressman Dan Lipinski will work with his colleagues in the House of Representatives to make sure the program is fully funded and that recommendation to improve schools nationwide are failsafe. For more information, please contact Congressman Dan Lipinski's Chicago District Office at 312-886-0481. (September 25, 2007) ###
09.20.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, helped pass H.R. 2881, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2007, comprehensive legislation governing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and other aspects of our national aviation system. The bill was approved by the full House of Representatives this afternoon by a vote of 267 to 151. Representative Lipinski serves on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure where he sits on the Subcommittee on Aviation, the legislative panel responsible for drafting the FAA reauthorization. "This bill contains a number of critical provisions that will improve our nation's transportation system while modernizing and improving our air traffic control capabilities," explained Lipinski. "I am proud to have helped craft this legislation and pleased that the House of Representatives has passed this reauthorization by a wide bipartisan majority." The reauthorization contains historic funding levels for FAA capital programs, including: $15.8 billion for the Airport Improvement Program - over $4 billion more than the Administration's proposal; $13 billion for FAA Facilities & Equipment - over $1 billion more than the Administration's proposal; $37.2 billion for FAA Operations. "Importantly for our region, this FAA reauthorization provides necessary funding to make our runways safer," said Rep. Lipinski. "This issue is important to the many people in Chicagoland who still clearly remember the tragic accident in 2005 when an aircraft skidded off the runway at Midway Airport and into a passing car, killing a young boy. To address some of the concerns raised by this type of accident, this legislation provides over $100 million for runway safety improvements that will help protect flight crews and aircraft passengers, as well as the people who live and work alongside our nation's airports." This reauthorization also contains two provisions authored by Rep. Lipinski aimed at developing alternative aviation fuels. The first authorizes $750,000 for the development, testing, and approval of an alternative to the leaded aviation gasoline currently used by piston engine aircraft. The second provision establishes a new FAA Air Transportation Center of Excellence focused on researching alternative jet fuels to help reduce global warming and increase American energy independence. "While jet emissions still constitute only 3% of global emissions, that share is growing rapidly as the number of flights worldwide continues to increase," said Rep. Lipinski. "We must act now to reduce the amount of greenhouse gasses and lead being released into our environment." The FAA reauthorization also contains provisions aimed at protecting passengers. Airlines and airports will be required to develop contingency plans to take care of passengers affected by long delays, including providing food, water and medical care. "From my frequent flights between Chicago and Washington, D.C., I know all too well the frustration and powerlessness felt by passengers affected by delayed and canceled flights and lost luggage," said Rep. Lipinski. "The passenger protections in this reauthorization are welcome relief to all airline travelers." The Senate must now pass their version of the FAA Reauthorization legislation before it can be reconciled with H.R. 2881 and sent to the President to be signed into law. (September 20, 2007) ###
09.17.2007	[CHICAGO] Congressman Dan Lipinski today announced that the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit will meet in Chicagoland to hear regional transportation needs for the 2016 Olympics and beyond. This influential Subcommittee is charged with writing the laws that distribute hundreds of billions of federal surface transportation funds. Scheduled for Monday, October 29, 2007, this will be the first-ever Highways Subcommittee field hearing in Chicago. It will also be the first field hearing that will be used to prepare for the reauthorization of the highway and transit funding bill. Lipinski, Chicagoland's sole member on the powerful U.S. House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, called for this hearing in Chicago to prepare for the reauthorization of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a $286.5 billion highway and transit funding measure that expires in 2009. "Chicago is the transportation hub of the nation and transportation is - metaphorically and literally - what keeps our region moving," said Rep. Lipinski. "This hearing will allow us to build on Mayor Daley's leadership and help to secure funding to ensure that Chicago's transportation infrastructure is ready for the 2016 Olympics and beyond. Just as the 1893 World's Fair put Chicago on the world's map and left a legacy in Chicago, I believe the 2016 Olympics can leave an important transportation legacy here in Chicagoland." The House Highways and Transit Subcommittee is a key panel that will lead the congressional efforts to reauthorize the nation's highway and transit funding programs. SAFETEA-LU, the last bill, was passed in 2005 and authorized $286.5 billion. Illinois received over $1.2 billion in project-specific earmarks and an over thirty percent increase in federal highway funding. Its predecessor, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, authorized $218 billion. "As the transportation hub of the nation, we are in a unique position," continued Rep. Lipinski. "We need to plan for the future and start planning for the next highway bill now, so we can build regional consensus on our transportation needs, and put ourselves in the best standing for the reauthorization. And with the upcoming reauthorization bill, the time to start planning for the future is today. This hearing will provide an excellent opportunity for Chicagoland to get a head start toward securing federal transportation funding in the next bill." (September 17, 2007) ###
09.13.2007	Lipinski Announces $36,100 Federal Grant To Bridgeview Fire Department [WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Lipinski announced that the Bridgeview Fire Department will be awarded $36,100 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). This grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. "We ask for more and more from our firefighters, and federal funding is needed to meet these increased demands," said Rep. Lipinski. "This grant of over thirty-six thousand dollars will allow the Bridgeview Fire Department to improve upon their already impressive record of service, and in doing so, improve the safety and quality of life of residents. I am proud to announce this grant award and look forward to continuing to work to improve the resources and capabilities of the Third District's first responders." (September 13, 2007) ###
09.10.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Lipinski (D-IL) and Congressman Mark Kirk (R-IL) co-hosted a panel of experts at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs to discuss bipartisan options for drawing down the war in Iraq in a responsible and safe manner. With General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker set to deliver their reports on the situation in Iraq to Congress this week, and with Congress expected to consider a number of pieces of legislation related to Iraq in the coming weeks and months, today's event provides a timely and important discussion of Iraq policy options. "Americans are frustrated with the partisan gridlock in Washington that has failed to affect change in Iraq policy," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am hopeful that today's discussion will play a meaningful role in the larger process of building bipartisan consensus towards responsibly and safely bringing our troops home from Iraq. Towards this end, I believe legislation implementing the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group offers the best way to change policy in Iraq immediately while setting a goal of next spring for the completion of a withdrawal of most U.S. troops." Joining Rep. Lipinski and Rep. Kirk in discussion were participants from the Chicago Council on Global Affairs as well as the following guest experts: Ambassador Henry A. Crumpton - served in the Central Intelligence Agency for 24 years including stints as Deputy Chief of the International Terrorism Operations Section (1998-1999) and leader of the CIA's Afghanistan campaign (2001-2002). Additionally, Mr. Crumpton served as the Coordinator for Counterterrorism at the U.S. Department of State from August 2005 until February 2007. Ambassador Robert Gelbard - a career Foreign Service Officer, served as Special Representative of the President and Secretary of State for the Balkans, 1997-1999. Mr. Gelbard was responsible for the development, coordination and implementation of U.S. policy for the Dayton Peace Accords. Paul Hughes - a senior program officer in the Center for Post-Conflict Peace and Stability Operations at the United States Institute of Peace (USIP) where he led the Iraq Study Group's Military and Security Expert Working Group. "Our troops have done everything that we have asked them to do and more, but it has been painfully clear for some time that a new direction in Iraq is needed," said Rep. Lipinski. "I look forward to building off of today's discussion to find bipartisan solutions that will change the status quo in Iraq and begin bringing troops home." (September 10, 2007) ###
09.06.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Lipinski announced that the Brookfield Fire Department will be awarded $103,516 through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program (AFG). This grants program provides needed federal funds to fire departments and emergency medical service organizations in order to improve the response capabilities of our nation's first responders and the safety of our communities. "First responders are asked to do more now than ever before, and federal funding is needed to meet these demands," said Rep. Lipinski. "This grant of over one-hundred thousand dollars will allow Brookfield Fire Department to improve upon their already impressive record of service to Brookfield and the surrounding communities, and in doing so, improve the safety and quality of life of the residents of the Village of Brookfield. I am proud to announce this grant award and look forward to continuing to work to secure necessary federal funds for the Village of Brookfield and all of the communities and residents of the Third District." (September 6, 2007) ###
08.23.2007	Representative Lipinski Applauds Success of Efforts to Stop BP from Increasing Pollution in Lake Michigan WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) applauded the success of efforts that resulted in BP America's decision to not increase pollution into Lake Michigan when it expands the refinery in Whiting, Indiana. Responding to pressure from public officials and concerned citizens, BP made the announcement today. In response, Congressman Lipinski issued the following statement: "This announcement by BP that they will be environmentally responsible and not dump additional pollutants into Lake Michigan is a victory for everyone who lives around the lake. Lake Michigan is the source of drinking water for over 10 million people, including most of the Chicago area, and its scenic beauty and recreational opportunities are things all Chicagoans cherish. We cannot afford to further pollute and destroy such an important resource. "I would like to applaud BP America's president, Bob Malone, for responding to the concerns expressed by myself and other Chicago-area representatives during our meeting with him last month. As soon as I was made aware of BP's plans I knew that we had to act to prevent this proposal from moving forward. Although I strongly support moving away from an oil-fueled transportation system, I understand that we still have a need to build refineries. However, this must be done in an environmentally sound manner. I am happy that BP has agreed and is living up to its pledge to be environmentally sensitive. "However, our work to protect the Great Lakes is not finished. As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which has jurisdiction over our nation's inland waterways, I will continue to work to pass the Great Lakes Water Protection Act (H.R. 2907), which I introduced with Rep. Mark Kirk (IL-10). This bill would establish a federal deadline to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes and impose fines on municipalities who violate the Act. We must not only protect the gains we have made in cleaning up the Lakes, but we must also continue to make further progress in caring for this great treasure." (August 23, 2007) ###
08.21.2007	CHICAGO, IL - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology, called on the Senate to accept his provision to require the use of high efficiency light bulbs in federal buildings, which was included in the comprehensive energy bill that passed the House on August 4. Lipinski hosted an event at the Kluczynski Federal Building to discuss the benefits of changing to high efficiency light bulbs and to demonstrate the ease of use of these bulbs. "Installing high efficiency light bulbs in federal buildings will help cut down on energy use and greenhouse gas emissions by the federal government while saving tens of millions of taxpayer dollars," said Vice Chairman Lipinski. "This initiative was included in the House energy bill, now we need to get it enacted into law and make it a win for the environment, a win for national security, and a win for American taxpayers." Vice Chairman Lipinski has been the leader in Congress in promoting the adoption of energy efficient lighting technologies. Earlier this year Rep. Lipinski introduced H.R. 1705, the Bulb Replacement in Government with High-efficiency Technology (BRIGHT) Energy Savings Act, which directs the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to install high efficiency bulbs in federal buildings. The language was incorporated into the comprehensive energy bill (H.R. 3221), which passed the House. In addition, the House passed amendments co-authored by Lipinski on 10 appropriations bills to require federal agencies to purchase only high efficiency light bulbs. Compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs) are currently the most common high efficiency bulb. CFLs use 75 percent less energy than incandescent bulbs to provide the same amount of light, last approximately 8-10 times longer, and save up to $74 in energy costs over the bulb's lifetime. Other high efficiency light bulbs are close to commercial application including improved halogen bulbs as well as new light-emitting diode (LED) technologies which are even more energy efficient than CFLs. By using these energy efficient bulbs the federal government - the largest energy consumer in the nation - can cut down significantly on energy consumption and cut emissions of global warming gases while saving tens of millions of taxpayer dollars. "If all of these initiatives are enacted into law, most federal buildings will be required to use only high efficiency bulbs," said Lipinski. "The federal government is one of the largest consumers of energy in this country. In a time of growing environmental concerns and support for energy independence, these initiatives will help the federal government do the right thing at the right time, and also lead by example." Congressman Lipinski was joined at the event by Joe Shacter, Senior Policy Advocate of the Environmental Law & Policy Center; Rebecca Stanfield, State Director of Environment Illinois; and John Gaudette, Outreach Coordinator of the Illinois Environmental Council. (August 21, 2007) ###
08.09.2007	This week Congressman Dan Lipinski (Il-3) visited Argonne National Laboratory (pictured below) and Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory to view the work being conducted at these local Department of Energy (DOE) labs. Lipinski is Vice Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee that oversees all DOE Office of Science labs. "The work being conducted at both of these labs is helping maintain America's leadership in cutting-edge research," said Vice Chairman Lipinski. "These are two very important Chicagoland institutions that we should not overlook." This past weekend Congressman Lipinski helped the House of Representatives pass a comprehensive energy bill designed to increase American energy independence and combat global climate change, in part by investing $2.3 billion in clean, renewable fuels. The legislation includes Lipinski's H-Prize Act which establishes over $50 million in competitively awarded cash prizes to spur innovation in the use of hydrogen as a clean fuel for transportation. "As a leader in research on plug-in hybrids and alternative fuels - including hydrogen, Argonne's Transportation Technology Center is playing a key role in developing alternative energy solutions," said Lipinski. "The research being conducted here is helping America move toward energy independence and a brighter, cleaner future." (August 9, 2007) ###
08.06.2007	CHICAGO, IL - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology, hosted an event at the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) to showcase several hydrogen powered vehicles and draw attention to the continued need for federal support for alternative energy sources. "Developing alternative energy sources is critical to improving our environment, reducing our reliance on foreign fossil fuels, and creating jobs for Americans," said Vice Chairman Lipinski. "Hydrogen has an especially great potential to fuel our nation, and as we see here today a hydrogen economy is within reach if we make the proper investments." Vice Chairman Lipinski has been a leader in Congress in promoting alternative energy research, especially for hydrogen. Hydrogen vehicles have the same capabilities as fossil fuel-powered vehicles, and their only emission is water vapor. Earlier this year Rep. Lipinski introduced H.R. 632, the H-Prize Act of 2007 which establishes $50 million in cash prizes for advances in hydrogen energy technology. This bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 408-8 on June 6, 2007, and was included in the comprehensive energy bill passed by the House this past weekend, H.R. 3221. As set forth in H.R. 3221, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security and Consumer Protection Act, federal funding levels for alternative energy programs will dramatically increase starting in Fiscal Year 2008. Specifically, this legislation includes $2.3 billion towards research and development of hydrogen, ethanol, bioenergy, solar, geothermal and hydro energy. These funding levels were previously approved in legislation passed by the House Committee on Science and Technology. "Developing a new energy economy that enhances American security and protects the environment is perhaps the greatest challenge America faces today. For the sake of America's future economic, environmental, and national security, we must rise and meet this challenge," stated Lipinski. "I am confident that American innovators will do their part; it is up to Congress and the President to establish the policies that facilitate innovation. We are off to a good start but we must continue to move forward." The event featured General Motors' HydroGen3 fuel cell vehicle, an IIT-designed hydrogen powered lawn mower, a hydrogen fuel cell scooter, and an IIT/City of Chicago plug-in hybrid vehicle. Congressman Lipinski was joined at the event by: Dr. John Anderson, President, Illinois Institute of Technology; Dr. Al Sattelberger, Associate Laboratory Director, Argonne National Laboratory; Rebecca Stanfield, State Director, Environment Illinois; Jack Darin, Director, Sierra Club of Illinois; and Joe Shacter, Senior Policy Advocate, Environmental Law & Policy Center. (August 6, 2007) ###
08.04.2007	WASHINGTON - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski joined a majority in the House of Representatives in passing landmark energy independence legislation that will help make our nation more secure, create new American jobs, reduce energy costs for consumers, and fight global warming. "This bill is a victory for all Americans," said Lipinski. "I am proud to have played a part in crafting and passing this legislation that will help protect our environment and increase our national security." The comprehensive energy bill will strengthen national security by reducing dependence on foreign oil and will also help average Americans by repealing $23 billion in tax subsidies for big oil companies. The bill supports cutting edge research and the creation of new jobs and technologies by investing $2.3 billion in clean, renewable fuels such as hydrogen, ethanol, bioenergy, solar, geothermal, and hydro energy. These initiatives were previously approved in legislation passed through the House Committee on Science and Technology. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Vice Chairman of the Science and Technology Committee, Rep. Lipinski contributed two significant provisions to the bill related to alternative energy development and energy conservation. The first initiative directs the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to replace commonly used low efficiency light bulbs with high efficiency bulbs whenever a new bulb is installed in a GSA-owned office building. The GSA is the federal agency which owns and administers office space for civilian federal agencies, and by installing high efficiency light bulbs in their 1800 facilities, this initiative will cut down significantly on energy use by the federal government and at the same time save tens of millions of taxpayer dollars. The second provision, known as the H-Prize Act, establishes over $50 million in competitively awarded cash prizes to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a fuel for transportation. Every two years, four $1 million prizes would be given for advances in the production, storage, distribution, and utilization of hydrogen, and one $4 million prize would be awarded for advances in prototype hydrogen vehicles. And at the end of ten years, one grand prize of $10 million would be given for a transformational advance in hydrogen energy technology. "As an engineer by training I know it is critical that we invest in new and emerging technologies that are here today and that show great promise for the future," stated Lipinski. "The bill that we passed today puts us on a path toward energy independence that will help ensure America's continued security and success." (August 4, 2007) ###
08.02.2007	Washington D.C. - Late last night, Congressman Dan Lipinski helped pass legislation to ensure millions of children receive needed health care and to protect Medicare for America's seniors. The Children's Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act reauthorizes the State Children's Health Insurance Program for five years and strengthen Medicare for seniors and people with disabilities. "Providing our children with access to medical care is one of the most effective, worthwhile investments we can make as a nation," said Lipinski. "This legislation takes an important step towards providing all Illinois children with affordable health care by maintaining coverage for the 1.3 million children currently enrolled in Illinois' All Kids Program and providing additional support to the state so enrollment can be expanded." Among other things, this legislation would: Reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and provide millions of dollars more to Illinois to provide children with health coverage. Ensure seniors continue to have access to the doctors of their choice by stopping a 10% cut in Medicare payments. Encourage seniors to seek preventive health benefits by eliminating co-payments and deductibles. Protect low-income seniors by expanding and improving programs to ensure Medicare remains affordable for those with lower incomes. Shore up Medicare's finances by extending the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by two years. Congressman Lipinski added, "At a time when the number of uninsured Americans continues to increase, this fiscally-responsible legislation is critical to improving access to health care for millions of children and seniors." (August 2, 2007) ###
08.01.2007	Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced today that $4 million for critical projects in Chicagoland will be included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations bill and the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations bill, both of which the House is set to consider this week. "If approved, these funds will help improve the safety of our food supply and increase the security of our troops in combat," said Rep. Lipinski. "I am proud to have worked to secure funds for these worthy projects." The Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations bill includes funding for the following project requested by Rep. Lipinski: $3,000,000 for the National Center for Food Safety & Technology, run by the Illinois Institute of Technology, to continue conducting food safety, security and prevention technology research. With recent events having raised awareness of the importance of food safety, this funding will facilitate research that will help ensure that Americans have a safe food supply. The FY 2008 Defense Appropriations bill includes funding for the following project requested by Rep. Lipinski: $1,000,000 for continued research into Extreme-Condition Vehicle Tribology for Military Vehicle Technology at Northwestern University, in partnership with Argonne National Laboratory. Tribology is the science of the mechanisms of friction, lubrication, and wear of interacting surfaces that are in relative motion. This project will focus on tribological technologies that would enable military vehicles to operate with crippled systems and under extreme conditions, such as large temperature difference, extremely high explosive temperature, and sandy dust, all of which are commonly encountered in combat. These appropriations bills will be considered by the full House of Representatives this week. If adopted by the House, the bills will be considered in a conference with the Senate, voted on by Congress, and then if approved sent to the President to be signed into law. (August 1, 2007) ###
07.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Congressman J. Randy Forbes (R-VA) joined today with patients who have been successfully treated with adult stem cell therapies, and doctors who have treated diseases with such therapies, in announcing the introduction of H.R. 2807, the Patients First Act. The Patients First Act is bipartisan legislation intended to intensify research that shows great promise for producing treatments for serious diseases and other adverse health conditions. The bill seeks to promote research and human clinical trials using stem cells demonstrating near-term clinical benefits and to advance the creation of pluripotent stem cell lines without the destruction or discarding of human embryos. "The Patients First Act provides hope for millions of Americans," said Lipinski. "I can personally appreciate hope because I have juvenile diabetes which I must monitor and treat several times each day. This bill ensures that finding cures for diabetes and other more devastating diseases is correctly prioritized, while proving that we don't have to choose between advancing medical techniques and contentious life issues." The following patients and doctors attended the press conference today to support the Patients First Act: Stephen Sprague, a patient who has been completely free of his leukemia since his cord blood stem cell treatment almost 10 years ago. Doug Rice, a patient who eight years ago was told he had two years left to live with congestive heart failure. He was successfully treated with his own adult stem cells that were injected into his heart. Dr. Amit Patel, a doctor with the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, who has treated numerous patients for heart damage with adult stem cells. Dr. Julio Voltarelli, Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil, who has successfully treated Juvenile (Type I) diabetes patients with their own adult stem cells. Dr. Jaider Abbud, one of 13 patients who were the first ever to be treated for Type 1 Diabetes using adult stem cells in a clinical trial led by researchers from Northwestern University and Brazil. Dr. Abbud became insulin free after receiving an adult stem cell transplant using his own blood stem cells. (July 26, 2007) ###
07.25.2007	Washington D.C. - Late last night, the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which includes $35 million for the Capital Grants Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Program. This program provides grants for rail infrastructure improvements which address congestion, safety, and quality of life issues in communities along rail lines. Congressman Lipinski was the leader in working to secure this funding and in May wrote the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee asking them to include funds for this important program. "Rail is a vital mode of transportation in the United States, and the federal government has severely under invested in our rail needs, severely affecting many communities," said Congressman Lipinski on the floor of the House of Representatives. "Under this program, grants would be provided to a wide range of projects that would fill various critical rail needs including safety improvements, congestion mitigation, quiet zone creation, and the facilitation of local economic development." Last year, Congressman Lipinski introduced an Amendment to the Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill that would have appropriated $30 million for the Capital Grants Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Program. All types of rail lines around the country would be eligible for funding. "This legislation is an important step in the right direction, as it would be the first time that funding is allocated for this program," stated Lipinski. "Thanks to Chairman Olver and members of the Appropriations Committee, we have started investing more into our nation's railways and improving the efficiency and safety of rail transportation and the quality of life for all Americans." "With Chicago as our nation's premier transportation hub and the meeting point of many of America's major rail lines, investing in rail infrastructure is critical for the Third District," said Lipinski. Having passed the full House of Representatives, the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill now moves towards consideration in the Senate, and then, if approved by both bodies of Congress, will be sent to the President to be signed into law or vetoed. (July 25, 2007) ###
07.25.2007	WASHINGTON - Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to help pass H.Con.Res. 187, a resolution expressing congressional disapproval of British Petroleum's (BP) plan to significantly increase their daily dumping of ammonia and total suspended solids into Lake Michigan when they expand their refinery in Whiting, Indiana. This follows a meeting yesterday in which Chicago area members of Congress expressed their concerns about the environmental impact of the plan to representatives of BP. "I am deeply troubled by BP's efforts to move ahead with their plan to significantly increase their dumping of pollutants into Lake Michigan," stated Lipinski. "Through federal regulations and state and local cooperation, we have made great strides in cleaning up the Great Lakes. While I am pleased that the expansion of this refinery could help increase America's energy security and create new jobs, this cannot come at the expense of public health and the quality of our environment." At the conclusion of the meeting, BP executives -- including the company's American president, Bob Malone -- pledged to re-evaluate their expansion plans and look for ways to better clean up emissions. BP is scheduled to report back to the congressional delegation at the beginning of September. "I am very hopeful that BP will come back to us with a plan for moving forward with the expansion without increasing the pollution of Lake Michigan," said Lipinski. "It is critical that we protect this natural treasure." As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Lipinski has been a leader on clean water issues such as dumping into the Great Lakes. Last week, Reps. Dan Lipinski and Mark Kirk (IL-10) were the first to bring attention to this issue by calling on BP Chief Executive Dr. Tony Hayward to reconsider the plan. Last month both Reps. Lipinski and Kirk jointly introduced the Great Lakes Water Protection Act (H.R. 2907), a bill which establishes a federal deadline to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes and imposes fines on municipalities who violate the Act. (July 25, 2007) ###
07.24.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced that $1.6 million for critical projects in Chicagoland will be included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill and the Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill, both of which the House is set to consider this week. "If approved, this funding will help improve the everyday lives of residents of the Third District by providing better transportation infrastructure, community improvements, and opportunities for economic development, as well as better protection in case of an emergency," said Congressman Lipinski. "I am very supportive of these efforts and was proud to secure these federal funds." The Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill includes funding for the following projects requested by Rep. Lipinski: $400,000 for a parking garage in Berwyn that would serve area communities as well as provide economic development and traffic mitigation in the area. $400,000 for extension of the Chicago Transit Authority's Orange Line from its current terminus at Midway Airport to Ford City Mall. The extension would feature a new station with intermodal connections to nearby neighborhoods and southwest suburban communities. $150,000 for the construction of a community center at Saint Richard Parish serving the Archer Heights Community. This center will be used by the parish, the local community, and organizations such as the Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts. The Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill includes funding for the following project requested by Rep. Lipinski: $650,000 for Cook County to spend on Interoperable Safety and Emergency Communications Radios to allow Cook County to communicate with its 128 municipalities in the event of an emergency and would assist the thousands of first responders in the Cook County region. These appropriations bills will be considered by the full House of Representatives this week. If adopted by the House, the bills will be considered in a conference with the Senate, voted on by Congress, and then, if approved, sent to the President to be signed into law or vetoed. (July 24, 2007) ###
07.20.2007	For kids' sake, TV must go a la carte A la carte pricing would give cable subscribers meaningful programming choices By Kevin Martin, Newton N. Minow and Dan Lipinski July 20, 2007 http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/chi-oped0720tvjul20,0,7090828,print.story With the click of their remote controls, television viewers today can access some of the best programming ever produced. But as any viewer knows, networks also are offering some of the coarsest programming ever aired. More than 45 years ago, one of the authors of this essay, then-Federal Communications Commission Chairman Newton N. Minow, described TV as a "vast wasteland." He noted, "when television is good, nothing -- not the theater, not the magazines or newspapers -- nothing is better. But when television is bad, nothing is worse." That statement is truer today than it was back in 1961. In a recent congressional hearing on the impact of TV violence on children, the senators in attendance were shown a sample of the incredibly violent fare confronting American families in their homes on a regular basis. The senators requested it be turned off before even five minutes had elapsed. In 1961, the television industry was challenged to improve the vast wasteland of TV programming by giving its audience better, smarter and more interesting content. The greatest challenge for families now is not that there is too little programming to watch. Rather, it is finding family-friendly content in the growing sea of channels that customers must subscribe to in order to receive cable or satellite service. Illinois recently passed a law to encourage more competition and choice in cable service. We should also help parents determine what programming their children should be exposed to. But that means parents must have real choices, and those choices must have meaningful consequences. We believe a la carte pricing, in which subscribers would pay for only the content they want, offers families the ability to have this control. For instance, parents could choose not to subscribe to channels with a significant amount of programming rated TV-MA (for mature audiences), but still have access to sports, news and entertainment programs they want their children to be able to watch. Subscribers' choices, however, must have meaningful consequences. If a family must continue to pay for programming even when parents object to it (as they do now), there is no incentive given to programmers. Instead, there should be marketplace implications for programmers when subscribers don't want a channel, whether it is because they find the content to be inappropriate or because they simply aren't interested. With a la carte pricing, the marketplace would drive programming. Cable and satellite operators could implement a la carte pricing in a variety of ways. U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), a co-author of this essay, recently introduced legislation that would allow cable and satellite subscribers to "opt out" of unwanted channels and not be charged for their cost. Another a la carte option would be to allow customers to "opt in" to particular cable networks in the same way that premium channels like HBO are offered today. Alternatively, cable and satellite operators could allow their subscribers to pick a smaller package of channels, choosing from offers of "10 packs" and "20 packs" of channels. In addition to providing television viewers with greater control over the type of content for which they are paying, a la carte could also help reduce soaring cable bills. Cable rates have more than doubled in the last 10 years. When cable companies point to the increased number of channels being offered as an explanation for the increase in prices, they ignore the fact that most of these channels are not actually being watched. According to a Nielsen Media Research report, the average cable subscriber is paying for more than 85 channels that she doesn't watch in order to obtain the approximately 16 channels that she does. Americans deserve greater control over content and their cable bills, and research indicates it would be welcomed. According to an Associated Press-Ipsos poll, 78 percent of respondents would prefer to choose and pay for their own tailored selection of channels. Under an a la carte system, people would not have to pay for content they do not wish to receive. Meanwhile, parents would have the tools necessary to provide their children with the best television has to offer. We are of different generations, different political parties and of different views on many issues. But we all agree that our government should enlarge and expand choice for television viewers and help parents decide what is best for their children. Children today spend more time with television than in school. Parents need help now. --------- Kevin Martin is chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Chicago attorney Newton N. Minow served as FCC chairman from 1961 to 1963 and U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski represents the 3rd Congressional District of Illinois. Copyright © 2007, Chicago Tribune (July 20, 2007) ###
07.19.2007	WASHINGTON - Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) sent a letter to the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting a formal review of the permit issued by the state of Indiana to BP that will allow the dumping of an additional 554 pounds of ammonia and 1,279 pounds of sludge per day into Lake Michigan. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Lipinski helps exercise oversight of clean water issues such as dumping into the Great Lakes. Yesterday, Rep. Lipinski also helped introduce legislation expressing congressional disapproval of BP's plan. "I am deeply troubled by BP's plan to increase dumping of toxic materials into Lake Michigan," stated Lipinski. "It is ironic that a company that claims to embrace environmental values is going to greatly increase the dumping of pollutants into the Great Lakes. In the midst of another summer of record beach closings on Lake Michigan, I am asking the EPA to review Indiana's decision to grant this permit and I am strongly urging BP to reconsider their plan." The Indiana Department of Environmental Management recently approved a pollution discharge permit that will allow BP's Whiting, Indiana refinery to increase discharges of ammonia and suspended solids into Lake Michigan by 54 percent and 35 percent respectively. These pollutants are extremely harmful to human health, and contribute to beach closures, fish kills, and algae blooms. "I am deeply disturbed that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has allowed this permit to go forward," stated Lipinski. "Lake Michigan is one of our nation's greatest natural resources and serves as the drinking water supply for over 40 million people - including most of the Chicago metropolitan area. It is our responsibility to support efforts to restore Lake Michigan and work toward eliminating pollution from the ecosystem - not to contribute to the problem." On Monday, Reps. Dan Lipinski and Mark Kirk (IL-10) sent a letter to BP Group Chief Executive Dr. Tony Hayward sharply questioning their plan to increase dumping into Lake Michigan and asked for reconsideration of the plan. In addition, both Representatives jointly introduced the Great Lakes Water Protection Act (H.R. 2907), which establishes a federal deadline to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes and imposes fines on municipalities who violate the Act. Click here to view a copy of the BP letter. (July 19, 2007) ###
07.17.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] - Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced today that nearly $2 million for critical projects in Chicagoland will be included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill and the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health & Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill, both of which the House is set to consider this week. "Securing these federal funds will help take care of some immediate needs in our communities as well as providing for future needs," said Rep. Lipinski. "If approved, this money will be used to help abused and neglected children, improve local water and sewer systems, invest in new technologies, and develop new environmentally-friendly transportation. I am proud to have worked to secure funds for these worthy projects that will improve the quality of life in our communities." The Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes funding for the following projects requested by Rep. Lipinski: $500,000 for the Cook County Environmental Infrastructure Fund, to aid in improving local water and sewer systems and community environmental infrastructure needs. $1,000,000 for fuel research and development at Northern Illinois University. Working in partnership with Argonne National Laboratory, Northern Illinois University will continue a joint research program to develop a viable fuel cell vehicle that will provide environmentally-friendly transportation. The Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill includes funding for the following projects requested by Rep. Lipinski: $275,000 for Advocate Health Care's Childhood Trauma Treatment Program for specialized and comprehensive psychotherapy and support for abused and neglected children and their families. $125,000 for Northern Illinois University's College of Engineering and Engineering Technology for a center developing new technologies and working on interdisciplinary projects ranging from homeland security to noise cancellation. These appropriations bills will be considered by the full House of Representatives this week. If adopted by the House, the bills will be considered in a conference with the Senate, voted on by Congress, and then if approved sent to the President to be signed into law. (July 17, 2007) ###
07.12.2007	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] Today, Congressman Lipinski voted for and helped pass H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, which would require U.S. troops to begin a safe and orderly redeployment from Iraq within 120 days of the legislation's enactment. This bill requires that by April 1, 2008, all American troops are withdrawn from Iraq except for a minimum number needed to protect U.S. diplomatic facilities, pursue al-Qaeda, and train Iraqi security forces. By January 31, 2008, the president would have to justify the need for these troops to stay in Iraq and specify the precise mission and cost. H.R. 2956 passed the House by a largely partisan vote of 223-201, and the President has promised to veto this legislation should it reach his desk. "America's Iraq policy must change and we must begin bringing our troops home," said Lipinski. "But while today's legislation sends a strong message, if we are to truly get the President to change his Iraq policy we must have bipartisan support. That is why Congress must pass H.R. 2574, a bill I helped introduce which institutes the bipartisan recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. This bill has already garnered nearly 60 cosponsors, including more than 30 Republicans, and offers the only bipartisan plan for changing the course in Iraq and bringing our troops home." Among other things, H.R. 2574 would require the Iraqi government to meet real benchmarks in governance and reconciliation in order to receive continued U.S. economic and military support. This bill would also require the president to report back to Congress frequently and provide candid assessments of the situation on the ground in Iraq. Furthermore, this bill would shift U.S. military forces from a combat mission to training, equipping, and advising the Iraqi military and security forces. Finally, this bill would set a goal for a redeployment of most troops by April 1, 2008. "The Iraq Study Group provided thoughtful recommendations on how we can move toward successfully concluding the war and bringing our troops home, and we should start implementing those immediately," said Lipinski. "This bill provides the best chance to bring stability to Iraq while taking our troops out of harms way." The Iraq Study Group was created in March 2006 at the request of a bipartisan group of members of Congress and was co-chaired by former Secretary of State James Baker and former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Lee Hamilton. In December 2006, the ISG released its recommendations and outlined a bipartisan approach to bringing a responsible conclusion to the Iraq war. (July 12, 2007) ###
07.11.2007	WASHINGTON - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski (D-IL) helped pass H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, in the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation would make the single largest federal investment in college financial aid since the GI Bill of 1944, providing students with about $18 billion over the next five years. In doing so, the bill will help students from America's middle class pay for college, while imposing no new costs on taxpayers. "As a former professor I know how critical a college education is, and I also understand how expensive it has become," said Lipinski. "College costs have grown nearly 40 percent in the last five years alone. This bill will provide significant help in making college more affordable for millions of students and families." The College Cost Reduction Act raises the Pell Grant scholarship value by $500 by 2011, benefiting about 230,000 students in Illinois. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, maximum Pell Grants could reach $5,200 by 2011, a 30 percent increase from 2006. The bill also will cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans over the next five years, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent, saving every Illinois student $4,510 over the life of their loans. In addition, the bill will provide tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation's public schools, and it will provide loan forgiveness for college students that go into public service professions. The legislation will be funded by cutting excess subsidies paid by the federal government to lenders in the student loan industry, preventing any new costs from being imposed on taxpayers. "Making college more affordable is particularly important at a time when the costs of attending college continue to skyrocket," said Lipinski. "I will continue to work to address the rising costs of education so that no qualified student is prevented from going to college because of the price and the crushing burden of college loans. Our action today will make a real difference in the lives of millions of students and their families." The legislation now moves to the United States Senate for further consideration. (July 11, 2007) ###
07.05.2007	CHICAGO - With another summer of beach closings looming, U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) unveiled the bipartisan Great Lakes Water Protection Act establishing a federal deadline to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes. The legislation imposes fines on municipalities who violate the Act to be paid into each state's Clean Water Revolving Fund. The fund promotes the construction of sewer infrastructure to prevent future dumping. "We must end the dumping of raw sewage into our Great Lakes," Lipinski said. "It is disgusting, harmful, and just plain wrong. Those who are dumping must stop doing it or be held accountable. And only the federal government can do this." Chicago dramatically improved its sewer infrastructure to prevent the dumping of partially-treated raw sewage into Lake Michigan by building the Deep Tunnel. However, other cities along Lake Michigan have been slow to upgrade their sewer infrastructure and continue to pollute the lake. Over 24 billion gallons of untreated sewage are discharged into the Great Lakes annually, the equivalent of 100 Olympic swimming pools of raw waste per day. Lipinski and Kirk's legislation raises the civil penalties for violations of sewage dumping into the Great Lakes. Those who violate Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations after 2027 will be fined $100,000 for every day they are in violation. Both Lipinski and Kirk believe it is time to hold polluters accountable for the health of the lake system. "Pollution is not partisan and it knows no geographic boundaries between countries, states, cities, or congressional districts," said Lipinski. "That is why we must all work together to counter this great threat, and our legislation today represents a strong, bipartisan step forward to continue the progress we have made in cleaning up the Great Lakes." The legislation was introduced on June 28 and has the support of numerous organizations, including the Alliance for the Great Lakes, Audubon Society, Brookfield Zoo, National Wildlife Federation, Shedd Aquarium, Sierra Club, Trout Unlimited, and many others. Click here to view Congressman Dan Lipinski's statement. (July 5, 2007) ###
06.29.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) joined Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Rep. Mark Udall (D-CO), Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Rep. Christopher Shays (R-CO) in sending a letter to President Bush calling for him to immediately reconvene the Iraq Study Group (ISG). The House voted 355-69 last week for an amendment to provide $1 million to the U.S. Institute of Peace for the purposes of reestablishing the ISG. The ISG would focus on evaluating conditions in Iraq one year later, comparing its findings to those of a year ago, and reviewing and updating its recommendations. The Members asked for presidential action because the Foreign Operations appropriations bill - in which the amendment is included - is unlikely to be signed into law by the President quickly enough for a newly constituted ISG to report in the fall. "The ISG provides a way to break through the partisan gridlock on Iraq and it should be reconvened to provide a new, independent assessment of the current situation," said Lipinski. "But America must not continue the current course until the new report. The ISG has already provided thoughtful recommendations on how we can move toward successfully concluding the war and bringing our troops home, and we should start implementing those immediately." Earlier this month, Congressmen Lipinski, Udall, Wolf and McCaul led a group of bipartisan members of the House of Representatives in introducing H.R. 2574, a bill to implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. This bill, which was also introduced in the Senate, avoids the partisan gridlock of previous Iraq legislation and already has 57 bipartisan cosponsors in the House of Representatives. Among other things, it provides for a diplomatic offensive on Iraq, shifts U.S. forces to a support and training role, and allows for U.S. troops not necessary to fighting terrorism and protecting U.S. personnel in Iraq to redeploy by early 2008. "This type of cooperation by members from both sides of the aisle is absolutely necessary if Congress is going to significantly change the disastrous Iraq policies of President Bush," said Lipinski. "Recalcitrant presidents do not change their policies until they face bipartisan opposition. Consequently, real change in Iraq will not come until Democrats bring Republicans along on a new policy direction." The ISG was first created in March 2006 at the request of a bipartisan group of members of Congress and was co-chaired by former Secretary of State James Baker and former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Lee Hamilton. In December 2006, the ISG released its recommendations and outlined a bipartisan approach to bringing a responsible conclusion to the Iraq war. (June 29, 2007) ###
06.23.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Vice Chairman Dan Lipinski's H-Prize Act of 2007, H.R. 632, unanimously passed the House Committee on Science and Technology. The legislation establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the use of hydrogen as an energy source for transportation. Hydrogen holds great promise as a fuel because it produces no harmful emissions and will lessen our need for increasingly expensive fossil fuels that are imported from unstable parts of the world. "Gas prices continue to hit record highs, with Chicago area drivers facing some of the highest prices in the country," said Lipinski. "With no end of this upward spiral in sight, Americans are being hit harder and harder in the pocketbook. In the short term we need to pass legislation to combat price gouging at the pump and to investigate gasoline shortages. But the federal government must also do more to encourage innovation, tap into America's creativity and imagination, and help promote energy independence. I believe the H-Prize Act of 2007 will do just that." "We must free ourselves from our dependence on oil and we must start now. Hope is not enough. Rhetoric is not enough. We need to take action," Lipinski continued. "Hydrogen has shown great potential to be a key part of the solution." The H-Prize Act of 2007 would establish competitively awarded cash prizes to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a fuel for transportation. Every two years, four $1 million prizes would be given for advances in the production, storage, distribution, and utilization of hydrogen, and one $4 million prize would be awarded for advances in prototype hydrogen vehicles. And at the end of ten years one grand prize of $10 million would be given for a transformational advance in hydrogen energy technology. "Hydrogen holds great promise to meet many of our future energy needs, and it addresses national security and environmental concerns. We all know about hydrogen's potential and the great threat continued dependence on fossil fuels holds for America - now we need the vision to inspire our country to meet this challenge. The H-Prize has the potential to be this inspiration, to spur the imagination and creativity of researchers, entrepreneurs, and our youth to meet the greatest challenge of our time." The bill now moves to the full House of Representatives for consideration. (May 23, 2007) ###
06.20.2007	REP. LIPINSKI’S BRIGHT ENERGY SAVINGS ACT MOVES TOWARD PASSAGE Bill To Put Energy-Saving Bulbs in Federal Buildings Clears Key House Panel [WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski successfully included his BRIGHT Energy Savings Act legislation in H.R. 2701, the Transportation Energy Security and Climate Change Mitigation Act of 2007, a comprehensive energy and climate change bill, which passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Lipinski’s provision would direct the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to install high efficiency bulbs in federal buildings. It was earlier introduced as H.R. 1705, the Bulb Replacement in Government with High-efficiency Technology (BRIGHT) Energy Savings Act. Introduced with Representative Bob Inglis (R-SC), the bipartisan legislation garnered the support of over 80 cosponsors in the House of Representatives. Lipinski, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, worked with his colleagues to unanimously pass the bill out of the Committee by voice vote. "I am pleased the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has paved the way for the BRIGHT Energy Savings Act to be considered by the full House of Representatives,” explained Lipinski. “I thank Congressman Jim Oberstar, Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, for acting on my legislation so quickly. Installing high efficiency bulbs in federal buildings will help cut down on energy use and greenhouse gas emissions by the federal government and save millions of taxpayer dollars at the same time. It's a win for the environment, a win for national security, and a win for American taxpayers." The GSA is the federal agency which owns and administers office space for civilian federal agencies. The federal government owns approximately 1,800 facilities with about 174 million square feet of space. At least 3 million lights throughout the federal government could be upgraded to high efficiency bulbs, such as Energy Star-certified compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFL). CFLs use approximately 75 percent less energy than incandescent bulbs to provide the same amount of light, last approximately 8-10 times longer, and save up to $74 in energy costs over the bulb's lifetime. Even higher efficiency light bulbs are close to commercial application including improved halogen technologies as well as new light-emitting diode (LED) technologies. This comes on the heels of Congressman Dan Lipinski’s previous legislative effort to successfully pass similar language for Department of Defense facilities. Last month, Congressman Lipinski introduced an amendment to H.R. 1585, the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Authorization bill, which would require the Department of Defense to utilize energy efficient lighting to the fullest extent deemed feasible. The amendment was unanimously adopted by the House of Representatives. "The Department of Defense owns 240,000 buildings in the U.S. alone,” said Lipinski. “With the inclusion of GSA buildings, we will have successfully covered the majority of federal buildings with high efficiency bulbs. The federal government is one of the largest consumers of energy in this country. In a time of growing environmental concerns and support for energy independence, my legislative initiatives will help the federal government do the right thing at the right time, so we can lead by example." (June 20, 2007) ###
06.14.2007	WASHINGTON - Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced the introduction of The Family and Consumer Choice Act of 2007, a bipartisan bill that will make it easier for parents to protect their children from indecent TV programming, while not limiting anyone's viewing choices. Joining Rep. Lipinski in announcing their support of the bill were Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Kevin Martin, and representatives from a number of family and consumer groups. "In today's culture, parents are increasingly worried that their children are exposed to obscene, indecent, and violent programming," Lipinski said. "While there is no doubt that parents are the first line of defense in protecting their kids, clearly they need more help. The Family and Consumer Choice Act provides this help, without limiting anyone's choices, and without imposing a single, one-size-fits-all mandate on providers." Currently, consumers face limited choices and are forced to pay for many channels to which they would rather not expose their children. For example, in order to subscribe to popular educational, news, and sports channels they have no choice but to receive and pay for channels such as Spike TV. In addition, the "V-Chip" currently is of limited effectiveness. A 2003 study showed that only 15% of all parents have ever used the V-Chip and only 27% of parents could even figure out how to program it. The Family and Consumer Choice Act of 2007 requires any cable or satellite provider to do one of the following: Apply broadcast indecency standards to their programming between 6 am and 10 pm; Allow subscribers to choose a real family tier of programming; a family tier is defined to include all the channels in the Expanded Basic Tier, except those that have programming unsuitable for children between 6 am and 10 pm (programs rated TV-Mature or TV-14); or Offer an opt-out a la carte programming option, such that any channel a subscriber does not want to receive will be blocked, with the subscriber receiving a credit on their bill for the blocked channels. This bill is similar to legislation Rep. Lipinski introduced last year. "With so much to worry about in today's increasingly busy world, parents are asking for some help in protecting their children from TV material they find inappropriate," said Lipinski. "It is time for Congress to act for America's families." (June 14, 2007) ###
06.13.2007	Lipinski Calls for Fair Trade Deals that Protect American Workers Members of Congress, American and Korean Labor Leaders Express Opposition to Proposed Trade Agreement [Washington, D.C.] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski was joined by a bipartisan group of members of Congress along with labor leaders from the U.S. and South Korea in expressing strong opposition to the proposed U.S.-Korea Trade Agreement. The Bush Administration concluded negotiations on the Korean Trade Agreement on April 1, 2007. However, the agreement must still clear both Congress and the Korean legislature. "I am especially glad to be joined today by Korean workers, showing that opposition to this trade agreement is not about U.S. protectionism nor is it anti-Korean, it is about protecting hardworking men and women," said Lipinski. "We are not opposed to trade. We are opposed to destroying jobs, cutting wages and benefits, harming the environment, and expanding trade deficits. Congress must finally stand up for American workers." The United States has a huge trade deficit with Korea, totaling $14 billion in 2006. Eighty percent of that trade deficit is attributed to Korea's closed automotive markets. While Korean automakers exported 700,000 cars to the U.S. in 2006, American carmakers sold only 4,000 cars in Korea. However, the proposed trade agreement makes no real effort to level the playing field in automotive trade between the two countries. "Unfair trade agreements have already cost this country millions of quality jobs and placed undue hardships on hardworking Americans," said Lipinski. "NAFTA, which this proposed trade agreement is modeled after, led to the loss of 100,000 manufacturing jobs in Chicagoland alone. Our country and my district cannot afford to have the mistakes of NAFTA repeated in Korea." In Korea, the announcement of the trade deal with the United States was met with mass protests and several hunger strikes. Korean workers fear this trade deal will lead to increased exploitation of workers in their country and a loss of labor rights. (June 13, 2007) ###
06.12.2007	Congressman Lipinski Honors Victims of Communism Joins in Dedicating New Memorial in Washington D.C. Honoring Their Struggle [WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined President Bush, members of the Polish and Czech Parliaments, the Ambassador from the Vatican, foreign dignitaries, and ethnic and religious leaders in dedicating a new memorial in Washington, D.C. to honor the victims of communism. The memorial seeks to honor the more than 100 million individuals killed by communist conquests, revolutions, civil wars, purges, wars by proxy, and other violent means. "This memorial to the victims of communism is long overdue," said Lipinski. "In my district there are many people who suffered under communism, watched relatives and friends perish, and were forced to leave their homes and their countries. This is especially true of the many Central and Eastern Europeans, such as my wife and myself, whose countries were so devastated under the Soviet regime." The memorial was authorized unanimously by Congress in 1993 and signed into law by then-President Clinton. It features a 10-foot bronze replica of the "Goddess of Democracy," modeled after a statue erected by students during the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. The memorial enjoys a prominent position in downtown Washington, only a few blocks away from the U.S. Capitol. "I will never forget my experiences in Berlin at the fall of the Wall in 1989," recalled Lipinski. "It is especially fitting that we dedicate this memorial on the 20th anniversary of President Reagan's famous demand, ‘Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!' As the Wall came down I witnessed the first taste of freedom for so many who suffered under communism. This experience will always remind me of the need to stand up for freedom." (June 12, 2007) ###
06.06.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Vice Chairman Dan Lipinski's H-Prize Act of 2007, H.R. 632, passed the U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 408-8. Approved on a bipartisan basis last month by the House Science and Technology Committee, this bill seeks to lessen America's dependence on fossil fuels by developing hydrogen as a viable energy source, especially as a substitute for gasoline. "Today the House took a major step forward in helping America find a solution to one of the greatest challenges of our time, finding a clean, alternative energy source," said Lipinski. "American families are struggling with high gas prices, our national security is threatened by our addiction to foreign oil, and the environment is suffering from the burning of fossil fuels. Hydrogen has great potential to solve these problems by providing a clean, domestic fuel source." The H-Prize Act, introduced earlier this year by Rep. Lipinski along with Rep. Bob Inglis of South Carolina, establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for breakthroughs in the use of hydrogen as an energy source for transportation. With clean water vapor as its only emission, hydrogen holds great promise as a clean fuel that will lessen our need for increasingly expensive fossil fuels that are imported from unstable parts of the world. Hydrogen-powered cars already exist, but further research and development is needed before they are commercially viable. "As Chicago area drivers face some of the highest gas prices in the country, I have worked to pass legislation to combat price gouging at the pump and to investigate gasoline shortages," stated Lipinski. "But the federal government also must do more to encourage innovation, tap into America's creativity and imagination, and produce a long-term solution. The H-Prize Act will do just that." The H-Prize Act of 2007 would establish competitively awarded cash prizes to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a fuel for transportation. Every two years, four $1 million prizes would be given for advances in the production, storage, distribution, and utilization of hydrogen, and one $4 million prize would be awarded for advances in prototype hydrogen vehicles. And at the end of ten years, one grand prize of $10 million would be given for a transformational advance in hydrogen energy technology. The bill now moves to the Senate for further consideration. (June 6, 2007) ###
06.05.2007	Lipinski Leads Bipartisan Bill to Implement the Iraq Study Group Recommendations Bill Provides Consensus Policy Toward Conclusion of War in Iraq [Washington, D.C.] Today, Congressmen Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Mark Udall (D-CO), and Frank Wolf (R-VA) were joined by 41 bipartisan members of the House of Representatives in introducing a bill that would implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group (ISG). The widely-supported bipartisan bill - which was also introduced in the Senate today - provides an important opportunity to come together and move beyond the current lack of consensus regarding America's Iraq policy. "With this bill, Democrats and Republicans are joining together for the first time behind a proposal that would bring real change in Iraq, including shifting responsibility to the Iraqi government and facilitating the redeployment of our troops," said Lipinski. "This type of cooperation is absolutely necessary if Congress is going to significantly change the disastrous Iraq policies of this Administration." The ISG was created in March 2006 at the request of a bipartisan group of members of Congress and was co-chaired by former Secretary of State James Baker and former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Lee Hamilton. In December 2006, the ISG released its recommendations and outlined a bipartisan approach to bringing a responsible conclusion to the Iraq war. Among other things, the Iraq Study Group bill would require the Iraqi government to meet real benchmarks in governance and reconciliation in order to receive continued U.S. economic and military support. These benchmarks would not be subject to a presidential waiver. This bill would also require the President to report back to Congress frequently and provide candid assessments of the situation on the ground in Iraq. Furthermore, this bill would shift U.S. military forces from a combat mission to training, equipping, and advising the Iraqi military and security forces. Finally, this bill would set a goal for a redeployment of most troops by March 2008. "There are two reasons that I am helping to lead on a bipartisan plan," stated Lipinski. "First, foreign policy - especially when are troops are in the field - should not be driven by politics. It is time to come together as Americans to provide the best policy for our nation's future and for our brave troops. Second, history shows that recalcitrant presidents are often only forced to change course when they lose the support of members of their own party. Therefore, real change in Iraq will only come when both parties commit to a new policy direction, as we have done today." Since the release of the Iraq Study Group report, Congressman Lipinski has been working to build consensus around its core proposals. In February of this year, he introduced H.Res.152 to launch a "diplomatic offensive" on Iraq as the key to achieving stability. The resolution calls on the President of the United States to convene a peace conference for Iraqi leaders (similar to the one that led to the Dayton Accords on Bosnia), diplomatically engage all countries interested in Iraq's future, and provide Congress with greater information regarding security and reconstruction in Iraq. Lipinski's resolution garnered support from members of the Iraq Study Group, with co-chairman Lee Hamilton writing in a letter to Congressman Lipinski, "I commend you for your excellent proposal. I agree with you completely on the importance of broad-based pressure from a variety of international sources to push Iraqi leaders in the direction of national reconciliation." The proposal for a peace conference also has been embraced by New Mexico Governor and presidential candidate Bill Richardson. (June 5, 2007) ###
05.16.2007	House Passes Lipinski Amendment to Save Energy, Protect the Environment, and Save Taxpayer MoneyRequires Use of Energy Efficient Lighting by Department of Defense [Washington, D.C.] Today, the House of Representatives unanimously approved an amendment offered by Congressman Dan Lipinski that would require the Department of Defense to begin using high efficiency light bulbs. The amendment was offered to H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which sets the spending levels for next year’s Defense budget. “At a time when we are working to move a new energy plan forward, this amendment is a rare win, win, win opportunity,” stated Lipinski. High efficiency light bulbs, such as compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs), use approximately 75 percent less energy than standard incandescent bulbs and last approximately 8 to 10 times longer. Replacing an ordinary bulb with a CFL could save up to $74 in energy costs over the bulb's lifetime. Even higher efficiency light bulbs are close to commercial application including a new generation of halogen bulbs and new light-emitting diode (LED). “When you consider that the DOD has over 240,000 buildings in the U.S. alone, it is clear that this amendment is a practical way to make significant progress in lowering energy consumption, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and promoting energy independence, while at the same time saving millions of American taxpayer dollars,” said Lipinski during floor debate. Congressman Lipinski’s amendment – cosponsored by Rep. Inglis (SC), Rep. Markey (MA), and Rep. Kirk (IL) – directs the Department of Defense to install high efficiency light bulbs during the normal course of maintenance, or whenever a building is significantly altered or constructed. To make sure the requirement does not interfere with national security, the Secretary of Defense is given flexibility in determining instances in which the use of energy efficient lighting is not feasible. (May 16, 2007) ###
05.16.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced that the City of Chicago will receive $15 million to make runway safety improvements at Midway Airport. The grant, secured through the U.S. Department of Transportation, will be used to install arrestor beds in the runway safety areas to prevent incidents such as the one that occurred in December 2005. That accident, which killed a six year-old boy in a passing car, involved a Southwest Airlines jet skidding off the runway and crashing through the barrier at 55th Street and Central Avenue. Today's grant is in response to a meeting Congressman Lipinski had with Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Jerry Costello (D-IL) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Marion Blakey regarding safety improvements at Midway Airport in January. "I applaud the FAA's response to my request for more money to strengthen safety at Midway Airport" said Lipinski. "With aircraft-arresting beds, we can greatly reduce the chances of accidents at Midway without expanding the airport's current boundaries." Last June, Congressman Lipinski announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded a $15 million Airport Improvement Program (AIP) grant to the City to cover the first phase of a project to construct Engineered Material Arresting Systems (EMAS) along four runways at Midway. EMAS consists of a bed of specially coated cement blocks engineered to collapse under the weight of an aircraft's landing gear should it overshoot the end of a runway. Today's grant for an additional $15 million will cover the second phase and completion of the project. "I will continue to work to protect airplane passengers, as well as those living, working, shopping, and attending school in and around Midway Airport, while not adversely impacting the surrounding community," stated Lipinski. (May 16, 2007) ###
05.10.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, House Science Committee Vice-Chairman Dan Lipinski's H-Prize Act of 2007, H.R. 632, passed the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment. The legislation, which Lipinski introduced earlier this year with Congressman Bob Inglis of South Carolina, would establish competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. Hydrogen holds great promise as a fuel because it produces no harmful emissions and will lessen our need for increasingly expensive fossil fuels that are imported from unstable parts of the world. "Gas prices hit a record high this week with Chicago area drivers being hit with prices upward of $3.50 per gallon," said Lipinski. "With no end of this upward spiral in sight, Americans are being hit harder and harder in the pocketbook. In the short term we need to pass legislation to combat price gouging at the pump and to investigate oil companies for gasoline shortages. But the federal government must also do more to encourage innovation, tap into America's creativity and imagination, and help promote energy independence. I believe the H-Prize Act of 2007 will do just that." The H-Prize Act of 2007 would establish competitively awarded cash prizes to spur innovation in hydrogen energy technologies and advance the use of hydrogen as a fuel for transportation. Every two years, four $1 million prizes would be given for advances in the production, storage, distribution, and utilization of hydrogen, and one $4 million prize would be awarded for advances in prototype hydrogen vehicles. And at the end of ten years one grand prize of $10 million would be given for a transformational advance in hydrogen energy technology. "An economy based on energy outside of fossil fuels is no longer implausible," explained Lipinski. "Significant progress has been made, and with additional encouragement given to research and development, hydrogen fuel technology can be an everyday reality. Hydrogen energy has the potential to increase our nation's energy security, fight climate change, improve our air quality, and maintain our economic competitiveness - and the H-Prize will help take us there." The House Committee on Science and Technology is expected to consider the legislation shortly. (May 10, 2007) ###
05.03.2007	Lipinski Hails Passage of Bills to Spur American Innovation and Create Jobs Legislation Supports Academic and Industry Research and Development WASHINGTON, DC - This week, Congressman Dan Lipinski, Vice Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee, lauded passage of H.R. 1867, the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2007, and H.R. 1868, the Technology Innovation and Manufacturing Stimulation Act of 2007. Lipinski's support was instrumental in moving these two pieces of legislation, which are intended to spur economic growth and create jobs. "We've seen too many jobs go overseas and too many of our children are falling behind their international counterparts in math and science achievement," explained Lipinski. "The National Science Foundation (NSF) has a mission to improve this situation from the classroom to the research laboratory and that is why it is important to provide this funding which will help maintain America's leadership." H.R. 1867, cosponsored by Vice Chairman Lipinski, authorizes $21 billion for fiscal years 2008-2010, putting NSF funding on a path to doubling in 10 years. The legislation will allow NSF to foster relationships between academia and industry in order to spawn U.S. competitiveness and also improve education in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields. The legislation also improves funding rates for young researchers and stimulates higher risk research by establishing a pilot program of one-year seed grants for new investigators. "Today we stand at the cusp of numerous technological breakthroughs that will completely revolutionize our way of life; from hydrogen and other advanced fuels technologies that will free us from our addiction to oil, to nanotechnology that has the potential to impact virtually every sector of our economy," said Lipinski. "In 2006, Illinois received approximately $213 million in funding grants from NSF. Passage of this legislation ensures not only a guarantee of additional benefits to society, but continues essential support to researchers in Illinois." "As one of the largest recipients of NSF funding, the University of Illinois is well aware of the enormously important role that NSF support plays in basic research in science, technology, and engineering," said B. Joseph White, president of the University of Illinois. "The research, much of it interdisciplinary, is essential to creating new knowledge that can preserve and enhance our way of life, grow our economy, sharpen our global competitiveness, and strengthen our national security. Total research expenditures at the U. of I. exceeded $555 million last year. Our Urbana campus received more than 30 percent of its federal grants and contracts from NSF, the largest source of external funding on that campus. We applaud the sponsors of the NSF Authorization Act of 2007 and members of Congress who recognize its importance to the strength and well being of our country." Accompanying H.R. 1867 is the Technology Innovation and Manufacturing Stimulation Act of 2007 (H.R. 1868), which authorizes $2.5 billion for Fiscal Years 2008-2010 for the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The legislation fully funds the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, which helps to keep high-paying manufacturing jobs in the United States. It also creates a Technology Innovation Program, which will provide cost-shared funds to small, high-tech, entrepreneurial firms, with the goal of accelerating the development and application of challenging, high-risk, high-reward technologies in areas of critical national needs. "This legislation ensures that NIST's Nobel Prize-winning research and successful public-private partnerships will continue to contribute to American innovation and competitiveness," said Lipinski. "We are talking about investments in ideas and jobs for people here at home." Both bipartisan bills now advance to the Senate for consideration. (May 3, 2007) ###
04.27.2007	Representative Lipinski Celebrates Arbor Day Calls for Increased Environmental Stewardship Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) spoke at two events celebrating Arbor Day, at Field Park School in Western Springs and at LaGrange Village Hall. Lipinski has been very active in promoting legislation in Washington to protect and care for the environment. "Illinois' annual Arbor Day observance is an important way to recognize how valuable trees are in our local communities and in our daily lives. In addition to beautifying our neighborhoods, trees are vital in cleaning the air, preventing soil erosion, promoting energy savings, providing habitat for wildlife, and improving the quality of life for our residents and visitors." "Mitigating global climate change is one of Congress' top priorities this year as scientific studies increasingly warn that humans are accelerating the warming of the planet. In the House Science and Technology Committee, on which I serve as Vice Chairman, we have heard from numerous experts on the issue and we are working to pass legislation to prevent further harm to the Earth. Trees are critical because they absorb carbon dioxide, one of the most important global warming gases." "Today I will be helping to plant a tree and I will be handing out seedlings to elementary school students to plant to help make our communities greener, cleaner, and more pleasant places to live. I encourage everyone to take time to consider planting a tree or taking other actions to help our planet as good stewards of the environment." (April 27, 2007) ###
04.21.2007	LIPINSKI'S BILL TO INSTALL GREEN BULBS IN FEDERAL BUILDINGS GAINS MORE MOMENTUM BY EARTH DAY BRIGHT Energy Savings Act Reaches 50 Cosponsors In House [CHICAGO, IL] Congressman Dan Lipinski announced today that H.R. 1705, the Bulb Replacement in Government with High-efficiency Technology (BRIGHT) Energy Savings Act, will have reached 50 cosponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives by Earth Day. Earth Day is celebrated on Sunday, April 22. Lipinski is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which has jurisdiction over the BRIGHT Energy Savings Act, and he also serves as Vice Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee. He has been a leading voice in Congress on alternative energy issues. "Earth Day is an opportunity for all of us to reflect on the health of the planet and to celebrate the blessings of our natural resources," explained Lipinski. "Earth Day is also an opportunity to take stock of what we have done and what we can do better to preserve and improve this world for future generations. The BRIGHT Energy Savings Act is one of those things that can help." The legislation would direct the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to replace commonly used low efficiency light bulbs with high efficiency bulbs whenever a new bulb is installed in a GSA-owned office building. The GSA is the federal agency which owns and administers office space for civilian federal agencies, approximately 1800 facilities with roughly 174 million square feet of space. It is estimated that at least 3 million light fixtures in GSA buildings could be upgraded to high efficiency bulbs such as compact fluorescent light bulbs, also known as CFLs. CFLs use approximately 75 percent less energy than standard incandescent bulbs to provide the same amount of light and they last approximately 8 to 10 times longer. Replacing an ordinary bulb with a CFL could save up to $74 in energy costs over the bulb's lifetime. Even higher efficiency light bulbs are close to commercial application including improved halogen technologies and new light-emitting diode (LED) technologies. "With CFLs already in the marketplace and other high efficiency bulb technologies right around the corner, the future really is now," said Lipinski. "The federal government can take the lead and make a real difference. The BRIGHT Energy Savings Act will mean reduced energy consumption, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and saved taxpayer dollars. It's a common sense measure that is simply the right thing to do." (April 21, 2007) ###
04.19.2007	CONGRESSMAN LIPINSKI COMMENDS IDOT'S $70 MILLION FUNDING INCREASE FOR CENTRAL AVENUE BYPASS [WASHINGTON, DC] Today Congressman Dan Lipinski, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, commended Acting Illinois Transportation Secretary Milt Sees for adding $70 million to the Central Avenue Bypass project in Illinois' FY 2008-2013 Highway Improvement Program. The funding was increased at the request of Congressman Lipinski. "I am pleased that IDOT Secretary Sees included an additional $70 million for the Central Avenue Bypass in the Highway Improvement Program released today," said Lipinski. "It's a project that is critical to the Southwest side and the region, and this budget increase reinforces the importance of this project to the state." The last IDOT multiyear Highway Improvement Program only budgeted $40.4 million for the project. Congressman Lipinski's intervention has restored the total funding level to $110.4 million. IDOT has informed Congressman Lipinski that they will continue to move forward with preliminary engineering and other activities related to the project. "This is a good step forward," explained Lipinski. "Yet there is still more work that needs to be done. While this funding level will not complete the entire project, it shows that IDOT is committed to the Central Avenue Bypass, and it will help leverage additional engineering work in the near future. Additional funds will be needed to fully construct the project, and I will continue to advocate for those funds in Washington, DC." Congressman Lipinski is the only Chicago area member on the powerful House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. The Committee allocates billions of dollars of highway and transit funding across the country. (April 19, 2007) ###
04.18.2007	Lipinski Introduces Bill to Establish Amniotic and Placental Stem Cell BankLegislation Will Help Advance Research Into Lifesaving Medical Treatments [Washington, D.C.] Today Congressman Dan Lipinski introduced the National Amniotic and Placental Stem Cell Bank Act to help advance the use of stem cells in treating serious medical conditions. Studies have recently demonstrated that the stem cells derived from amniotic fluid and placentas can transform into many of the specialized cell types found in the human body, thus providing great potential for lifesaving treatments. The legislation would authorize and fund the establishment of a national bank to collect and store samples of stem cells that are routinely removed from the amniotic fluid and placenta that surround a baby in the womb. The bank would provide sufficient genetic diversity of cells so that all Americans could enjoy any treatments that are developed with the research. “I am pleased that we are working to help advance the scientific possibilities these cells provide,” Lipinski said. “Scientists in this field have noted that a national amniotic and placental stem cell bank is critical in facilitating expanded research. By providing this needed resource, they can focus their efforts in the hope of finding cures for diseases such as juvenile diabetes – a disease that I have lived with every day for more than 17 years.” New scientific research has demonstrated the significant medical potential of amniotic stem cells. These cells can grow into brain, muscle, and other tissues that can be used to treat a variety of serious diseases, and they can be easily collected without risk to the donor or embryo. However, research has been slowed by the lack of national coordination. Scientists must use their own time, money, and resources to collect and store amniotic stem cells. This diverts valuable resources from finding treatments and cures “By setting up a national bank, we can have a readily available source of stem cells that have the pluripotent properties of embryonic cells but don’t raise ethical concerns,” said Lipinski. Lipinski’s legislation would set up a National Amniotic and Placental Stem Cell Bank which will collect and store 100,000 amniotic stem cell samples to be made available for research and treatment purposes. These samples would provide the genetic diversity necessary to cover the needs of the U.S. population while simultaneously providing for the research needs of the scientific community. “The establishment of an amniotic fluid and placenta stem cell bank would further research into these areas,” said Dr. Anthony Atala. “It would add to our armamentarium of stem cell therapies that could benefit patients in the future.” Dr. Atala is the Director of the Wake Forest University Institute for Regenerative Medicine. He is also a Professor and the Chair of the Department of Urology at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. Dr. Atala’s research published in Nature Biotechnology on January 7th underscored the significant medical potential of amniotic fluid and placenta stem cells. (April 18, 2007) ###
04.17.2007	"Yesterday on the campus of Virginia Tech, our country witnessed the deadliest shooting in U.S. history. As a former college professor I am especially saddened by the loss of so many young lives, and the brave professor who died saving his students. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, their families, their friends, and the entire Virginia Tech community as we all cope with this enormous tragedy." (April 17, 2007) ###
04.12.2007	CONGRESSMAN DANIEL LIPINSKI ANNOUNCES HIS OFFICE WILL BE TAKING NOMINATION REQUEST LETTERS FOR THE U.S. SERVICE ACADEMIES Congressman Daniel Lipinski is presently accepting nomination request letters from young men and women in the Third Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies for the classes entering in the summer of 2008. Lipinski noted, "to be accepted into one of the U.S. Academies is a great honor. Many thousands of gifted young men and women compete each year to be one of those honored to be selected." The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard admissions are based on nationwide competition with no congressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday and not past their 23rd birthday on 1 July of the year they would enter the academy, be a United States citizen, graduated from high school, unmarried, taken the ACT and/or SAT tests and meet the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred Academy. The selection of nominees is based upon the "whole person" evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January of 2008, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. Closing date for completed files is December 3rd, 2007. Contact Lenore Goodfriend at Lipinski's office in Oak Lawn, 5309 W. 95th Street at (708)424-0853. (April 12, 2007) ###
04.11.2007	Lipinski Hopeful But Cautious About U.S. Postal Service Plans To Improve Chicagoland Mail Service [CHICAGO, IL] Congressman Dan Lipinski released the following statement today in response to U.S. Postmaster General John Potter's proposal to improve mail service in Chicago. The plan calls for the hiring of new letter carriers along with improvements to mail delivery procedures. Lipinski has convened a number of meetings with local Postal Service officials to address the problems and called on the independent Inspector General for the U.S. Postal Service to conduct an evaluation and audit of the situation and recommend options for improving service. "I am pleased that U.S. Postmaster General John Potter has responded to the continuing mail delivery problems in Chicago. Over the last several months, I have heard complaint after complaint from my constituents concerning very poor mail service. People are waiting weeks for overdue deliveries of essential items such as prescription drugs and checks. I have worked closely with local elected officials, including Ald. Michael Zalewski, Ald. Virginia Rugai, and Ald. James Balcer, and met with local Postal Service officials to advocate for improvements. In response to the continuing issues, last month I sent a letter to Inspector General David Williams calling for a full evaluation of the Chicagoland mail delivery problems. I look forward to reviewing the results of this outside evaluation once it is completed." "At the same time, we have all heard past pronouncements and past promises of improvements from local Postal Service officials. I am certainly hopeful that under U.S. Postmaster General John Potter's leadership, and the new leadership of Chicago Postmaster Gloria Tyson, those words will not only mean action but also real results for the millions of Chicagoland residents who are dependent on timely mail delivery. This will be an issue that I will continue to monitor." "I would also commend Congressman Danny Davis' continued leadership on Postal Service issues in Chicagoland and across the country." (April 11, 2007) ###
03.29.2007	Lipinski Supports Responsible Budget with the Right Priorities for America's Families WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted to approve the 2008 budget which will restore fiscal responsibility and accountability, strengthen our national defense, care for our veterans, and invest in our children. "This budget reflects our commitment to this nation's principles of strength, growth, and opportunity - to fully fund our national defense, continue improvements to our nation 's infrastructure, and help ease the burdens on America's working families," said Representative Lipinski. This budget provides for the largest veterans' budget increase in American history, $3.5 billion more than the President's budget. "These additional resources are needed to ensure that our nation's veterans receive care worthy of their sacrifice," stated Lipinski. "This includes the 55,000 brave Illinoisans who have served their country in Afghanistan and Iraq since September 2001, many of whom will need VA health care services." Additionally, the Budget provides increasing funding for State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), supplying much needed help to the 385,610 Illinois children who are currently without health insurance. ""Increasing funds to SCHIP is the right thing to do," said Lipinski. "Covering kids is one of the most cost-effective, worthwhile investments we can make as a nation." Lipinski, a new member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, also commended the inclusion of full funding for programs financed by the Highway and Aviation Trust Funds. "All too often, critical infrastructure investments are shortchanged due to the need to finance day-to-day operations," said Lipinski. "This budget does not make that mistake." (March 29, 2007) ###
03.27.2007	Lipinski Announces his Support for Bill to Change Iraq Policy and Increase Funding for Troops and Veterans [WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced his support for H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007. This landmark legislation puts pressure on the Iraqi government to take more control of their country, while also providing funds to better protect American troops, successfully conclude the war, and bring the troops home. The bill also provides significant increases in funding for veterans’ health care and homeland security. “The Iraqis must take the necessary steps to provide for their own security and to work for reconciliation in their country,” said Lipinski. “This bill for the first time provides benchmarks to force the Iraqi government to take this responsibility, while also providing increased funding to protect our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, and to provide better health care for our veterans who have sacrificed so much for us.” The benchmarks the Iraqi government must meet to promote ethnic and religious reconciliation include a plan for equitable allocation of oil revenue and scheduling provincial and local elections. The military benchmarks include providing necessary Iraqi Security Forces for Baghdad, giving authority to Iraqi and U.S. forces to pursue all extremists, and eliminating militia control of local security. “In addition to changing direction on the war in Iraq, this bill will help make America more secure by funding the fight against terrorist threats from Afghanistan and providing $1.25 billion for aviation security and $1.25 billion for transit, border, and port security,” continued Lipinski. “Furthermore, this bill provides over $4 billion to address the lack of funding and oversight that have plagued the health care systems of the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). When our brave soldiers return from serving our country, they deserve the highest quality care and facilities that we can provide.” Earlier this week, Congressman Lipinski testified at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing in support of his resolution calling for a diplomatic offensive on Iraq. Introduced in February, H.Res.152 calls on the President of the United States to convene a peace conference for Iraqi leaders, diplomatically engage all countries interested in Iraq’s future, and provide Congress with greater information regarding security and reconstruction in Iraq. “My resolution would compliment provisions of the supplemental by calling for a diplomatic offensive to reconcile Iraq’s competing factions and rally international support for stabilizing and reconstructing the country,” said Lipinski. “I believe following these new policies will provide us with the best chance of bringing our troops home and leaving a stable, secure Iraq.” (March 23, 2007) ###
03.27.2007	[WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski introduced H.R. 1705, The Bulb Replacement in Government with High-efficiency Technology (BRIGHT) Energy Savings Act. Introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, the legislation would direct the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to replace commonly used low efficiency light bulbs with high efficiency bulbs whenever a new bulb is installed in a GSA-owned office building. Lipinski introduced the bipartisan legislation with Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC) and was joined by over 35 other members of the House as original cosponsors of the legislation. Lipinski is a member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, which has jurisdiction of the GSA. "Americans are rightly concerned about the impact of foreign energy dependence on our national security and the effect of global climate change on the future of our planet," said Lipinski. "The BRIGHT Energy Savings will help us address both of these issues by cutting down significantly on energy use by the federal government, and at the same time it will save millions of taxpayer dollars. It's a win for the environment, a win for national security, and a win for American taxpayers." The GSA is the federal agency which owns and administers office space for civilian federal agencies. The federal government owns approximately 1,800 facilities with about 174 million square feet of space. At least 3 million lights throughout the Federal government could be upgraded to high efficiency bulbs. One type of high efficiency bulb that could be used is the Energy Star-certified Compact Fluorescent Light bulb, also known as a CFL. CFLs use approximately 75 percent less energy than incandescent bulbs to provide the same amount of light and they last approximately 8-10 times longer. Replacing an ordinary bulb with a comparable CFL saves up to $74 in energy costs over the bulb's lifetime. Even higher efficiency light bulbs are close to commercial application including improved halogen technologies as well as new light-emitting diode (LED) technologies. "With CFLs already in the marketplace and other high efficiency bulb technologies right around the corner, the future really is now," explained Lipinski. "Much of this new technology represents American ingenuity and innovation. The BRIGHT Energy Savings Act will mean reduced energy consumption, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and saved taxpayer dollars. It's a common sense, practical measure that is simply the right thing to do." (March 27, 2007) ###
03.22.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - On Wednesday, Science Committee Vice Chairman Dan Lipinski and other Members of the House Committee on Science and Technology welcomed Vice President Al Gore back to his former House Committee to provide testimony on the subject of climate change. The hearing, entitled "Perspectives on Climate Change," was a rare joint meeting of the Energy and Environment Subcommittee of the Science and Technology Committee and the Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee. "I believe that this hearing will help Congress move forward in addressing the energy challenges America faces," said Lipinski. "Vice President Gore has illustrated in dramatic detail in his Oscar-winning documentary - An Inconvenient Truth - and in our hearing today that we need to take action now." During the hearing Gore advised lawmakers on the need to cut significantly carbon dioxide (CO2) and other global warming gases. Doing that, he said, will require the development of state-of-the-art technology for new types of power plants, the use of more energy-efficient products, and joining the rest of the world in a global accord to reduce worldwide emissions. "Americans are becoming increasingly aware of the dangers posed by climate change and our addiction to fossil fuels," stated Lipinski. "At the same time, American ingenuity is leading to the development of new technologies that will help us address these issues. But the Federal government needs to be doing more to encourage these efforts and to institute new, efficient methods of limiting dangerous emissions." "As Vice Chair of the Science and Technology Committee I will continue to serve as a leader in promoting a new energy economy for America," continued Lipinski. "I call on Congress and the President to enact comprehensive legislation this year that will promote energy independence at home while reducing dangerous emissions, creating jobs, and enhancing our competitiveness in the 21st Century." (March 22, 2007) ###
03.20.2007	Lipinski Promotes New Direction for Iraq Policy Before House Foreign Affairs Committee Lipinski Resolution Calls for Diplomatic Offensive and Accountability [WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski testified at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing in support of his resolution calling for a new Iraq policy. Introduced in February, H.Res.152 calls on the President of the United States to convene a peace conference for Iraqi leaders, diplomatically engage all countries interested in Iraq's future, and provide Congress with greater information regarding the situation in Iraq. "Rep. Lipinski provided thought-provoking testimony on his legislation concerning the most pressing foreign policy issue that America confronts today - the conflict in Iraq," said Rep. Tom Lantos, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "The legislation is thoughtful and serious. I appreciate this opportunity to hear from him, and the Committee will consider the legislation carefully." Congressman Lipinski's proposal has also received praise from former Congressman and the co-chair of the Iraq Study Group, Lee Hamilton. In a letter to Congressman Lipinski, Mr. Hamilton wrote: "I commend you for your excellent proposal. I agree with you completely on the importance of broad-based pressure from a variety of international sources to push Iraqi leaders in the direction of national reconciliation." "The War in Iraq is one of the most important issues our country has faced in decades, and I thank the Foreign Affairs Committee for taking the time to consider my proposal," said Lipinski. "I believe that my resolution offers the best chance for stability in Iraq and a timely return home of our troops." The text of the testimony follows. ~~~~~~ I would like to thank Chairman Lantos, Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen, and the rest of the members of the Committee for inviting me here today. H.Res.152, which I introduced earlier this year, calls upon the President to engage in a diplomatic offensive on Iraq and to provide Congress with the information that we need to reassert our previously neglected oversight role. Up to this point, the Bush Administration's Iraq policy appears to be one of America's worst foreign policy blunders. More than 3200 of our brave soldiers have been killed, and more than 24,000 have been wounded, many very seriously. And hundreds of billions of dollars have been spent, and in some cases wasted. It is painfully clear that we need a new plan for bringing stability to Iraq and bringing our troops home. H.Res.152, calls on the President to take the following three actions: First, encourage achievement of important goals in national reconciliation, security, and governance by arranging a peace conference for Iraq's ethnic and religious factions, similar to the conference that led to the Dayton Accords. Second, seriously engage everyone with an interest in the region - which includes countries all around the world - to seek solutions and cooperation on Iraq. Third, require the Administration to provide Congress with detailed reports on the situation so that we can make informed decisions about America's involvement. I include more details of the three-part plan in my written testimony, but I will provide a brief outline here. First, the United States should join with other nations to arrange a peace conference of Iraqi leaders; the purpose will be the achievement of agreements on important goals such as a reasonable distribution of oil revenue, fair and just law enforcement, and plans for provincial and local elections, in addition to other reconciliation initiatives. Broad-based pressure from a variety of international sources resulted in the 1995 Dayton Accords that ended the war in Bosnia. Much like the current conflict in Iraq, the war in Bosnia was fueled by ethnic and religious divisions. With similar international pressure, Iraq's warring factions could be brought to the table. Peace discussions could take place in a country seen as a neutral arbitrator, such as El Salvador, which has proven its commitment to Iraq's stability. El Salvador could provide an easily secured environment, and it has special standing because of its own experience with a civil war. The second action the Administration should take is a concerted effort to utilize America's considerable diplomatic resources to rally positive international involvement. Iraq's oil reserves, strategic location in the Middle East, and its potential to become a failed-state breeding ground for international terrorism dictate that much of the world has an interest in Iraq's success. There has been some progress made on this front with the March 10th conference, but a much more serious effort must be made by the U.S. to arrange a larger, longer-lasting conference that includes higher ranking officials. In rallying support, the U.S. must talk to all of Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria. Engagement does not require ceding to all parties' demands, but talks are necessary if we are to have the possibility of increased international cooperation. An international conference should work on regional security issues as well as putting together an international reconstruction plan. Inadequate infrastructure and economic hardship remain despite America spending hundreds of billions of dollars; clearly, it is time for Iraq and other countries to step up their reconstruction efforts. This leads to the third part of the resolution, requiring the Administration to give Congress comprehensive reports addressing critical issues such as security conditions and reconstruction progress. One of the reasons we have reached this point is that Congress gave the Administration free rein without asking questions. The new Congress has acted differently, and must continue to do so - not for the sake of politics, but to ensure accountability. We should require the Administration to provide monthly written, detailed reports, in addition to appearing before committees to answer questions. This will allow Congress to make informed decisions regarding America's Iraq policy. As the US Conference of Catholic Bishops stated, "The search for genuine justice and peace in Iraq requires moral urgency, substantive dialogue, and new directions." I believe that if the President follows the guidance in this resolution - a diplomatic offensive and cooperation with congressional oversight - we will be able to leave Iraq a stable, secure country. I thank the committee for this opportunity and for your consideration of this resolution. (March 20, 2007) ###
03.14.2007	Congressman Lipinski Calls For Inspector General To Review Chicagoland Mail Delivery Problems [WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski sent a letter to David Williams, Inspector General of the U.S. Postal Service, asking him to conduct a comprehensive review of the USPS poor delivery record in Chicagoland and evaluate potential improvements. A recent USPS audit found that Chicagoland's in-town overnight delivery was rated among the worst in the nation. "This is an issue that is important to my constituents and everyone in Chicagoland," explained Lipinski. "There is no reason that we should have to endure the lowest quality of postal service in the country. While I have held a number of productive meetings with local Postal Service officials over the last four months, unfortunately, the mail delivery problems continue. Quite simply, Chicagoland residents deserve better. This comprehensive review would be a step in the right direction as we work together to improve mail delivery service in Chicagoland." The text of the letter follows. ~~~~~~ March 14, 2007 David Williams Inspector General United States Postal Service 1735 N. Lynn St 10th Floor Arlington, VA 22209-2020 Dear Mr. Williams: I am writing you concerning the United States Postal Service's (USPS) delivery problems in Chicagoland. In particular, I would respectfully request that you utilize the resources of your office to conduct a full evaluation of mail delivery issues in Chicagoland and recommend potential improvements. According to a recent USPS report, Chicagoland's in-town overnight delivery record is the worst in the nation. First-class mail sent between Chicago ZIP codes made it to the correct address the next day only 91 percent of the time. This level of success is unacceptable, especially when other cities regularly report success rates of 97 percent. When the mail does arrive, it is often well past the stated delivery deadline of 5 p.m. Not surprisingly, only 77 percent of local postal customers rated the quality of delivery as "excellent, very good or good". This is well below the U.S. average of 92 percent. Poor quality mail delivery has affected my constituents for some time. Over the last several months, I have heard from constituents and local elected officials. I have worked closely with Ald. Michael Zalewski, Ald. Virginia Rugai, Ald. James Balcer and other local elected officials in listening to our constituents. As we learned more about the mail delivery issues affecting them, we have worked to advocate for improvements at the USPS. While the meetings with USPS officials have been productive and some progress has been made, unfortunately, the major issues still persist. For example, in the month of February, my district offices received over 100 complaints about lost or late mail. Also, Chicago aldermen in my District report that they receive at least 10 calls a day from constituents regarding mail problems. Clearly, the problems in mail delivery have not been resolved. Timely mail deliveries are not just a matter of convenience. Many of my constituents rely on the U.S. Postal Service to promptly deliver necessities such as paychecks and prescription drugs. Given the current situation, I respectfully request that your office immediately evaluate and recommend improvements to the mail delivery issues in Chicagoland. An independent review along with potential recommendations would be a productive step forward, so we can work together in a collaborative manner to resolve them. Chicagoland residents deserve no less. I would appreciate your reviewing this issue and updating me as soon as possible regarding this matter. Thank you for giving your attention and consideration to this important issue. Sincerely, Daniel Lipinski Member of Congress (March 14, 2007) ###
03.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, House Science and Technology Committee Vice Chair Dan Lipinski joined Committee Chairman Bart Gordon, leaders from industry and higher education, and a bipartisan group of House and Senate members to unveil the American Innovation Proclamation. Signed by more than 270 leaders representing American businesses and higher education, the proclamation emphasizes strong support for legislative efforts to adopt an innovation agenda that will ensure U.S. competitiveness and enable Americans to succeed in the global economy. The proclamation includes calls for Congress to renew America's commitment to discovery by doubling federal basic research funding, to improve student achievement in math and science by providing incentives for teachers and funding proven programs, and to encourage private-sector innovation investment by strengthening the research and development tax credit. The document was unveiled by Harold McGraw III, Chairman and President of The McGraw Hill Companies, Norman Augustine, Former Chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin Corporation, and Robert Dynes, President of the University of California. "As an engineer and a former educator I understand that the keys to America's economic future are education and technological innovation," said Lipinski. "The proposals called for in this proclamation would ensure that America is prepared to meet the challenge of an increasingly global economy and I thank our business and education leaders for pressing Congress to meet this great challenge of our time." Last Congress, Lipinski and colleagues on the Science Committee led the House in introducing an innovation package of legislation built upon the recommendations of the widely acknowledged Rising Above the Gathering Storm report issued by the National Academy of Sciences. That innovation package in the 110th Congress includes H.R. 362 and H.R. 363, both cosponsored by Congressman Lipinski. The "10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds Science and Math Scholarship Act" (H.R. 362) seeks to establish a program to provide scholarships to students who commit to become science or math teachers at public elementary and secondary schools. The "Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act" (H.R. 363) seeks to double funding for basic research in the physical sciences in seven years and invest a portion of such funds to support high-risk, high-payoff research. In addition to these bills, the House of Representatives earlier this week passed Congressman Dan Lipinski's bill to reauthorize the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988. H.R. 1126, known as the Metals Initiative, provides research funding to make the manufacturing of American steel and other metals more efficient and environmentally friendly. As a result of this legislation, American metals industries will get help developing and implementing cost-saving and environmentally-friendly modern technology through critical grants to universities and other research institutions. (March 14, 2007) ###
03.12.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed Congressman Dan Lipinski's bill to reauthorize the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988. H.R. 1126, known as the Metals Initiative, provides research funding to make American steel and other metals more efficient and environmentally friendly. "Now more than ever it is vital to ensure that these industries are fully prepared to confront the challenges they face," explained Lipinski. "This bill will help develop the tools needed to grow valuable American jobs and businesses, and to protect the environment through technological innovations." H.R. 1126 would reauthorize the Metals Initiative at $12 million per year from Fiscal Year 2008 through 2012 to fund advanced metals research. As a result of this legislation, American metals industries will get help developing and implementing cost-saving and environmentally-friendly modern technology through critical grants to universities and other research institutions. Through the collaborative research efforts of American companies, the Department of Energy, and institutions of higher education, this program has produced several successful and important technological breakthroughs that have resulted in important environmental and energy savings, as well as innovations that help American defense. "While American industries have significantly modernized, the pace of technology and the competition from overseas is relentless," continued Lipinski, whose father-in-law lost his job as a steelworker in Johnstown, Pennsylvania when his plant closed due to foreign competition. "Reauthorization of this bill is essential to grow American jobs, keep the customers of the metals industries strong, and assure that we have a domestic supply of the materials we need for our national defense." "As a manufacturer whose competitiveness is closely tied to the cost and availability of steel and aluminum, I applaud this measure," stated Zach Mottl, Purchasing Manager of Atlas Tool and Die Works, Inc. in Lyons, Illinois. "We've seen aluminum prices go up around 80% during the past few years. At the same time, we have faced unfair foreign competition in which raw materials and other factors of production are often ‘subsidized' by foreign governments who have invested in the latest technologies. Measures like H.R. 1126, which help reduce the cost of domestic manufacturing and level our global playing field, are great for industry, domestic security, and jobs." As Vice Chair of the House Committee on Science and Technology, Congressman Lipinski led efforts to move H.R. 1126 quickly through Committee in order to ensure rapid passage early in this session. The bill was introduced on February 16, and unanimously agreed to and reported out of the Science and Technology Committee on February 28. The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for further consideration. Click here for the statement Congressman Lipinski made today on the House floor in support of H.R. 1126. (March 12, 2007) ###
03.05.2007	Congressman Lipinski's Statement Honoring the Contributions of Casimir Pulaski Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Lipinski submitted the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives. Today, we salute and honor the life of Casimir Pulaski. Casimir Pulaski was born in Poland and gained extensive military experience there before moving to the United States in 1777. At that time, the U.S. was in the midst of the Revolutionary War, and George Washington's army was in need of experienced commanders. Casimir Pulaski bravely volunteered to serve with the American troops, famously stating, "I came here, where freedom is being defended, to serve it, and to live or die for it." Casimir Pulaski soon distinguished himself in battles at Brandywine and Charleston, before being fatally wounded during the Battle of Savannah. However, his military legacy lives on, as he is still known as the "Father of the American Cavalry." As Illinois celebrates Casimir Pulaski Day today, it is my honor to join in recognizing the life and achievements of that great patriot. In Congress, I am working with many of my colleagues to pass legislation that would make Casimir Pulaski a citizen posthumously. I believe this is a fitting tribute for a man who did so much to win the independence, rights and liberties that Americans enjoy today. (March 5, 2007) ###
03.05.2007	Statement to the Press by Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-3) on Great Lakes Restoration CHICAGO, IL - Today Representative Dan Lipinski of Illinois issued the following statement at the Great Lakes Ad Hoc Congressional Hearing at Shedd Aquarium: Good morning. I'm happy to be here today to address this crucial issue of restoring the most precious resource for our area and perhaps for our country, the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes play a key role in our history, and their restoration is vital to our future. For me personally, the Great Lakes have always held significant meaning. Growing up, I remember summers spent near - and in - Lake Michigan. Chicago has made great use of the lakefront. The Plan of Chicago, more popularly known as the Burnham Plan, set out much of the Chicago lakefront as a place of natural beauty and recreation. Today, almost a century later, Lake Michigan defines the Chicago region. When I went to Northwestern for college, being near the lake was a great attraction for me. And one of the first dates I had with my wife was watching the sunset on the beach in St. Joseph, Michigan, the other side of Lake Michigan. I have a picture of this on the desk of my Chicago office. The beauty of Lake Michigan and the memories it has given mean a lot to me, but the Great Lakes are so much more. Holding 90 percent of our nation's fresh water supply and nearly 20 percent of the world supply, we are dependent upon the Great Lakes for everything from fresh drinking water, to transportation, tourism, recreation, and the $4.1 billion sport and commercial fishing industry. The Great Lakes are an irreplaceable treasure, but they are currently under attack from many directions. Pollution threatens the Great Lakes - in 2002, one-quarter of Great Lakes beaches were closed for at least one day because of public health and safety dangers. Habitat loss and degradation threaten the Great Lakes. Two-thirds of the fish in the lakes spawn in wetlands and near-shore habitat, but three-quarters of the region's shorelines have been degraded. Invasive species threaten the Great Lakes. 140 new species have been introduced into the Great Lakes ecosystem since the late 1800s, but none more deadly for the lakes than the Asian carp. Much work needs to be done to combat these threats. Last Congress, I joined many of my colleagues in introducing the bipartisan Great Lakes Collaboration Implementation Act which would help communities improve their water infrastructure systems, restore fish and wildlife habitat in the Great Lakes region, and address pollution issues by cleaning up contaminated soil and reducing mercury pollution. I am also actively supporting Rep. Kirk's invasive species bill that would require all ships with ballast tanks to flush those tanks, preventing invasive species from entering the lakes in this manner. This small legislative fix could have an enormous impact on the health of the Great Lakes. I enthusiastically support Rep. Biggert's bill to fortify the Asian Carp Barrier on the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal. To my dismay, the Asian Carp are continuing to make slow but steady progress toward Lake Michigan and we must act now if we are going to prevent this disaster from unfolding. This year when the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee works on reauthorizing the Water Resources Development Act I will be strongly committed to addressing this key issue. Since being appointed to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee I have worked hard to pass three significant clean water infrastructure bills that will directly benefit our Great Lakes. Each of these bills will be considered by the full House this week. The Water Quality Financing Act of 2007 (H.R. 720) authorizes appropriations of $14 billion over the next five years for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund which finances important projects for wastewater treatment, pollution control, and watershed management. The Water Quality Investment Act of 2007 (H.R. 569) authorizes funding for combined sewer overflows and sanitary sewer overflows. So much of our nation's wastewater infrastructure is rapidly approaching or has already exceeded its projected useful life and this bill will assist communities in updating their sewer systems. Finally, H.R. 700, which authorizes funding for the Alternative Water Sources Act of 2000, provides money for water supply projects in areas where there is a critical need. Increased funding for water infrastructure is essential to the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes, the Chicago region, and the nation. The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District - represented this morning by President Terry O'Brien - along with the City of Chicago deserve recognition for all of the work they have done to address the problem of sewage release. The Tunnel and Reservoir Plan - abbreviated TARP - but more commonly known as the Deep Tunnel project, has been in progress for more than three decades. This project has reinvigorated the waters in the Chicago area by preventing the dumping of untreated sewage during heavy rainstorms, not to mention keeping the water out of so many basements. Deep Tunnel has been costly - 3 billion dollars, but the results for the ecosystem have been dramatic. I have continued to work together with other members of the Illinois delegation to secure funding for this project and it is now nearing completion; in May of last year I was in the Village of Hodgkins at the grand opening of the final part of the tunnel portion. The Deep Tunnel project serves as a great example of what can be done to decrease pollution in our lakes if we make the needed public investments. I want to thank the Shedd Aquarium for hosting today; I can't think of a better place to hold this event. The aquarium not only sits on this beautiful site on the shores of Lake Michigan, but also plays a great educational role. The aquarium's 2007 Great Lakes Public Awareness Campaign will be using public relations, advertising, exhibits, and education outreach to continue to make people aware of the critical importance of the Lakes. As a former teacher, I know that education is crucial to bringing change. I grew up in the 1970s when the environmental movement was strong. I remember Captain Ecology and many other pop culture icons that taught us the need to care for our environment. This had a big impact on me because it educated me and raised my awareness. Everyone has an interest in restoring the Great Lakes, whether you want to swim, fish, boat, lie on the beach, or - most importantly - just have clean water to drink. People need to understand their interests, why restoration of the Great Lakes serves these interests, and what they can do. Today I look forward to hearing from our panelists about what more we can do in Washington to help protect and restore the Great Lakes. (March 5, 2007) ###
02.28.2007	Lipinski Bill Preserving Illinois Steel Jobs and Protecting Environment Passes Committee Hurdle WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House Science and Technology Committee passed Congressman Dan Lipinski's bill to reauthorize the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988, known as the Metals Initiative. H.R. 1126 provides research funding to make American steel and other metals more efficient and environmentally friendly. "The steel industry and other metals industries are important parts of our national economy and they must remain innovative in order to stay competitive in the increasingly global economy," explained Lipinski. "Now more than ever it is vital to ensure that these industries are fully prepared to confront the challenges they face at home and abroad. This bill will protect valuable jobs and vital businesses in our area, while developing environmentally-friendly technologies to prepare for the challenges of tomorrow." H.R. 1126 would reauthorize the Metals Initiative at $12 million per year from Fiscal Year 2008 through 2012 to fund advanced metals research. With the legislation, these domestic industries will get help developing and implementing cost-saving and environmentally-friendly modern technology through critical R&D grants to universities and other research institutions. Through the collaborative research efforts of American companies, the Department of Energy, and institutions of higher education, this program has produced several successful and important technological breakthroughs that have resulted in vast environmental and energy savings. Rep. Lipinski led efforts to quickly move the bill through the Science and Technology Committee today in order to ensure that the full House considers and passes the legislation early in this session. "While the U.S. steel industry has significantly modernized over the past decade and a half, the pace of technology and the competition from overseas is relentless," said Lipinski. "Reauthorization of this bill is essential to preserve American jobs, to keep the customers of the U.S. steel industry strong, and to assure that our defense industry has the secure supply of domestic steel products it needs." "The success of the American steel industry has a special personal significance for me," said Lipinski. "My father-in-law was a steelworker at Bethlehem Steel in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, before his plant closed due to foreign competition. This bill will help prevent further losses of good American jobs like his by increasing the competitiveness of our domestic industry." In the 110th Congress, Lipinski was elected Vice Chair of the House Committee on Science and Technology. This unique position has allowed him to continue his leadership on such issues as advanced hydrogen research and development, development of technologies to reduce America's contributions to climate change, and improvement of math and science education in schools. (February 28, 2007) ###
02.28.2007	Congressman Lipinski Honored at Polish Embassy for Leadership on Visa Waiver Program Expansion Washington, DC - Today, at an event held at the Embassy of Poland, Congressman Dan Lipinski was honored for his leadership in the effort to expand the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) to Central Europe. Ambassador Janusz Reiter of Poland was joined by the Ambassadors from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Lithuania, as well as representatives from the Hungarian and Latvian Embassies, in thanking Congressman Lipinski for his work on this issue. "We appreciate Congressman Lipinski's leadership in the expansion of the Visa Waiver Program," said Ambassador Reiter. "His efforts will benefit the nearly 10 million people of Polish descent living in America and will continue to strengthen the already close ties between Poland and the United States." The Visa Waiver program allows people from 27 countries to visit America for travel or business purposes for up to 90 days without a visa. Each year, this program attracts 15 million visitors to the United States, allowing U.S. citizens the ability to visit with loved ones and generating up to $15 billion for the U.S. economy. However, visitors from non-visa waiver countries, such as those of Central Europe, must go through the difficult and costly process of obtaining a visa to enter the United States. "I have helped countless constituents whose family members had not been able to obtain travel visas to visit from Poland," said Lipinski. "These constituents simply wanted what many of us take for granted - the ability to have loved ones attend major family events such as weddings and baptisms. By expanding the Visa Waiver Program, we can reward some of our closest allies, increase tourism to Chicago, and make life easier for many Chicago-area residents." Congressman Lipinski is the lead cosponsor of H.R. 561, the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act. This bill directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to permit probationary participation in the Visa waiver program to countries meeting certain security requirements that prevent illegal entry and overstays in the United States. "By setting common standards and policies for participating countries, the VWP reduces illegal entry and unlawful presence in the United States while hindering travel by terrorists and transnational criminals," said Lipinski. "Expanding the number of countries participating in the VWP will increase the number of states meeting common security standards and allow the U.S. State Department to shift consular resources used to issue visas to other missions." "Since being freed from Soviet control, the nations of Central Europe have made great economic and democratic strides," said Lipinski. "They have also been firm allies in fighting terrorism, having supplied troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. The United States should be rewarding these nations, not burdening them with costly visa requirements." (February 28, 2007) ###
02.26.2007	Representative Lipinski Addresses Chicagoland Engineers, Discusses Plans for Alternative Energy and Education Improvement CHICAGO - U.S. Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) called for improvements in math and science education, as well as support for research and development and alternative energy at the annual Chicagoland Engineering Awards Banquet on Friday. The event is part of the annual Chicagoland Engineers Week held each year during National Engineers Week. (Click here to read Congressman Lipinski's speech from the awards dinner) "Since my election to Congress I have been working with fellow members of the House Science and Technology Committee to improve our education system, particularly for science, technology, engineering, and math education," stated Lipinski, who holds engineering degrees from Northwestern University and Stanford University. "As the newly elected Vice-Chairman of the Committee, I am ready to lead the way in enacting new legislation that will keep our nation at the forefront of technology, increase the number of good American jobs, and help the environment." "Today we need the innovative capabilities of America's engineers to confront the new challenges before us, such as developing American energy independence, finding solutions to confront global climate change, and making our nation more secure. By harnessing America's ingenuity and innovative capabilities, we can spur the development of clean renewable energy and alternative fuels that will create good-paying jobs and a more secure America." Lipinski also praised the students who were awarded at the banquet for their work in the Future City Competition, Mathcounts, the Bridge Building Contest, the Illinois State Science Fair, and the Essay & Poster Contest. "I would like to congratulate the winners of each of these competitions - and your parents and teachers -- for your hard work and determination," said Lipinski. "You are the ones we will count on in the coming years to help us address the challenges we face." Each year as part of the Awards Banquet, the Washington Award is conferred upon an engineer in recognition of their service. This year's Washington Award was presented to Michael Birck, Founder and Chairman of Tellabs, Inc., for his work in revolutionizing the telecommunications industry around the world. Some of the previous recipients of the Washington Award include Herbert Hoover, Orville Wright, Henry Ford, and Neil Armstrong. (February 26, 2007) ###
02.22.2007	Lee Hamilton Praises Congressman Lipinski's Plan for Iraq Washington, DC - Early this year, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced a proposal entitled, "A New Path for America's Iraq Policy." In this proposal, Congressman Lipinski called for President Bush to seek broad international engagement to provide stability and reconstruction in Iraq, as well as to address political, economic, and religious issues in that country. That plan is already receiving praise from Lee Hamilton, co-chair of the Iraq Study Group. Hamilton served in the House of Representatives for over 30 years until 1999. He has since been a member of several national security advisory boards. Most recently, Hamilton was a co-chair of the Iraq Study Group, a 10-person panel that released a bipartisan set of 79 recommendations for American policy in Iraq. In a letter to Congressman Lipinski, Hamilton wrote, "I commend you for your excellent proposal. I agree with you completely on the importance of broad-based pressure from a variety of international sources to push Iraqi leaders in the direction of national reconciliation." Mr. Hamilton went on to add, "I appreciate your careful analysis of why we cannot simply pull our troops out as soon as safely possible and leave it to the Iraqi people to work out a solution. As you point out, our stakes in the region are great. As dire as the situation is today, it could get much worse." Congressman Lipinski's plan, which was introduced in the House of Representatives as H.Res.152, calls on the President to - (1) Encourage achievement of important goals in national reconciliation, security, and governance by arranging a peace conference for Iraq's ethnic and religious factions. This conference could be similar to the one that led to the Dayton Accords which ended the conflict in Bosnia. (2) Bring the world community together to seek solutions in Iraq, including calling an international conference to put together a peacekeeping force and an international reconstruction program. (3) Require the Administration to give Congress detailed reports on the situation in Iraq. Complete and accurate information is necessary for Congress to make informed decisions regarding Iraq's reconstruction funding and deciding when American forces can be safely redeployed. "I appreciate Lee Hamilton's words of support for my proposal," said Congressman Lipinski. "As a member of the Iraq Study Group, he has an excellent understanding of the challenges facing Iraq. If these recommendations are followed, I believe American troops can begin redeployment in 2007, leaving a secure, stable Iraq." (February 22, 2007) ###
02.16.2007	Joins a Bipartisan Majority in Opposing the President's Troop Surge Washington, DC - During a speech delivered on the floor of the House of Representatives late Thursday night, Congressman Dan Lipinski laid out his plan for achieving stability in Iraq. Earlier this week as the House began a week-long debate on the President's troop surge, Congressman Lipinski introduced H.Res. 152 outlining this plan. That debate came to a conclusion today as the House passed H.Con.Res. 63, supporting American troops and disapproving of the President's plan. "It is painfully clear that a change in strategy in Iraq is needed now," said Lipinski. "We need a new plan for bringing stability to Iraq and bringing our troops home. Unfortunately, the President's plan to add over 20,000 additional combat troops does not provide this, and therefore I must support this resolution (H.Con.Res. 63)." Congressman Lipinski cited the President's failure to provide clear benchmarks for success or a timeframe by which the surge can be expected to yield positive results as some of the reasons for his opposition to the President's plan. He also argued that force alone would not solve the conflict in Iraq. "The President continues to place too much emphasis on a military solution when it is clear that force alone will not solve this crisis," said Lipinski. "Solutions must support broad international engagement to promote stability and reconstruction in Iraq, and must address political, economic, and religious issues. Because of the need for such a plan I introduced H.Res. 152." Congressman Lipinski's resolution calls on the President to (1) Encourage achievement of important goals in national reconciliation, security, and governance by arranging a peace conference for Iraq's ethnic and religious factions, similar to the conference that led to the Dayton Accords. One possible option for a venue is El Salvador. (2) Seek international cooperation to develop solutions for Iraq; this should include calling an international conference that will work on putting together a peacekeeping force and setting up an international reconstruction program. (3) Give Congress detailed reports on the situation in Iraq so that informed decisions can be made regarding funding for Iraq's reconstruction and deciding when American forces can be redeployed. "If these recommendations are followed, I believe American troops can begin redeployment in 2007, leaving a secure, stable Iraq," stated Lipinski. The Congressman concluded his remarks by urging continued support and prayers for U.S. troops. Iraq Resolution Congressman Lipinski's Floor Statement Congressman New Approach to Iraq (February 16, 2007) ###
02.08.2007	Representative Lipinski Votes to Make Alternative Fuels More Affordable and Accessible WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted for H.R. 547, the Advanced Fuels Infrastructure Research and Development Act, a bill designed to make biofuels, such as E85 ethanol, easier to access and use. The bipartisan bill passed the House by a vote of 400 to 3. "Providing consumers with diverse fuel choices is important for our economy and our environment," Lipinski said. "As Vice Chair of the House Science and Technology Committee, I enthusiastically support this bill which will provide more fuel choices for consumers in the smartest, most affordable ways possible." H.R. 547 initiates a research and development program to make biofuels more compatible with present-day infrastructure. Many biofuels have different physical and chemical properties that make them incompatible with existing petroleum-based infrastructure. As a result, tank and pipeline corrosion, sediment buildup, and clogged filters are among the issues that can arise. The bill promotes research and development of new technologies that would allow retailers to offer biofuels using existing infrastructure, rather than refurbishing or building new infrastructure. "This bill saves fuel distributors and retailers from the extremely high costs of updating infrastructure and ensures that we'll be ready to handle these new fuels as they're integrated into the marketplace," said Lipinski. "It is a win-win situation for Illinois and I am proud to see this critical piece of legislation overwhelmingly pass the House." (February 8, 2007) ###
02.08.2007	Lipinski Announces $495,000 Federal Grant for Transit Signal Priority, Improve Bus Service Reliability and Speed WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transit Authority (RTA) has been awarded a $495,000 U.S. Department of Transportation grant for to implement Transit Signal Priority (TSP) for buses along the Harlem Avenue corridors between 159th Street, Tinley Park to North Avenue, Oak Park and along 95th Street between the Red Line CTA Station to 83rd Street. The project includes design and implementation of transit signal priority capability at the signalized intersections. "Implementation of TSP will improve the service reliability of Pace routes and passengers can expect less delays," Lipinski said. "We depend on good transportation to get to our jobs and conduct our business, and this project will help my constituents have better transportation." (February 8, 2007) ###
01.31.2007	House Passes Rep. Lipinski's Resolution Honoring American Engineers Cites Need to Improve Education to Continue American Technological Leadership WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Dan Lipinski's resolution, H.Res. 59, Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Engineers Week. Founded by The National Society of Professional Engineers in 1951 and involving more than 100 society, government, and business sponsors and affiliates, including Boeing, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Council of Engineering Companies, National Engineers Week is celebrated across the country to raise public awareness of the important contributions engineers make to our nation and to inspire more young Americans to become interested in engineering. "Engineers have helped us build boats to cross the seas, railroads to take us west, and the internet to communicate with the world," stated Congressman Lipinski, who holds engineering degrees from Northwestern University and Stanford University. "Today we need the innovative capabilities of engineers to confront the new challenges before us, such as developing American energy independence, finding solutions to confront global climate change, and making our nation more secure." Currently, there are more than 2 million engineers working in the United States, but the nation is lagging far behind many others, especially China and India, in the training of new engineers. The National Academy of Science's report entitled Rising Above the Gathering Storm raised questions about America's future technological competitiveness. This report emphasized the need for the government to take a number of actions, including addressing the looming shortage of engineers. Improving science, technology, engineering, and math education is one needed step and Congressman Lipinski has co-sponsored legislation that will address many of these education gaps. "I am one of only a handful of members of this body who has an engineering degree," said Congressman Lipinski. "People often ask me, ‘How does your training as an engineer help you?' Certainly it helps in understanding science and technology issues, math and science education, and transportation and manufacturing issues. But engineering is more than that. Simply put - engineering is problem-solving. Training as an engineer teaches you how to analyze a problem and how to put the steps together to solve that problem, no matter what it may be. It helps teach the type of analytical and innovative thinking that has made America a world leader technologically, militarily, and economically. We must do everything we can to encourage and inspire future engineers so that America continues as a leader in this increasingly competitive world." (January 31, 2007) ###
01.31.2007	Congressman Lipinski Honors Catholic Schools This week Congressman Dan Lipinski visited two local schools - St. Louis de Montfort in Oak Lawn and St. Symphorosa in Chicago - to celebrate Catholic Schools Week and express his continuing support for Catholic education. "As a product of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius, I know the sacrifices made by parents, teachers, administrators, priests, sisters, and all parish members to educate children in Catholic schools," Lipinski stated. "The work ethic and dedication to serving others that you learn in Catholic schools sticks with you for your entire life." Last week the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H. Res. 51 "Honoring the Contributions of Catholic Schools" which was authored by Congressman Lipinski. In this resolution Congress recognizes the vital contributions of America's Catholic elementary and secondary schools and honors all those associated with these important institutions. The full text of the bill and Representative Lipinski's statement on the floor of the House of Representatives are available on the congressman's website www.lipinski.house.gov. (January 31, 2007) ###
01.26.2007	Rep. Lipinski Selected As Vice Chair of House Science Committee WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski was selected Vice Chair of the House Committee on Science and Technology for the 110th Congress. In addition, Rep. Lipinski was selected to serve on the Energy and Environment Subcommittee and the Research and Science Education Subcommittee. These subcommittees oversee issues critical to maintaining economic competitiveness, national security, and the environment. "As an engineer by training and a former university professor, it is a great honor to be selected as Vice Chair of the House Committee on Science and Technology," said Congressman Lipinski. "This position will provide me with a great opportunity to continue my leadership on issues critical to our future including reducing our dependence on foreign fossil fuels, improving math and science education in our schools, protecting the environment, and increasing American economic competitiveness." Congressman Lipinski has put a tremendous emphasis on improving our economic and national security by investing in energy research and science education. Lipinski is the sponsor of the H-Prize Act of 2007 that establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. This bill passed the House overwhelmingly last year and was reintroduced this week. "Scientific advancement is one of the keys to U.S. competitiveness in a global marketplace. If we don't invest in tools that help our businesses and manufacturers compete, they can't create jobs," continued Lipinski. "This committee will remain extremely active throughout this Congress to address our many scientific and technological challenges." The Research and Science Education Subcommittee has jurisdiction on all matters relating to science policy and science education, and exercises oversight over the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). The Energy and Environment Subcommittee has jurisdiction on all matters relating to energy research and development, and exercises oversight over Department of Energy (DOE) research and laboratories, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) research and development programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) activities, advanced nuclear, solar, and renewable energy technologies, and energy aspects of climate change. (January 26, 2007) ###
01.25.2007	Rep. Lipinski Brings House Aviation Chairman and Federal Aviation Administrator to View Midway Safety Improvements CHICAGO, IL - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, a new member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Aviation Subcommittee, was joined by Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Jerry Costello (D-IL) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Marion Blakey on a tour of the new safety improvements at Midway International Airport. "Chicago is a key national and international aviation hub and it is critical that the city of Chicago, Congress, and the Federal Aviation Administration work together to continue to ensure the safety and vitality of both Midway and O'Hare Airports," said Lipinski. "Through collaboration we brought new safety upgrades to Midway Airport which will greatly enhance the safety of the flying public and everyone around the airport." Last May, the City of Chicago submitted a request seeking approval and funding to construct Engineered Material Arresting Systems (EMAS) along four runways at Midway. EMAS consists of a bed of specially coated cement blocks engineered to collapse under the weight of an aircraft's landing gear should it overshoot the end of a runway. In June, Congressman Lipinski announced that the FAA awarded a $15 million Airport Improvement Program (AIP) grant to the City to cover the first phase of the project. This work was completed late last year. "I will continue to work to protect airplane passengers, as well as those living, working, shopping, and attending school in around Midway Airport, while not impacting the surrounding community," stated Lipinski. "For the sake of the residents of northeastern Illinois and the flying public, I am committed to working with Chairman Costello and the rest of the Aviation Subcommittee, as well as with the FAA and the City of Chicago, to continue improvements at our local airports," said Lipinski. To view coverage on WGN News click here. (January 25, 2007) ###
01.23.2007	House Passes Representative Lipinski's Resolution Praising Contributions of Catholic Schools Congressional Resolution Honors Catholic Schools' Week Washington, D.C. - Today, by a vote of 428 to 0, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.Res. 51, a resolution introduced by Representative Dan Lipinski honoring the contributions of Catholic Schools. Congressman Lipinski introduced this resolution to celebrate Catholic Schools' Week, which recognizes the outstanding contributions of American Catholic schools and the strong, values-added education they provide. "Catholic schools play an essential role in educating America's youth," said Lipinski. "I understand how important Catholic schools are in providing a spiritual, moral, and intellectual foundation for students. My twelve years of Catholic education in the Chicago Archdiocese provided me with the knowledge, discipline, desire to serve, and love of learning that enabled me to become a teacher before I was elected to Congress." Started in 1974, Catholic Schools' Week celebrates the important role of Catholic schools in American education and their continued reputation for excellence in providing a strong academic and moral education as well as teaching community responsibility. During this week, dioceses and schools work to build community awareness and encourage parents to take full advantage of the benefits of Catholic education. This year's theme of Catholic Schools' Week is "Catholic Schools: The Good News in Education." "In the Chicago area, more than 106,000 young people are preparing for the future at 276 Catholic elementary and high schools. In my district alone, there are 34 grammar school and 5 high schools preparing students for a bright future. Schools in the Chicago Archdiocese have an amazing graduation rate over 99% and 95% of graduates go on to college. That is a testament to the dedicated teachers and administrators who give so much to their students." "As a complement to our public schools and private institutions, Catholic schools provide top-quality, values-added educations for millions across this country. As we recognize Catholic Schools' Week this year, we must pay special tribute to the thousands of dedicated teachers, parents, students, and countless others that continue to support and promote strong Catholic values and educational excellence." (January 23, 2007) ###
01.23.2007	Representative Lipinski Reintroduces H-Prize Legislation; Promotes U.S. Energy Independence Washington, D.C. - Today, Representatives Dan Lipinski and Bob Inglis (R-SC) reintroduced legislation in the House of Representatives to lessen U.S. dependence on foreign fossil fuels by developing hydrogen as a viable energy resource. The H-Prize Act of 2007 (H.R. 632), which passed the House overwhelmingly last year in a bipartisan vote of 416-6, establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. "A year ago in his State of the Union address, President Bush vowed to end our country's ‘addiction to oil,' yet everyday our dependence on fossil fuels, especially those from abroad, continues to increase," stated Lipinski. "This dependence is bad for our national security, it is bad for our economic security, and it accelerates emissions that put an ever-increasing strain on our environment." "We must free ourselves from this dependence and we must start now. Hope is not enough. Rhetoric is not enough. We need to take action," Lipinski continued. "Hydrogen has shown great potential to be a key part of the solution." With clean water vapor as its only emission, hydrogen holds enormous promise as a fuel, though much research and development is needed before this resource will be commercially viable. The H-Prize legislation would help overcome technical challenges related to hydrogen by offering prizes in three categories: Technological Advancements - Four prizes up to $1 million awarded biennially in the categories of hydrogen production, storage, distribution and utilization; Prototypes - One prize up to $4 million awarded biennially that forces working hydrogen vehicle prototypes to meet ambitious performance goals; and Transformational Technologies - One grand prize consisting of a $10 million cash award, funded in whole or in part by federal contribution. The goal of $40 million in additional matching funds could be awarded for development of wells-to-wheels breakthrough technologies. "An economy based on energy outside of fossil fuels is no longer implausible," said Lipinski. "Hydrogen has the potential to reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil, improve our air quality, lower climate changing greenhouse gas emissions, and maintain our economic competitiveness - the H-Prize is an innovative way to get us there." (January 23, 2007) ###
01.23.2007	A New American Energy Policy - Introduction of H-Prize Act of 2007 Washington D.C. Auto Show January 23, 2007 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Lipinski delivered a speech at the Washington D.C. Auto Show regarding the Introduction of H-Prize Act of 2007 (H.R. 632) - a new American energy policy. Congressman Lipinski (pictured above) stated, "... today, I have been joined by Representative Bob Inglis of South Carolina in reintroducing a bill to reward technological advancements in the use of hydrogen as an alternative energy source. This legislation, known as the H-Prize Act, seeks to inspire researchers, entrepreneurs, and others to find specific solutions to the major challenges facing development and commercialization of hydrogen fuel. This will be done by rewarding innovation for specific advances, and also awarding one grand prize for a special breakthrough in hydrogen energy." Click here to view the speech in its entirety. (January 23, 2007) ###
01.18.2007	Representative Lipinski Fights to Invest in Renewable Energy, Stop Giveaways to Big Oil WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Dan Lipinski voted for H.R. 6, the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007, to repeal $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for Big Oil companies in order to invest in clean renewable and alternative fuels and energy efficiency. The bill passed the House with the Democratic majority. "Over the last six years, oil and gas companies received billions of dollars in additional government subsidies despite the fact that they raked in record profits," stated Rep. Lipinski. "Last year, the big five oil companies made $97 billion while Americans faced steadily increasing gas prices. The CLEAN Energy Act not only closes loopholes and giveaways in our tax code, but it reinvests those funds into something Americans want and need: clean, renewable domestic energy." The bill would ensure that oil companies that were awarded certain 1998 and 1999 leases for drilling paid their fair share in royalties, and would close loopholes to end giveaways for Big Oil in the tax code and in the 2005 Energy bill. Further, the bill would create a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve to invest in clean, renewable energy resources and alternative fuels, promote new energy technologies, develop greater efficiency, and improve energy conservation. "Repealing extraneous tax breaks and subsidies to profit-rich oil companies and reinvesting these taxpayer funds in cutting-edge alternative energy technologies is a critical first step toward energy independence," said Rep. Lipinski. "Spurring the development of clean renewable energy and alternative fuels by investing in American ingenuity will create good-paying jobs and a more secure America." Next week, Representative Lipinski intends to reintroduce the H-Prize Act in the House of Representatives. This legislation, which passed the House overwhelmingly last year by a vote of 416-6, establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs that advance the use of hydrogen as a clean alternative energy source. Hydrogen is one of the promising renewable fuels that could receive research funding from the Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve. (January 18, 2007) ###
01.17.2007	Congressman Dan Lipinski Gains Key Transportation Subcommittee Seats Slots Oversee Aviation, Rail, and Highway Transit WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski was selected for three subcommittees of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee that are critical to the Third District and all of northeastern Illinois. Lipinski's three subcommittees are Aviation, Highways and Transit, and Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials. These subcommittees oversee transportation issues that our top priorities for Illinois, including working to decrease rail, highway, and aviation congestion, and allowing the region to continue to function as a major transportation hub while preserving the quality of life for local residents. "As a leader on local transportation issues, it is a great honor to serve on three of the most coveted subcommittees on the Transportation Committee," said Congressman Lipinski. "The Chicagoland area is a key national transportation hub for aviation, highway, and rail traffic, and this position will provide me with an even greater ability to improve both local and national transportation." Beginning in his first term, Congressman Lipinski has put a tremendous emphasis on transportation improvements for the Chicago region. He secured $126 million for local projects, including $100 million for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency program (CREATE) - a $1.5 billion public/private partnership to improve Chicago's rail infrastructure. Lipinski then led the effort to reach an unprecedented cooperative agreement among congressional and administration officials, the State of Illinois, the City of Chicago, and the railroad industry, for a three-year, $330 million Phase I of CREATE. This project includes numerous improvements to local railroad infrastructure and will benefit freight traffic, commuter rail traffic, and intercity rail passengers, along with easing local road congestion through the building of underpasses. "Whether it's continuing my leadership on the CREATE rail modernization program, working on issues critical to the continued vitality of Midway Airport and O'Hare Airport, helping improve local transit, or looking forward to the next transportation funding bill, these subcommittee seats will allow me to further pursue the interests of the Third District and northern Illinois," said Lipinski. The Aviation Subcommittee has jurisdiction over civil aviation safety, security, infrastructure, and labor, and exercises oversight over the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). The Highways and Transit subcommittee has jurisdiction over the work of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA). The Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials oversees railroad safety and economic issues, Amtrak, railroad infrastructure programs, and railroad retirement, unemployment and labor laws, as well as the Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). (January 17, 2007) ###
01.17.2007	Representative Lipinski Votes to Make College More Affordable Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to help pass H.R. 5, legislation that will make college more affordable and accessible by cutting the interest rate on subsidized undergraduate student loans in half. The bill, which was cosponsored by Representative Lipinski, will reduce the interest rate on student loans from 6.8% to 3.4% over the next five years. "As a former professor I know how critical a college education is, and I also know how expensive it has become," said Lipinski. "This bill will provide significant help in making college more affordable for millions of students." In the state of Illinois there are 128,765 four-year college students with subsidized student loans, all of whom would benefit from this bill. Once fully phased in, this would save the average four-year college student in Illinois $4,510 over the life of their loans. The bill is fully paid for by making modest reductions in certain lender and guaranty agency subsidies in order to make the student loan program more efficient and effective for students and for American taxpayers. "Making college more affordable is particularly important at a time when the costs of attending college continue to skyrocket," said Lipinski. "In the new Congress, we must do everything possible to address rising costs so that no qualified student is prevented from going to college because of the price. Our action today will make a real difference in the lives of college students in Illinois and throughout the nation." (January 17, 2007) ###
01.12.2007	Representative Dan Lipinski joined more than 255 of his colleagues in the House today to pass a bill that would require the government to negotiate for lower drug prices for Americans enrolled in the Medicare Prescription Drug Program. "All Americans are struggling with the ever-increasing costs of health care, but seniors have been especially hard hit," Lipinski said. "I have fought for this change in Medicare since I was first elected, so I'm very happy that we were able to pass this bill today that will help seniors get more affordable health care." Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of H.R. 4, the Medicare Prescription Drug Negotiation Act of 2007, which passed 255-170. Some 231 Democrats were joined by 24 Republicans to pass the legislation, which now heads to the Senate. "Medicare beneficiaries were done a disservice when the Medicare Prescription Drug bill passed with a provision that prohibited the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating prices with drug manufacturers," stated Lipinski. "Today we fixed that." "Negotiating for better prescription drug prices is a long overdue step toward making health care more affordable for Medicare beneficiaries," said Lipinski. "I am proud to have helped pass this bipartisan legislation and I look forward to continuing to work for better and more affordable health care for our seniors." (January 12, 2007) ###
01.10.2007	Congressman Lipinski Helps House Pass Long-Overdue Minimum Wage Increase Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to help pass H.R. 2, legislation that will raise the nation's minimum wage to $7.25 over the next two years. This bill, which was co-sponsored by Representative Lipinski, will provide the first minimum wage increase since 1996 and is one of the issues that the new Democratic majority has made a priority in their middle-class agenda. "The minimum wage, which has remained unchanged for nearly 10 years, is at its lowest real value in more than half a century," said Lipinski. "As a result, millions of Americans are working full time yet still living in poverty. Work needs to be rewarded. That is why I co-sponsored and helped to pass H.R. 2. This bill will benefit nearly 13 million working Americans and their families." This increase in the federal minimum wage will be implemented in three phases over a two-year period. Sixty days after the legislation is enacted, the minimum wage would increase to $5.85. One year later, the minimum wage will increase to $6.55 per hour. A year after that, the minimum wage will increase to $7.25 per hour. "Raising the minimum wage is the first step to a stronger economy for all Americans, not just for the privileged few," said Lipinski. "Our action today will make a real difference in the lives of America's working families." (January 10, 2007) ###
01.09.2007	Congressman Lipinski Helps Pass "9/11 Commission" Security Recommendations and Announces New Strategy for Iraq Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 1 which will make our nation safer by providing for the implementation of the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations. The 9/11 Commission, which was created in late 2002 to prepare a full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, also provided recommendations designed to guard against future attacks. While several of these recommendations were implemented as part of the Intelligence Reform Bill of 2004, several key provisions had been neglected until today. "Finally, Congress has taken action on the 9/11 Commission recommendations, and in doing so has taken a substantial step forward in protecting our nation from any future terrorist attacks," said Lipinski. "I am hopeful that the Senate will follow the lead of the House on this issue and work with the President to make H.R. 1 law." H.R. 1 includes a number of long-overdue steps that will substantially improve homeland security, including: Providing for better communication among first responders during emergencies; Phasing in a requirement of inspecting all passenger aircraft cargo and checked baggage (most of this cargo is still not inspected); Phasing in a requirement of scanning all U.S.-bound shipping containers; Strengthening provisions to better protect against terrorists acquiring WMD; and Reducing the appeal of extremism through the promotion of economic opportunities, education reform, human rights, and democratic processes in the countries of the Middle East. While domestic security will be greatly enhanced by making H.R. 1 law, the "dire" situation in Iraq continues to threaten to increase the risk of future attacks. It is clear that the U.S. Iraq policy must change. Congressman Lipinski today released his plan for a new strategy that rests on three key recommendations: (1) Bring the world community together to seek solutions in Iraq, including calling an international conference that will work on putting together a peacekeeping force and setting up an international reconstruction program. (2) Encourage achievement of important goals in national reconciliation, security, and governance by arranging a peace conference for Iraq's ethnic and religious factions, similar to the conference that led to the Dayton Accords. (3) Require the Administration to give Congress detailed reports on the situation in Iraq so that informed decisions can be made regarding funding Iraq's reconstruction and deciding when American forces can be redeployed. "While the situation in Iraq is ‘grave,' it could get much worse," said Lipinski. "While it is tempting to bring our troops home immediately, the strategic importance of Iraq's location, its potential as an oil-rich safe-haven for terrorists, and the real possibility of a region-wide war, require that we do all we can to stabilize the country. However, I do believe that my plan, which calls for greater international involvement as well as improved congressional oversight, offers the best chance for bringing stability to Iraq and beginning the initial redeployment of our troops this year." Congressman Lipinski's full plan for Iraq can be found on his website. (January 9, 2007) ###
01.05.2007	Washington, DC - On Thursday and Friday, the first two days of the 110th Congress, Congressman Lipinski joined a near unanimous majority to pass rules changes aimed at increasing openness and accountability in the House of Representatives. These reforms were offered by the new Democratic majority and are aimed at ending the culture of corruption that existed in 109th Congress. "After the ethics violations that plagued the previous Congress, resulting in four resignations and several more federal investigations, it was obvious that Congress needed reform," said Lipinski. "By taking up this issue of reform in the first days of the 110th Congress, Democrats are making good on our pledge to clean up the ‘people's house'." The rules changes ban all gifts from lobbyists, prohibit lobbyist-financed travel, require pre-approval by the Ethics Committee for Member travel paid by outside groups, and require ethics training for all Members and staff. Furthermore, the rules changes bring Congressional spending under control by requiring full disclosure of congressional earmarks and by preventing the House of Representatives from considering any bill that would increase the federal budget deficit. Also, on Thursday, January 4th, the 110th Congress was sworn in, marking the official beginning of Democratic control of the House of Representatives and the Senate. History was made as Nancy Pelosi was chosen to be the first female Speaker of the House, breaking what Pelosi called the "marble ceiling" for women in Congress. Congressman Lipinski, joined by his wife Judy, was sworn in by Speaker Pelosi for his second term as the representative of Illinois' Third District. "I am honored to once again be serving the people of the Third District as their Representative in the House," said Lipinski. "Third District priorities such as the environment, energy, transportation, health care, education, Social Security, Medicare, and veterans' issues will continue to be my top priorities in the 110th Congress. I look forward to being able to accomplish many great things for the people of my district and for all Americans." (January 5, 2007) ###
01.02.2007	Congressman Dan Lipinski and Alderman Mike Zalewski met with officials from the Clearing Post Office at the end of December to address recent problems with local mail delivery. Also attending the meeting were Richard Zilka, president of the Clearing Civic League, and Stanley Lihosit, president of the Archer Heights Civic Association. "Complaints about mail being delivered late in the day or sometimes delayed for many weeks have peaked at my office recently," Lipinski said. "My office is working with the new supervisor at the post office to ensure that mail is delivered in a much more timely manner." According to Zalewski, "The current level of service at the Clearing Post Office is unacceptable. I want the people of the 23rd Ward to know that we are striving to bring mail service up to par. We demand better." Lipinski, Zalewski, Lihosit, and Zilka expressed to the postal officials many of the troubles with mail delivery that local residents have been experiencing recently, including mail delivery late in the day, checks received weeks or months late, and poor customer service by local postal service employees. Some of these problems were said to have come from changes in routes instituted in the past six months and the failure of a new computerized mail sorting procedure that is being used. Also cited was a lack of steady leadership - there have been 5 regional managers in the past 5 years - but with a new Chicago Regional Manager, Gloria Tyson, there will be an opportunity for the necessary improvements to occur. "Our biggest complaints come from constituents who were mistreated at the counter. No one deserves to be treated like an inconvenience to employees at the post office," Zalewski said. "We're just looking for some common courtesy." Rep. Lipinski stated, "We had a very productive dialogue with the Clearing Post Office supervisors and we have all pledged to continue to work together to make sure these problems are solved. I will also take these issues to the new Chicago Postmaster and to the Postal Service in Washington to get the help that local residents need." (January 2, 2007) ###
12.21.2006	On Wednesday, Congressman Dan Lipinski and Alderman Mike Zalewski visited the Greater Chicago Food Depository, 4100 W. Ann Laurie Place (formerly 42nd Place) in Chicago. Congressman Lipinski and Alderman Zalewski urge everyone to remember the less-fortunate during the Holiday Season and throughout the year by aiding to your local food pantry with a donation of food, a monetary contribution, or by spending time sorting, packaging, and stocking shelves at your local food bank. "Around Christmas time we think more about those who are hungry and in need of help, but hunger does not just happen during the holidays," stated Representative Lipinski. "It is great to see the impressive operations of the Greater Chicago Food Depository which does a tremendous job all year round and is always in need of contributions and volunteers." The Greater Chicago Food Depository receives food from food companies, food drives, purchases, and America's Second Harvest-the nation's largest hunger-relief organization. From there, the Depository passes food along to its member agencies, which include six-hundred soup kitchens, shelters, and food pantries. In turn, these member agencies provide food for 88,000 individuals every week in Chicagoland. Among these 88,000 beneficiaries are the elderly, children, the working poor, single-parent families, and the newly unemployed. This past week, Jerry Mulvihill of Congressman Dan Lipinski's office organized a holiday food drive for the sixteenth consecutive year. The food drive was done in conjunction with the Southwest Senior Service Organization, and Alderman Michael R. Zalewski's Office. Baskets were delivered by a small army of volunteers on the morning of Saturday, December 16th. Over 400 food baskets each containing non-perishable food, a loaf of bread, and a frozen ham were provided to needy families throughout the Third Congressional District. Donations for the food drive were received from Acorn Corrugated Box, students and teachers at John C. Dore Elementary School, Richard Henry Lee Elementary School, Mark Twain Elementary School, and Michael M. Byrne Elementary School, and other generous individuals from the area. To help with next year's food drive, please contact Jerry Mulvihill at Congressman Lipinski's Oak Lawn Office at 708-424-0853. You can contact the Greater Chicago Food Depository at 773-247-3663. (December 21, 2006) ###
12.19.2006	REP. LIPINSKI DISCUSSES PLANS FOR NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE Recently, Congressman Dan Lipinski met with Cook County Forest Preserve District General Superintendent Steve Bylina to talk about plans for the Chicago Portage National Historic Site located in Lyons. Located north of the Stevenson Expressway just west of Harlem Avenue, the Chicago Portage is one of just two National Historic Sites in Illinois. The site was shown to explorers Father Jacques Marquette and Louis Jolliet in 1673 by Native Americans as a link from Lake Michigan to the Mississippi River and served as a vital link between the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico. Dubbed Chicago's "Plymouth Rock," nearly everyone involved in Chicago's discovery, exploration, and creation passed through the Chicago Portage. Countless cars drive past this Historic Site every day, but few stop to explore the area and see the monument dedicated to Chicago's early settlers. Possible plans for the site include enhancing conservation efforts in the area and creating a learning center for visitors. "I certainly hope that this valuable piece of Chicago history can be renovated and interest in this site renewed. I would like to see future generations of Chicagoland's families, students, and teachers come here to walk on the same ground as America's pioneers and Chicago's founders," Lipinski said. (December 19, 2006) ###
12.12.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski today secured a seat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, a powerful committee with jurisdiction over America's surface transportation, aviation, freight and passenger rail, the Coast Guard, public buildings, and various environmental issues. The Steering and Policy Committee unanimously recommended Representative Lipinski for the committee and the entire Democratic Caucus will be voting on approval in January. "As a leader on local transportation issues, it is a great honor to be appointed to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure," said Congressman Lipinski. "This position will provide me with an even greater ability to address critical transportation issues for the people of the Third District, the Chicago area, and the state of Illinois." In his first term Congressman Lipinski put a tremendous emphasis on transportation improvements for the Chicago region. Lipinski secured $126 million for local projects, including $100 million for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency program (CREATE) - a $1.5 billion public/private partnership to improve Chicago's rail infrastructure. He then led the effort to reach an unprecedented cooperative agreement among congressional and administration officials, the State of Illinois, the City of Chicago, and the railroad industry, for a three-year, $330 million Phase I of CREATE. This project includes numerous improvements to local railroad infrastructure, and will benefit freight traffic, commuter rail traffic, and intercity rail passengers, along with aiding local traffic on roads through the building of underpasses. "This appointment is especially important in facilitating my continued leadership on the CREATE rail modernization program," Lipinski stated. "And with the Aviation Bill scheduled for next year, I will be focused on issues critical to the continued vitality of Midway Airport and O'Hare Airport." With his seat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Lipinski will continue to address transportation issues throughout the district, working to decrease rail, highway, and aviation congestion and allowing the region to continue to function as a major transportation hub while preserving the quality of life for constituents. (December 12, 2006) ###
12.06.2006	Lipinski Sees Hope for Change in Failed Iraq Policy WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the Iraq Study Group released its recommendations for a new course of action in Iraq and the Middle East. The long awaited report, put together by top, former public officials, provides constructive policy suggestions that, according to the group, give the United States the greatest chance of success. Among other things, the Iraq Study Group recommends that the U.S. military's primary responsibility in Iraq should be supporting and training the Iraqi army. The report also demands progress from Iraq's government, requiring them to shoulder more of the load in solving the political, religious and ethnic conflicts that plague their country. And barring any major, unforeseen developments, the Iraq Study Group predicts that the number of U.S. forces in Iraq can be greatly reduced by 2008. "I welcome the suggestions put forward by the Iraq Study Group," said Lipinski. "A new direction has long been needed in Iraq, and I'm glad to see that the ideas put forth by the Group rise above the politics that have thus far dominated the debate on Iraq. Hopefully, our country can now come to a consensus on a course of action in Iraq that brings our troops home soon while giving our nation and the Iraqi people greater security." The release of the Study Group's report comes just a day after Robert Gates, President Bush's nomination to fill Donald Rumsfeld's post as Secretary of Defense, conceded that the United States is not winning the war in Iraq. On Tuesday, Gates received unanimous approval to be appointed Secretary of Defense from the Senate Armed Services Committee, clearing the way for a confirmation vote by the full Senate. "It is refreshing to hear Robert Gates admit that we are not winning the war in Iraq," said Lipinski. "It is absolutely essential that the Administration recognize how dire the situation in Iraq has become if our country is to formulate a successful plan for securing Iraq and redeploying our troops. I believe that the confirmation of Robert Gates as Secretary of Defense, coupled with a fresh debate of ideas sparked by the release of the study group's report, will move the President to a new policy for Iraq." (December 6, 2006) ###
11.30.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Thursday, Representative Dan Lipinski commended President Bush's statement supporting the expansion of the visa waiver program to countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The visa waiver program, which currently applies to 27 countries, allows visitors from those nations to enter the United States without a visa for up to 90 days. "I'm glad to see that President Bush has finally gotten behind this issue," said Lipinski. "The countries of Central and Eastern Europe are some of America's strongest allies, aiding us in the fight against terrorists. And they've made heroic strides in strengthening their democracies and economies. Making travel to the United States a little easier for the citizens of these nations is the least our country can do to show our appreciation." Congressman Lipinski is a leading advocate in Congress for issues relating to Central and Eastern Europe. He is a co-chair of both the Poland Caucus and the Caucus on Central and Eastern Europe. He is also a cosponsor of several pieces of legislation that would extend the visa waiver program to Poland. "Hopefully President Bush's statement gives this issue momentum going into the new Congress," said Lipinski. "I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress as well as the President on an extension of the visa waiver program to our allies in Central and Eastern Europe." (November 30, 2006) ###
11.08.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Lipinski issued the following statement in response to the announcement that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld would be stepping down. "Donald Rumsfeld's resignation provides a new opportunity for our country to reevaluate our strategies in Iraq and in the War on Terror. Hopefully, this change in leadership at the top of the line of command will create new ideas and greater policy flexibility within the Administration. As the recent election results show, the war in Iraq is a pressing issue for many Americans, demanding new ideas if our troops are to leave a stable, peaceful Iraq. This resignation, coupled with the new Democratic majorities in Congress and the pending release of the Baker Commission's report on alternative strategies in Iraq, provide new hope that our nation can develop effective solutions to the conflict in Iraq and that we can bring our troops home soon." (November 8, 2006) ###
11.04.2006	Chicago, IL, on Saturday November 4th, Congressman Lipinski joined the National Audubon Society's Great Lakes Ecosystem Restoration Conference at Brookfield Zoo. Congressman Lipinski has taken a leadership role on Great Lakes issues in the 109th Congress, including being an original co-sponsor of the Great Lakes Collaborative Implementation Act. Click here for a copy of Congressman Lipinski's speech at the conference. (November 6, 2006) ###
10.17.2006	Congressman Daniel Lipinski presented the very prestigious Distinguished Flying Cross Award and other medals to Specialist Joseph P. Stremplewski (Retired) four decades after he earned them for his heroism in the Vietnam War. Joseph Stremplewski, a resident of Chicago's Garfield Ridge neighborhood and officer with the Transportation Security Administration, earned the medal for acts of heroism on the night of December 11, 1966. Stremplewki, a crew chief of a "Firefly" team, was alerted of enemy traffic on a nearby river. His team had the task of illuminating enemy sampan supply boats so that they could be sunk by other helicopters. This was very dangerous because the light drew intense fire from the enemy. While under intense fire, Stremplewski calmly kept the light on the enemy boats, ultimately leading to the destruction of 69 of them. Stremplewski was nominated for the Distinguished Flying Cross when he was discharged. The U.S. Army did not, however, send him the medals until he contacted Congressman Dan Lipinski's office to intercede. "It gives me great pleasure to know that my office was able to help him. I'm proud to have met this man who valiantly fought for our country," said Lipinski. (October 17, 2006) ###
09.29.2006	Today, the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) announced that they are accepting grant applications to the agency's FY 2007 Museums for America (MFA) program. MFA grants strengthen a museum's ability to serve the public more effectively by supporting high-priority activities that advance the museum's mission and strategic goals. It is the largest funding program for museums at IMLS, providing more than $17 million in grants. IMLS seeks to distribute MFA grants across all types and sizes of museums, in all parts of the country. Interested applicants can participate in one of four conference calls to gain more information and ask IMLS staff questions pertaining to the MFA grant program. Smaller museums and first-time applicants are encouraged to participate in the first call which will answer general questions such as, "Is MFA right for me?" Please use the following conference number and title in order to participate: Title: National MFA Audio Conference Date: Tuesday, October 3, 2006 Start Time: 3:00 pm ET Conference telephone number: (800) 274-0251 Three additional calls have been schedule for applicants who are more familiar with the application process and have more specific questions. Participants will need the conference number and titles below to participate: Title: MFA for Midwest and Southeast Date: Tuesday, October 10, 2006 Start Time: 2:00 pm ET Conference telephone number: (800) 289-0746 (09/29/2006) ###
09.28.2006	WASHINGTON - With Congress preparing to recess until after the November elections, Congressman Dan Lipinski today joined with other members of the House Small Business Committee to challenge lawmakers for not doing more to help our nation's entrepreneurs. "Small Businesses, who make up over 99 percent of all employer firms in America, face great challenges in the new, global economy," Lipinski said. "Small businesses in my district, especially manufacturers, are facing astonishing increases in health care costs, while at the same time dealing with unfair competition from foreign trade. And Congress has done little to address either of these issues." The cost of health insurance coverage for both employers and employees has risen dramatically in recent years. These rising costs have disproportionately affected small businesses, resulting in more and more small firms dropping coverage or passing on more costs to employees. Though a number of proposals have been offered to help give small firms more choices, Congress has passed no major legislation to address the rising costs of health care. Another challenge facing American small businesses, and manufacturers in particular, is international trade. With the trade deficit reaching record levels, especially with China, Lipinski called on Congress to help level the playing field for American companies in the global market. "American manufacturing workers are feeling the job insecurity that comes from competing on an uneven playing field with foreign competitors," Lipinski said. "Our small businesses can compete with anyone in a fair game, but they cannot be expected to overcome unfair trade practices - it is up to the U.S. government to ensure that free trade is fair trade." Lipinski has fought throughout this congress for a number of bills to level the playing field, including H.R. 1498, The Chinese Currency Act of 2005, which would enable American manufacturers and workers to gain relief from the unfair Chinese practice of undervaluing their currency. (September 28, 2006) ###
09.22.2006	WASHINGTON, - Congressman Dan Lipinski, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Central and Eastern Europe, hosted a meeting on Wednesday with General Franciszek Gagor, Chief of General Staff of Polish Armed Forces. This bipartisan meeting gave members of Congress an opportunity to thank the head of the Polish military for his country's steadfast support of the United States and to discuss issues of importance to both countries. "The United States has always enjoyed strong ties with Poland. Today, 9 million people in the United States claim Polish ancestry, including over 20 percent of the constituents in my district," said Lipinski. "I was happy to host this event and have the opportunity to meet with General Gagor. Events like this will ensure that the United States and Poland continue to enjoy a warm, bilateral relationship." The United States and Poland have long had a close relationship, going all the way back to the birth of America and the aid of Pulaski and Kosciuszko in the Revolutionary War. Today Poland is playing an active role in aiding U.S. military efforts overseas. In 1999, Poland formally joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Currently 1,000 Polish troops are deployed in Iraq. When a recent call went out to NATO nations asking for more troops to be sent to Afghanistan, Poland was the first nation to respond, pledging 900 additional troops to that country. "Poland has bravely fought alongside American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, helping to ease some of the great burden on our armed forces" said Lipinski. "It was important for me and other members of Congress to meet with General Gagor in order to express our gratitude for his country's sacrifices. The meeting also allowed both sides to express a desire for continued cooperation between our countries." (September 22, 2006) ###
09.21.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski today attended a U.S. House Committee on Science hearing addressing emerging needs in the growing field of nanotechnology, which is the research and development of very small particles. "Nanotechnology is one of the most promising technologies of our time and could revolutionize industries ranging from transportation to medicine, as well as have a huge impact on improving our national security," stated Congressman Lipinski. "Furthermore, Illinois is a leader among the states in research and development of this emerging technology." In Illinois, Northwestern University houses the Center for Nanofabrication and Molecular Self-Assembly, one of the first federally funded centers of its kind. It has helped develop collaboration between researchers and entrepreneurs on this cutting edge technology, creating jobs and the potential for entirely new industries. In these times of increasing economic competitiveness, this new technology is even more critical. During the hearing, the witnesses specifically discussed the lack of guidelines and regulations needed to insure the environmental, health and safety of products resulting from nanotechnology. Without these guidelines, entrepreneurs and businesses will be less inclined to invest in nanotechnology breakthroughs. "There is so much potential for our economy with nanotechnology that we must find a comprehensive way to resolve these issues," added Lipinski. "Our economic future may depend on it." (September 21, 2006
09.20.2006	Lipinski Votes To Ensure that All U.S. Citizens Have the Opportunity To Vote Lipinski Statement on H.R. 4844, the "Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006" Today, Congressman Daniel Lipinski gave the following statement after voting against H.R. 4844, the "Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006." This legislation imposes new ID requirements on all voters in federal elections. Starting in 2008, voters would have to present a government-issued photo ID in order to vote or register to vote. In 2010, voters would have to show proof of U.S. citizenship. Those voters who are voting by mail would have to send in a photocopy of their proof of citizenship. "I strongly believe that we must maintain the integrity of the United States electoral process. Under current laws, falsely claiming citizenship and voter fraud are already federal offences. In addition, non-citizens who try to vote are automatically given a one-way ticket out of the country, with no criminal conviction necessary. "H.R. 4844, the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006, deceptively promises to improve our voting laws. Unfortunately, this bill would only have the practical effect of penalizing U.S. citizens who want to exercise their right to vote, and would have a particularly devastating impact on seniors. Because of the negative impact that this legislation would have on seniors, groups such as AARP opposed H.R. 4844. "Study after study shows that imposing a photo ID requirement would have a disproportionate impact on the elderly. Many seniors no longer drive and therefore no longer have licenses. Without a photo ID such as a license, these seniors would be ineligible to vote in 2008. Furthermore, according to the State Department, only 25-27% of eligible Americans have passports - the only government issued photo ID that currently proves citizenship. That means 75 percent of eligible Americans, many of them seniors on fixed incomes, would need to pay $97 to obtain a passport in order to vote. I believe that it is important to both ensure that only citizens are able to vote and that voters are who they claim to be. Congress and the states are already working on this important task. Unfortunately, H.R. 4844 would put the burden of proving citizenship - including the financial burden - on eligible voters. By forcing citizens to either buy a passport or another form of identification that is not easily available, voting will become unaffordable and difficult for many citizens. Citizens should not have to pay to vote, especially our seniors." (September 20, 2006) ###
09.20.2006	Lipinski Joins in Introducing Legislation Designed to Ease Burdens on Pregnant Women and Lower the Number Seeking Abortions WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Dan Lipinski today joined colleagues in announcing the introduction of legislation aimed at reducing the number of abortions in America by providing more support for pregnant women and new mothers and their babies. The Pregnant Women Support Act combines a package of 14 policy changes including more options for health care, renewed support for adoption, and programs to counsel and support women throughout their pregnancy. "Abortion is a highly contentious issue, but everyone can agree on the desire to reduce the number women seeking abortions in America," Lipinski stated at a Capitol Hill event to announce the new legislation. "This bill takes a big-picture approach to the issue, with an emphasis on providing pregnant women with support and assistance in carrying their child to term." The bill would expand coverage to pregnant women and unborn children through Medicaid and the state Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), and by making sure that insurance companies do not deny health care coverage to pregnant women. Other provisions would increase funding for domestic violence programs, make adoption tax credits permanent and provide counseling for pregnant women and childcare on university campuses. "The Pregnant Women Support Act reflects a serious effort to find common ground among lawmakers in order to help women and reduce the number of abortions," Lipinski said. "I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation and I urge my colleagues to support it." (September 20, 2006) ###
09.18.2006	Historic Rail Project Will Ease Traffic Congestion, Create Jobs, Improve Air Quality, and Maintain Region's Leadership in Rail Transport WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congress Lipinski, joined by government, business, and labor leaders, announced a new $330 million funding agreement for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency (CREATE) rail improvement program. Through the unprecedented cooperative effort led by Congressman Lipinski, congressional and federal officials, the State of Illinois, the City of Chicago, and the railroad industry have reached a consensus to move forward with $330 million in rail improvements in northeastern Illinois over the next three years. The CREATE program is a public-private partnership that will alleviate congestion on regional rail lines and enhance the efficiency of our transportation infrastructure. CREATE includes numerous improvements to both the local railroad infrastructure and the highway system, and it would benefit freight traffic, commuter traffic, intercity rail passengers, and local road traffic. "I am very happy to bring everyone together to advance this crucial program which will provide substantial benefits to Chicago-area residents and the entire nation," said Lipinski. "Moving our rail infrastructure into the 21st century will help us locally with more jobs, less congestion on roads, and better passenger rail service, and will benefit the national economy with a more efficient movement of freight." The new three year, $330 million funding agreement includes the $100 million Congressman Lipinski secured in federal funding, $100 million from the railroads, $100 from the State of Illinois, and $30 million from the City of Chicago. Chicago is the nation's transportation hub with one third of all cargo passing through. Over the next 20 years the demand for freight rail service is expected to nearly double, and without the improvements provided by CREATE, the region could lose out on 17,000 jobs and $2 billion in annual economic production. Besides rail improvements, CREATE includes new overpasses or underpasses where roads cross railroad tracks. This will reduce congestion on roadways, reduce grade crossing accidents, and also help reduce air pollution. "The CREATE program is truly an ambitious plan. It treads new ground, and breaks into new territory in national transportation policy," explained Lipinski. "We have come a long way and as this agreement shows, we are continuing to move forward. It is crucial for the region, but just as importantly, it is vital to the nation." Click here for Congressman Lipinski's statement from today's event: lipinski_create_statement_2 Local news coverage: Railroad safety in Chicago area could be improved. Railroad crossings in the Chicago area are about to become safer and much more efficient. It's the first step in a $1.5 billion plan to improve the rail system throughout Illinois. http://abclocal.go.com/wls/story?section=local&id=4575094 (September 18, 2006) ###
09.15.2006	Lipinski Joins "Next Generation" to Fight for American Manufacturing WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Dan Lipinski joined a group of young leaders in manufacturing to discuss ways to strengthen American manufacturing and grow American jobs. Lipinski, a member of the House Manufacturing Caucus, spoke at a gathering of the Precision Metalforming Association's "Next Generation of Manufacturers" group. He urged members of Congress and the President to support legislation to give American manufacturers the tools they need to succeed in the global market. "We have to get the message out," Lipinski said, "America needs to support manufacturing and keep these good-paying, strategically important jobs in this country. With a level playing field, American manufacturers can outperform anyone in the world. But we have not taken the steps we need to maintain this level field. " Lipinski called on Congress to address unfair trade practices, such as China's currency manipulation which acts both as a subsidy for Chinese exports to the United States and as a hidden duty on U.S. products that would be imported into China. Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of H.R. 1498, The Chinese Currency Act of 2005, which would enable American manufacturers and workers to gain relief from this practice. Lipinski also discussed the need to act now to make health care more affordable, especially for small businesses. Lipinski stated that the problems of American manufacturers are not getting the recognition they deserve. "The Bush Administration simply does not seem to be concerned about the loss of American manufacturing jobs," he said. Congressman Lipinski emphasized the importance of manufacturing to our economy, both in terms of jobs, and maintaining a strong industrial base. "These jobs are not simply replaceable by service-sector jobs - and once lost, they are not coming back." Carl "Chip" Michaelsen, one of the lead speakers at the event, and President and CEO of ODM Tool & Manufacturing Company in McCook, asked members of Congress to work with the next generation of leaders to save manufacturing. "Our families have for generations poured our hearts and souls into our businesses," he said. "We provide good jobs at good wages for millions of American workers, and our impact on the American economy deserves greater recognition here in Washington." (September 15, 2006) ###
09.14.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - At a hearing today of the U.S. House Science Committee, Congressman Dan Lipinski heard testimony from Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials and other security experts on technology options for improving the security of U.S. borders. "Securing our borders is critical for national security. Technology is a vital component in our toolbox for protecting our borders, and we need to be doing more research, development, and deployment of technology for border security," stated Congressman Lipinski. Currently, the DHS Border Patrol is charged with securing roughly 7,500 miles of U.S. border, much of it in remote and rugged terrain, with a limited number of border patrol agents on the ground. Current research is working to create a virtual fence using sensors and imaging techniques linked in an information network, which would provide the relatively small number of agents in the field with a tool to locate and track intruders. But systems and protective methods are not currently linked together. In fact, surveillance cameras currently cover only about 5% of the border and are not linked to the sensors, often resulting in inaccurate and inconclusive data. "What I heard today is that securing our borders is possible," said Lipinski. "But I was also told that it is going to take a large and sustained investment to get the job done. We need to be committed to dedicating the resources to protect our borders and our citizens. That is a critical responsibility of our government." (September 14, 2006) ###
09.11.2006	Today marks the fifth anniversary of the attacks of September 11th. As we look back on that day in which 3,000 lives were lost, our thoughts and prayers go out to the families and loved ones that were left behind. Rest assured, those killed on that fateful day will never be forgotten. We also remember the heroic actions of the police, firefighters, rescue workers and ordinary people who ignored their own safety in order to save the lives of others. Many of these rescuers made the ultimate sacrifice that day, and we honor their memory today. Finally, we cannot ignore the enormous sacrifices made since September 11th, 2001, in order to keep us and our country safe. Thousands of men and women have dedicated their time and energy towards strengthening our nation's security and preventing another terrorist attack on American soil. To them we owe a debt of gratitude and thanks. As we look forward, our nation must remain vigilant in combating terrorism. We must remain resolute in protecting our way of life, our ideals and our freedoms, and remain determined in facing down the threat of terrorism wherever it may arise. (September 11, 2006) ###
09.07.2006	Lipinski Votes to Pass Bill Protecting Horses from Inhumane Slaughter On Thursday September 7, 2006, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 503, which would prevent the slaughter of horses for human consumption overseas. The vote on the Horse Protection Act was 263 to 146. Lipinski said, "Many of my constituents contacted me to express their support for this legislation, and I am pleased to be able to represent their views here in Washington. I also opposed several amendments that would have effectively killed the legislation. I supported H.R. 503 and will continue to encourage efforts to preserve the wellbeing of horses and other animals." (September 7, 2006) ###
08.24.2006	Durbin, Lipinski Say President's Executive Order Did Not Go Far Enough [Chicago, IL] - U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and U.S. Representative Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) today said President Bush's Executive Order requiring the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and three other agencies to disclose to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries the cost of medical procedures "did not go far enough." Durbin and Lipinski urged HHS Secretary Michael Leavitt "to exercise the option President Bush has given you and publish these prices in a manner easily accessible to all Americans." In a letter to Secretary Leavitt, Durbin and Lipinski wrote: "It is the 46 million Americans without health insurance who most need this information. Not only are uninsured Americans often paying out-of-pocket for their care, they are paying rates far higher than insured Americans because they do not have access to the reduced rates negotiated by insurance companies." Durbin and Lipinski noted that the Executive Order failed to address another important issue: the price Medicare is paying for prescription drugs. "Given the investment the federal government is now making in prescription drugs, it is imperative that we receive the best possible price. Without knowing the actual prices that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is paying for pharmaceuticals in Medicare and Medicaid, it is impossible to compare," they wrote. Lipinski and Durbin are the chief sponsors of bipartisan legislation requiring hospitals to report the prices of the 25 most frequently performed in-patient and out-patient procedures and the 50 most commonly prescribed drugs. The Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act will provide uninsured Americans with information to protect them against price gouging. Click here for the Letter_to_Secretary Leavitt (August 24, 2006) ###
08.23.2006	President Follows Lipinski's Lead in Calling For Hospital Price Transparency Lipinski's legislation will better inform and empower consumers making health care decisions WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, the leader in Congress on hospital price transparency, called the Bush Administration's executive order requiring several federal agencies and departments to disclose hospital payment information "a critical part of any long-term solution to address health care access and affordability." "I am thrilled to see provisions similar to my legislation are being implemented by the Administration to help empower heath care consumers with information," said Congressman Lipinski. "By being able to compare different health care facilities, Americans will have more control over and greater confidence in their health care decisions." Last year Congressman Lipinski introduced H.R. 3139, the Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act, which would require hospitals to give consumers clear, concise information about what they charge for common procedures and medications. In March, Congressman Lipinski testified before the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health about his hospital price transparency legislation. "As working families are spending more of their own money on health care services, they have a right to know how much different health care facilities charge," Lipinski said. "Health care decisions are just too important to be left to chance. Would anyone suggest that consumers make better purchasing decisions without price or performance comparisons? Of course not. When consumers start comparing health care facilities on costs, the facilities will respond accordingly, driving costs down and quality up." "We all want more information available when making health care decisions and this executive order is a clear step in the right direction," continued Lipinski. "Now it is time for Congress to act by passing the common-sense, bipartisan Hospital Price Disclosure Act, which would make health care price information for inpatient and outpatient procedures, as well as commonly administered medications, available to consumers on the Internet." (August 23, 2006) ###
08.02.2006	Lipinski Outraged at Oil Company Profits Americans Are Suffering From Record High Gas Prices As Oil Companies Celebrate Record Profits WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski expressed his deep concern today at the news that ExxonMobil posted a record profit of over $10 billion at the same time that consumers across Illinois and the rest of the country are suffering from excessively high gas prices. He urged Congress to allow swift passage of legislation that would effectively halt price gouging by oil companies. "While ExxonMobil celebrates a $10 billion profit bonanza, middle class Americans are desperate to find the cash to keep their families fed and cool this summer," said Lipinski. "With average gas prices in Chicago over $3.25 per gallon, we must take action to lower or at least stabilize prices in the short term and develop energy alternatives to oil in the long term." Congressman Lipinski has worked in Congress to promote a comprehensive energy policy that increases use of renewable energy, such as ethanol and wind, while encouraging increased efficiency and conservation of traditional energy sources, with an emphasis on ending our dependency on oil from insecure and undemocratic nations. He is the chief Democratic co-sponsor of the H-Prize Act of 2006 (H.R. 5143) that would create prizes for the development and advancement of hydrogen technology. Hydrogen holds great promise for meeting our future energy needs and this legislation will help inspire the transformational technology needed to make hydrogen a reliable energy source. The H-Prize Act passed the House by a vote of 416 to 6 and is currently being considered in the Senate. Lipinski is also a co-sponsor of legislation that would provide incentives to develop other clean alternative energy sources, such as ethanol and solar power. "These bills provide part of the solution to America's energy crisis. They deserve a full debate and passage by Congress, so that we can begin to help American consumers and businesses burdened by high energy prices." (August 2, 2006) ###
07.27.2006	Lipinski Introduces Bill to Give Families More Cable TV Options Legislation Empowers Parents to Protect Children From Indecent Programming WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Thursday, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL), joined by Congressman Tom Osborne (R-NE), announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation to empower consumers in choosing television services for their homes. H.R. 5919, The Family Choice Act of 2006 is designed to help parents deal with the increasingly troublesome problem of protecting their children from indecent programming on television. "In today's culture, our young children are faced with a barrage of inappropriate images and messages coming into their homes," Lipinski said. "We need to help parents by giving them meaningful ways to protect their children from indecent programming, and this bill will do that." Currently, consumers face limited choices and are forced to pay for many channels they would rather not expose their children to. For example, in order to subscribe to popular educational, news, and sports channels beyond the most basic channel lineup, they have no choice but to also pay for receiving channels such as MTV or Spike TV. Polls show that the public is very concerned about the indecent content on television, and overwhelmingly supports increased choices in programming. A late 2005 AP/Ipsos Poll showed that 66% of Americans say there is too much sex on TV, and 68% say there is too much violence. More than three out of four prefer having an a la carte subscription option. The Family Choice Act of 2006 would empower parents to protect children from indecent programming on television by requiring any multichannel video programming distributor (cable or satellite provider) to do one of the following: Apply broadcast indecency standards to their programming between 6 am and 10 pm; Offer an opt-out a la carte programming option, such that any channel a subscriber does not want to receive (with some exceptions) will be blocked, and the subscriber will be provided with a credit on their bill for the channels they block; or Allow subscribers to choose a family tier of programming; a family tier is defined to include all the channels in the Expanded Basic Tier, except those that have programming unsuitable for children between 6am and 10pm (programs rated TV-Mature or TV-14), unless that programming is a news program or live sporting event. "It is clear that parents want help," said Lipinski. "They need new options and they need meaningful choices. This legislation will empower parents by giving them real choices for family-friendly programming. And it does so without imposing a single, one-size-fits-all mandate on providers. It is a common-sense solution." Congressman Lipinski was joined at the press conference by Rep. Tom Osborne (R-NE) who is a cosponsor of the bill, and by representatives of three groups who spoke in support of the legislation - Brent Bozell, President of the Parents Television Council, Lanier Swann, Director of Government Relations at Concerned Women for America, and Jeannine Kenney, Senior Policy Analyst for the Consumers Union. (July 27, 2006) ###
07.20.2006	LIPINSKI URGES FAIR TRADE POLICY TO PROTECT JOBS AND NATIONAL DEFENSE Opposes Oman Free Trade Agreement Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voted against the Oman Free Trade Agreement (OFTA) which weakens labor standards, gives incentives for outsourcing, and includes loopholes that could compromise U.S. port security. Despite strong opposition, the House of Representatives approved the agreement by a narrow vote of 221 to 205. The US-Oman FTA would implement a free trade agreement between Oman and the United States, which would require market liberalization for most U.S. goods and services. Additionally under OFTA, the United States would be required to allow Omani companies the right to bid on landside port activities in the U.S. "This bill not only provides incentives to ship American jobs overseas but also jeopardizes the security of this country," said Lipinski. "I strongly oppose any legislation that compromises the safety and security of this nation and continues to promote policies that take good paying jobs from Americans." The US-Oman Free Trade Agreement would create a new right under international trade law that would require the United States to allow any Omani company access to bid on port operations in the United States. "America cannot afford to be offered up to the highest bidder," continued Lipinski. "American jobs and American national security are not commodities and I oppose any efforts that would undermine job security or compromise the defense of our nation." Further addressing critical trade issues today, Congressman Lipinski participated in a Small Business Committee hearing focusing on China's unfair trade practices, including China's practice of manipulating its currency. Lipinski pointed out that currency manipulation makes U.S. goods more expensive and costs Americans their jobs. "We must stand up for American workers," he said, "and demand that they be allowed to compete on a level playing field. Given a level playing field, Americans can compete against anyone in the world." Lipinski is a sponsor of HR 1498, which would apply U.S. countervailing laws to countries that manipulate their currencies. "Undoubtedly, trade is a critical component of our national economy and I am a strong proponent of fair trade laws," stated Lipinski. "We must continue to protect American jobs, strengthen our national security, promote fair labor standards, and to encourage stronger economic growth." (July 20, 2006) ###
07.18.2006	Current Information on Situation in Lebanon Washington, D.C. - On July 12th, the militant group Hezbollah, which operates in southern Lebanon, kidnapped two Israeli soldiers. In an attempt to pressure Hezbollah into releasing the kidnapped soldiers, Israel has launched several air strikes into Lebanon. As this situation continues to escalate, the U.S. State Department is working to evacuate Americans from Lebanon. The U.S. Embassy encourages Americans in Lebanon or with loved ones in Lebanon who have not yet registered to phone the Department of State at 202-501-4444 from overseas, or at 1-888-407-4747 if calling from the U.S. and Canada. Those who wish to leave should ready themselves immediately. They should prepare important travel documents such as a valid U.S. passport, birth certificates, and other civil documents such as marriage. Each traveler will each be allowed one suitcase only-not to exceed 15 kilos (30 pounds). Pets will not be allowed to travel. In order to ensure a safe and orderly departure, the U.S. Embassy is asking Americans not to move until they are contacted by Embassy personnel or by an American Embassy warden. All Americans who wish to travel will be transported, although not everyone will travel at the same time. You may also wish to visit the U.S. Embassy's website at http://lebanon.usembassy.gov/ and the Department of State's website at http://www.lipinski.house.gov/administrator/www.state.gov to get the latest updates on the situation. For Q&A's on evacuation of American citizens from Lebanon. (July 18, 2006) ###
07.18.2006	Lipinski Opposes Government Recognition of Gay Marriages, Opposes Political Ploy WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski voted "present" on H.J.Res. 88, an amendment to the Constitution that would prohibit government recognition of same sex marriages, which failed by a voted of 236-187-1. A two-thirds vote is required for passage of a constitutional amendment. Last month the Senate had already voted to kill the amendment, thus virtually ending any chance that it would be adopted by Congress this year. "This amendment was brought to the floor as a political ploy so that the Republican party could send a campaign message for the upcoming election," said Lipinski. "My vote 'present' was my own message - while I have always opposed government recognition of gay marriages and continue to do so, I believe that since the Senate already had disposed of this amendment last month we should be spending our time on the House floor debating, voting on, and passing legislation we can get enacted this year to help American families. Time on the legislative calendar is limited, and we need to be working on legislation that will help solve our energy crisis, improve health care affordability for our families, provide a better Medicare prescription drug program, strengthen Social Security and Medicare, expand educational opportunities for our children, and protect our nation. We do need to defend the values that make America strong. But American families need action, not just political messages." (July 18, 2006) ###
07.17.2006	TOWN HALL MEETING with Congressman DAN LIPINSKI "I'm happy to return to my Alma Mater St. Sym's, and speak with the neighbors that I grew up with," said Lipinski. Congressman Lipinski will be there to answer the questions of the day. Open Community Meeting ~ Saturday ~ July 22, 2006 Meeting Starts at 10:00 a.m. St. Symphorosa School (A) Hall 6135 S. Austin Ave., Chicago, IL Congressional Staff will be available at 9:00 a.m. to assist you with Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans’ Benefits, Immigration, Postal and other Federal Issues. For more information contact (312) 886-0481 (July 17, 2006) ###
07.12.2006	Lipinski Calls On Congress to Fix Medicare Prescription Drug Program GAO Report Finds that Even Medicare Providers Cannot Explain Plans [WASHINGTON, DC] Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, called on Congress and the Administration to help seniors by fixing the Medicare prescription drug program. Lipinski cited a new General Accounting Office (GAO) report that found that call centers run by private Medicare drug providers give inaccurate and incomplete information much of the time. "It is absolutely inexcusable that providers seem to be incapable or unwilling to provide beneficiaries with good information," said Rep. Lipinski. "Our seniors should not be treated like this. Medicare must guarantee that these providers give accurate and complete information. The GAO found that in most instances, drug plan providers were unable to give accurate information in response to simple questions about plan costs, low-income coverage, plan formulary procedures, and plan utilization management techniques. Specifically, the GAO found: The phone centers operated by private Medicare providers gave inaccurate or incomplete answers to two-thirds of the beneficiaries who called. Two Medicare plan providers gave bad information at least 75% of the time. Medicare drug plan providers were unable to provide critical cost information for seniors to choose among plans. Two GAO questions focused on which of the drug plans would provide seniors with the lowest out-of-pocket costs, and what these costs would be. Medicare providers failed to give accurate or complete answers to these questions over 70% of the time. In one case, the costs were underestimated by $6,000. Medicare providers often furnished conflicting answers, giving one answer on one call and a different answer on a second call. For example, some plans said that one of their plans was the least expensive on one call and then said that a completely different plan was the least expensive on a separate call. This is the second GAO report analyzing the drug plan information available to Medicare beneficiaries. In May 2006, the GAO analyzed the information provided to seniors by the federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, concluding that this information was frequently confusing, inaccurate, or incomplete. The new GAO findings show that the private plans are also failing to answer seniors' questions, leaving millions of seniors unable to get accurate answers to their questions about the Medicare drug plans. "These findings also demonstrate another problem," continued Lipinski. "If Medicare providers do not yet understand these plans, how can we expect seniors to understand them? Congress must act to give seniors more time to sign up for a drug plan without suffering the life-long penalty that is now being imposed. Seniors should also be given the option of changing plans immediately if their current plan is not working for them." (July 12, 2006) ###
07.06.2006	Lipinski Introduces Legislation to End Sewage Dumping in Great Lakes Great Lakes Water Protection Act quadruples penalties and creates Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund CHICAGO - To help ensure continued safe usage of our Great Lakes, Congressman Dan Lipinski introduced The Great Lakes Water Protection Act (H.R. 5734) late last week with Congressman Mark Kirk. This bipartisan legislation would establish a federal deadline to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes and impose large fines on localities that violate the Act. These penalties would be paid into each state's Clean Water Revolving Fund which promotes the construction of sewer infrastructure to protect the Great Lakes. "Since I was a kid I have always enjoyed the beaches and lakefront parks on Lake Michigan. As a society, though, we have taken the Great Lakes for granted, assuming they will always be here for us to use and to enjoy," said Lipinski. "In reality, it is becoming more difficult to utilize the lakes because of pollution. In Illinois alone, there were almost 800 beach closings in 2004 due to dangerous contamination, more than twice the number in 2003. Families who have enjoyed swimming in Lake Michigan for generations are now kept away because of fears of becoming sick - this is an unacceptable situation." The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago dramatically improved their sewer infrastructure to prevent the dumping of partially-treated raw sewage into Lake Michigan by building the Deep Tunnel. However, other cities along Lake Michigan have been slow to upgrade their sewer infrastructure and continue to pollute the lake. H.R. 5734 gives cities until 2026 to build the full infrastructure needed to prevent sewage dumping into the Great Lakes. Those who violate EPA sewage dumping regulations after the federal deadline will be fined $100,000 for every day they are in violation. Lipinski believes it is time for Great Lakes cities to be held responsible for the health of the lake system. (July 6, 2006) ###
06.29.2006	Congressman Lipinski Prevails in Defeating Amendment Prohibiting Inclusion of Poland In Visa Waiver Program WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, co-chair of both the Congressional Caucus on Poland and the Congressional Caucus on Central and Eastern Europe, helped defeat an amendment to the FY 07 Science-State-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill that would have prohibited the inclusion of additional countries in the visa waiver program, including Poland. "Security and concerns with protecting our country need to be foremost, but part of security is also strengthening ties with our allies," Lipinski stated during debate on the amendment on the House Floor. "Poland is one of America's closest allies and has continually shown a commitment to the US-led reconstruction of Iraq and the global war on terrorism. It's imperative that we continue to strengthen our already close relationship." "Poland is one of America's closest allies and has continually shown a commitment to the US-led reconstruction of Iraq and the global war on terrorism. It's imperative that we continue to strengthen our already close relationship." Recently, Congressman Lipinski joined Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Anna Fotyga and the Polish Ambassador to the United States, Janusz Reiter to discuss the importance of relations between the United States and Poland, and the benefits of adding Poland to the list of 27 designated countries in the Visa Waiver program. "Including Poland in the U.S. Visa Waiver Program would not only benefit Polish citizens wanting to visit the United States, but would also make it easier for millions of Polish-American citizens to see their families and friends," Lipinski said. "We know that our borders will be no less secure because of these Polish visitors to our country, but we do know that our alliance will be more secure by allowing Poland to participate in this program." (June 29, 2006) ###
06.28.2006	House Passes Lipinski Amendment to Help Communities Pay Tribute to Fallen Law Enforcement Officers WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the FY07 Science-State-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill, including an amendment offered on the Floor by Rep. Dan Lipinski to restore funds for the Law Enforcement Tribute Act Program. The Law Enforcement Tribute Act provides one-time grants to help local and state governments complete permanent tributes that honor the men and women of law enforcement and public safety who have been killed or disabled in the line of duty. "There are currently 17,535 names engraved on the walls of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, including 72 killed on 9-11. So many heroes who have given their lives to protect our families," Lipinski stated. "Many communities also want to honor their local law enforcement heroes with memorials or other permanent tributes. This program provides support to states and localities to help them do this." Congress authorized the Law Enforcement Tribute Act through 2009 for $3 million per year, but it has not been appropriated any funding in the past four years. Congressman Lipinski's amendment restores funds to the Fiscal Year 2003 level of $500,000. The amendment, which was endorsed by both the Fraternal Order of Police and the National Association of Police Organizations, was passed on the House Floor Wednesday night. Lipinski concluded floor debate by saying, "Law Enforcement and public safety officers dedicate their careers and their lives to protecting us; tributes provide us with a constant reminder of the sacrifices they make. The least we can do is help local communities honor these brave heroes." (June 28, 2006) ###
06.27.2006	25th Annual Congressional Art Competition Congressman Lipinski is pleased to announce that Rebecca Pytko from Bridgeview, Illinois has won the 25th Annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Her winning entry, "The Bug City" is currently on display at the United States Capitol Building. Each year members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. As a former educator, Congressman Lipinski recognizes that young people hold enormous creative potential. This event gives high school students a national platform to display their inventiveness and Congressman Lipinski is honored to be able to participate in the competition. Rebecca and the Congressman are pictured above. (June 27, 2006) ###
06.26.2006	The Great Lakes Water Protection Act of 2006 Statement of Representative Daniel Lipinski (IL-3) June 26, 2006 Good morning, I am pleased to be here with Congressman Kirk, Mr. Lanyon, Mr. Davis, and Mr. O'Sullivan to talk about one of the most important issues for Illinois and all of America - preserving the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world and hold 90% of the fresh water in the United States. In Illinois and the seven other surrounding states, we depend upon the Great Lakes for everything from fresh drinking water to recreation, tourism, and the $4.1 billion fishing industry. The Great Lakes are critical to our lives and our economy - we cannot sit idly by and watch this precious resource be destroyed by the dumping of raw sewage. For me personally, the Great Lakes have always been an important part of my life. Growing up, I remember summers spent on the beaches of Lake Michigan and riding my bike along the lakefront. When I went to Northwestern for college, being near the lake was a great attraction for me. But as a society, we have taken the Great Lakes for granted, assuming they will always be here for us to use and to enjoy. In reality, though, contamination from sewage dumping is threatening our lakes. Older water infrastructure systems are overwhelmed during heavy rain storms, and untreated, raw sewage often pours into the Great Lakes and surrounding waterways. This sewage, which contains harmful bacteria like E. coli, contaminates drinking water and causes health problems resulting in beach closures. Annually, the EPA estimates that between 1.8 and 3.5 million people in the U.S. get sick from water polluted by sewage. More than 1,800 beaches on the Great Lakes experienced advisories or closings in 2003 - up 32 percent from 2002! In Illinois alone, we had almost 800 beach closings along Lake Michigan in 2004, more than five times the number of closings in 2001. While some of this increase is due to improved monitoring, we must do more to ensure that our beaches are safe. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act will help us greatly improve the quality of our water and safety of our beaches by ending the dumping of raw sewage by 2026. By greatly increasing the fines for cities that release untreated sewage into the Great Lakes - up to $100,000 per day per violation - we will make the water cleaner. This legislation will also help us repair past damage by reinvesting the funds back into the states where the violations occurred. This money will help improve habitat quality, clean up beaches, and insure a healthier environment for both humans and wildlife. In the Chicago area, we have already made great strides in decreasing the amount of sewage that is released. I would like to thank the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District and the City of Chicago for their work over the last quarter century in addressing this problem, specifically with the Deep Tunnel project. In May, I was at the grand opening of the final part of the Deep Tunnel, a 30 year, 3 billion dollar project. The Deep Tunnel has reinvigorated our waterways by preventing the dumping of untreated sewage during heavy rainstorms, in addition to keeping the water out of so many basements in the area. The results have been dramatic. Wildlife has returned to our waters, property values have increased, and tourism and recreation have improved. Families can now safely enjoy these waters. The City of Chicago and MWRD have worked hard to protect this vital resource. The Great Lakes Water Protection Act will help ensure that other communities in the region are meeting similar standards, and will make the Great Lakes region an even better place to live and work. (June 26, 2006) ###
06.26.2006	Lipinski and Kirk Introduce Legislation to End Sewage Dumping in Lake Michigan Closed Illinois Lake Shore Beach Days Rise from 391 in 2003 to 790 in 2004 Great Lakes Water Protection Act quadruples civil penalties on cities that illegally dump - New law to create Great Lakes Clean-Up Fund to upgrade sewer infrastructure CHICAGO, IL - With another summer of beach closings looming, U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (D-Chicago) and Mark Kirk (R-Highland Park) unveiled the bipartisan Great Lakes Water Protection Act establishing a federal deadline to end sewage dumping in the Great Lakes. The legislation imposes fines on persons who violate the Act to be paid into each state's Clean Water Revolving Fund. The fund promotes the construction of sewer infrastructure to protect the Great Lakes. "We drink from this source and our children swim along the shores of Lake Michigan. We must put a stop to the poisoning of our water supply," Congressman Kirk said. "More than 27 million Americans depend on the Great Lakes for their drinking water. Cities along the Great Lakes must become environmental stewards of our country's most precious freshwater ecosystem. As the shores of our Great Lakes become more densely populated, I am pleased to join with Congressman Lipinski to introduce bipartisan legislation to set a date certain to end sewage dumping in America's largest supply of fresh water.""As a society, we have taken the Great Lakes for granted, assuming they will always be here for us to use and to enjoy. In reality, though, it is becoming more difficult to utilize the water because of contamination in the lakes," Lipinski said.Chicago dramatically improved their sewer infrastructure to prevent the dumping of partially-treated raw sewage into Lake Michigan by building the Deep Tunnel. However, other cities along Lake Michigan have been slow to upgrade their sewer infrastructure and continue to pollute the lake. On March 13, the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District dumped 3.27 million gallons of partially-treated raw sewage after heavy rains. Two weeks later, Milwaukee accidentally discharged another 800,000 gallons of waste when testing new computer controls for an underground channel that conveys sewage through their plant. The heavy rainfall in March prompted Milwaukee to ask residents to cut back on their water use to prevent the sewage district from dumping in Lake Michigan. These actions follow the dumping of 1.5 billion gallons of sewage into Lake Michigan in May 2004. Although there was no direct correlation between Milwaukee's sewage dumping and the closing of Chicago-area beaches in 2004, Cook County beach closings nearly tripled from 213 in 2003 to 613 in 2004. Congressman Kirk is particularly concerned over the 150 beach day closings in his congressional district in 2004, the latest year tracked.According to the Natural Resources Defense Council, Waukegan suffered 38 daily closings, Winnetka 36, Wilmette 22, Highland Park 21, Great Lakes 15 Lake Forest 12 and Lake Bluff 6. All closings were bacteria related with no proven source determined. The total number of Illinois Lake Michigan beach days affected by closings rose from 391 in 2003 to 790 in 2004. "The number of beach closings in my district in 2004 far outnumbered the days of summer swimming," Kirk said. "This trend must be reversed and this legislation is a step in the right direction."Milwaukee's record of lake dumping is not alone. East Chicago, Gary, Michigan City, Benton Harbor, South Haven, Holland, and Grand Haven also dump sewage into Lake Michigan. Lipinski and Kirk's legislation gives cities until 2026 to build the full infrastructure needed to prevent sewage dumping into the Great Lakes. Those who violate EPA sewage dumping regulations after the federal deadline will be fined $100,000 for every day they are in violation. Both Lipinski and Kirk believe it is time for Great Lakes cities to be held responsible for the health of the lake system."The Great Lakes are a critical resource and we must take action to protect them for today and for generations to come," Lipinski said. Joining Lipinski and Kirk in support of the Great Lakes Water Protection Act were Dick Lanyon, Superintendent of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, Cameron Davis from the Alliance of the Great Lakes, Laurel O'Sullivan, Great Lakes Campaign Chair for the Natural Resources Defense Council, Steve Drew, President of the North Shore Sanitary District, Ann Maine, Lake County Board Member, Carol Calabresa, Lake County Board Member, Steve Bartram, Executive Director of Lake Forest Open Lands, John Anderson from the Nature Conservancy, Debra Shore, Chicago Wilderness Society and Chris Canning, Village President of Wilmette. The Brookfield Zoo has lent their support to the legislation as well.Kirk and Lipinski will introduce the Great Lakes Water Protection Act this week. They are also original co-sponsors of the Great Lakes Restoration Act and the Save Our Waters from Sewage Act. (June 26, 2006) ###
06.23.2006	CHICAGO CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION CALLS ON BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO SECURE CITY, IMPLEMENT 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS Delegation requests meeting with Sec. Chertoff to discuss progress CHICAGO, IL – In light of the alleged terror plot targeting Sears Tower, U.S. Representatives Jan Schakowsky, Bobby L. Rush, Luis Gutierrez, Danny K. Davis, Jesse Jackson Jr., Rahm Emanuel, Daniel Lipinski and U.S. Senators Dick Durbin and Barack Obama today sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff requesting that the Bush Administration quickly implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission in order to secure Chicago and the nation from another terrorist attack. These members of Congress further requested that Secretary Chertoff meet with Chicago’s congressional delegation to discuss the agency’s progress in filling the holes in our security infrastructure and response programs. The full text of the letter is below: Secretary Chertoff: We write today on behalf of our constituents and residents of the Chicagoland area, who want to ensure that the federal government is doing everything it can to secure our city and to prevent another terrorist attack in the United States. No matter what we learn about the scope of the recently announced alleged plot targeting buildings in the U.S, including Chicago, the arrests make clear that bolstering our homeland security must be the first front in the War on Terror. The Bush Administration and the Republican Congress have yet to implement a number of recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and the Government Accountability Office that are leaving our ports and our plants, our trains and our airlines, and the American people, vulnerable to another terrorist strike on our soil. RISK BASED FUNDING. The 9/11 Commission recommended that state and municipal homeland security funding be allocated based on risk and vulnerabilities (not political influence). The 2006 Urban Area Grant Locations, issued by the Department of Homeland Security, significantly cut funding for the two cities at the top of the list – New York and Washington DC -- while increasing funding for cities like Omaha and Louisville. POLICE AND FIRE. The 9/11 Commission recommended that the Department of Homeland Security and its oversight committees should regularly assess the types of threats the country faces, in order to determine the adequacy of the government’s plans and the readiness of the government to respond to those threats. However it has become clear that our government’s plans have been inadequate. A recent needs analysis identified that nationally 28 percent of firefighters per shift are not equipped with a self-contained breathing apparatus, and 39,000 fire fighters lack personnel protective clothing. And the FY07 Homeland Security Appropriations bill contains a 39 percent reduction in state homeland security grants. To make matters worse, the Department of Homeland Security has not even distributed the appropriated FY06 security grant funds to the states. TRANSIT/RAIL SECURITY. The 9/11 Commission recommended that strategies be developed for neglected parts of our transportation security system, specifically focused on mass transit. DHS has provided only $416 million since 9/11 to secure our nation’s transit systems even though the mass transit industry estimates that $6 billion is needed for security training, radio communication systems, security cameras, and limiting access to sensitive facilities. AVIATION SECURITY. The 9/11 Commission recommended that all passengers and carry-on bags be screened for explosives and that in-line explosive detection systems be installed as quickly as possible. The FY07 Homeland Security appropriations bill does not fund any additional in-line screening systems beyond the current 8 approved airports and a Democratic amendment to provide an additional $200 million more to expand explosive screening systems was defeated by Republicans in Committee. CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY. The federal government requires no security standards for most U.S. chemical plants. In 2003, the Government Accountability Office recommended that the Administration develop a comprehensive national chemical security strategy – which the Administration just released in May, 2006. The strategy asked for Congress to grant DHS the authority to regulate the chemical sector. Because of an amendment by Rep. Sabo, the Secretary of Homeland Security now has the authority to do that. Now we await action by the Administration and the Republican leadership to secure our plants. Illinois has 745 chemical manufacturing facilities – the 6th most of any state in the nation. Given the concerns the 9/11 Commission has raised about unmet homeland security needs, we would like to request that you meet with members of the Chicago delegation to update us on your progress in securing our city and our region-our ports, our plants, our rail, our airports, our first responders, and our freshwater sources. We stand readty to work with you to advance a Congressional agenda that ensures that these holes in our security are filled as quickly as possible. (June 23, 2006) ###
06.20.2006	Lipinski Meets With Polish Foreign Minister Fotyga [WASHINGTON, D.C.] Congressman Dan Lipinski met Monday, June 19, with Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Anna Fotyga and the Polish Ambassador to the United States, Janusz Reiter, to discuss relations between the United States and Poland. "Poland is one of America's closest allies and has continually shown a commitment to the US-led reconstruction of Iraq and the global war on terrorism," Lipinski said. "It's important that we increase economic and cultural ties between Poland and the United States, and strengthen our already close relationship." Ms. Anna Fotyga is the new Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland and was appointed by the Polish President Kaczynski on May 9, 2006. Previously a deputy foreign minister and a Member of the European Parliament representing the Polish Law and Justice party, Fotyga was in the United States to discuss current relations between the United States and Poland, including the Visa Waiver Program. "Including Poland in the U.S. Visa Waiver Program would not only benefit Polish citizens wanting to visit the United States, but would also make it easier for millions of Polish-American citizens to see their families and friends," Lipinski said. Congressman Lipinski has cosponsored legislation to add Poland to the Visa Waiver Program which covers 27 countries, including Slovenia, Brunei, France, Germany, Australia, Singapore, and Japan. In 1991, Poland unilaterally repealed the visa requirement for the United States citizens traveling to Poland. The U.S. Senate recently passed an amendment to immigration reform legislation that adds Poland to the Visa Waiver program for a two years probationary period, and allows Polish citizens to travel to the U.S. for tourism or business for up to 60 days without needing to stand in line to get a visa. (June 20, 2006) ###
06.14.2006	Lipinski Seeks Funding for Rail Line Improvement Grants to Aid Communities Lipinski Offers Amendment to Fund Rail Program at $30 Million Washington D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski offered an amendment to the Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill. This bipartisan amendment would appropriate $30 million for the Capital Grants Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Program, a federal grants program that would invest in rail infrastructure by addressing congestion, safety, and quality of life issues, including the building of railroad underpasses and the creation of quiet zones. "Railroads are a vital mode of transportation in the United States, and the federal government continues to severely under invest in our rail needs," said Lipinski during floor debate. "Railroads provide numerous public benefits, including efficient freight shipment, fuel conservation, pollution reduction, traffic congestion relief, and economic development." "The Third District has great needs for rail improvements and these grants could provide a great assistance by building railroad underpasses, improving safety at crossings, and helping to implement quiet zones in our communities," said Lipinski. Lipinski's amendment reflected bipartisan support from across the country and would provide much needed investment into local rail projects. During the debate today Rep. Lipinski said, "This money would be vital in funding projects that will not only help economic development and create jobs, but also alleviate adverse effects of rail traffic on our communities." "With Chicago as our nation's premier transportation hub and the meeting point of many of America's major rail lines, investing in rail infrastructure makes sense for the Third District. It will improve our local economy, reduce our road congestion, and improve our overall quality of life." "As I have discussed with Ranking Member Olver, this is an important program critical to improving rail infrastructure in this country. I will continue to work with the Ranking Member to see that this program gets included in Conference," said Lipinski. (June 14, 2006) ###
06.14.2006	Congressman Dan Lipinski Garners Federal Funds For Local Transportation and Community Development Projects WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which includes over $1 million for critical transportation and infrastructure projects in Chicagoland totaling $1.05 million as requested by Congressman Dan Lipinski. Additionally, Congressman Lipinski offered an amendment to this bill that would have added $30 million to the Capital Grants Rail Line Relocation Program, which would enhance rail safety and alleviate rail congestion in Chicago. With Congressman Lipinski's support, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, passed by a vote of 406 to 22. "These federal funds represent my continuing efforts to ensure that the taxpayers of the Third Congressional District get their fair share back from the federal government," explained Lipinski. "Should this bill become law, the $1,050,000 in federal funds will go towards important projects that will improve the quality of life in our communities." The FY 2007 Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill includes funding for the following projects requested by Lipinski: $550,000 for an intermodal transit facility, Berwyn $400,000 for Pace Suburban Bus Mobile Data Terminals $100,000 to continue construction of a community center serving the Archer Heights Community The Senate has not yet voted on a FY 2007 Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, therefore the above figures have not been finalized and are subject to change. (June 14, 2006) ###
06.08.2006	Science Committee Approves Legislation for American Competitiveness WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Dan Lipinski expressed his satisfaction with the advancement of legislation aimed at spurring American competitiveness and improving science and math education. With the Congressman's support, the U.S. House Committee on Science yesterday approved two key pieces of legislation, H.R. 5356, The Research for Competitiveness Act, and H.R. 5358, The Science and Mathematics Education for Competitiveness Act. HR 5358 authorizes several programs at the National Science Foundation (NSF) to develop and provide training for current teachers, attract science and math majors to teaching, and improve undergraduate education in science, math, and engineering. The legislation also ensures that the programs will be evaluated to make sure that taxpayer money is being spent wisely. "Good teachers are integral to educating our youth, but they often do not have the tools or training opportunities needed to prepare students for the increasingly competitive economy," said Lipinski. "HR 5358 will help address these needs, ensuring that more highly qualified teachers are in the classroom." H.R. 5356 creates and expands programs at NSF and the Department of Energy's Office of Science to encourage research and development at the cutting edge of new scientific fields. It particularly emphasizes research for early career scientists to encourage these recent science and engineering graduates to stay in these important fields. "There is a growing concern that America is falling behind other countries in science, math, and engineering education and research," stated Lipinski. "Especially with my experience as an engineer, I know that being at the forefront of these fields is a necessity if our economy is to remain strong." (June 8, 2006) ###
06.06.2006	Rep. Lipinski Announces Grant for Midway Airport Safety Improvements Congressman Dan Lipinski announced today that the City of Chicago will receive $15 million to make runway safety improvements at Midway Airport. The grant, secured through the U.S. Department of Transportation, will be used to install arrestor beds in the runway safety areas to prevent incidents such as the one that occurred last December. That accident, which killed one motorist, involved a Southwest Airlines jet skidding off the runway and crashing through the barrier at 55th Street and Central Avenue. "I applaud the federal government's response to my request for more money to strengthen safety at Midway Airport" said Lipinski. "With aircraft-arresting beds, we can greatly reduce the chances of accidents at Midway without expanding the airport's current boundaries." The aircraft arrestor beds to be installed are referred to as Engineered Material Arresting Systems (EMAS). EMAS consists of a bed of specially coated cement blocks engineered to collapse under the weight of an aircraft's landing gear. These systems have been installed at 14 airports around the country and have averted several incidents of planes overshooting smaller runway safety areas. (June 6, 2006) ###
06.05.2006	Alternative Vehicles and Fuels Will Promote Energy Independence and Cost Savings NAPERVILLE, IL - Congressman Dan Lipinski spoke in strong support of gasoline alternatives to power our transportation needs at today's hearing of the U.S. House Committee on Science's Subcommittee on Energy. The hearing focused on the commercialization and development progress of alternative vehicles and fuels. "Working families, small businesses, and consumers in the Third District and across the country are feeling the pinch of high gas prices, with no end in sight," said Lipinski. "As the President has stated, we are addicted to oil. This addiction threatens our national security, environment and public health, as well as our pocketbooks. Alternative vehicles, like hybrid or electric cars, and alternative fuels, such as ethanol and hydrogen, will help us lower costs and lessen our dependence on foreign oil." "Hydrogen is an especially promising energy source," stated Lipinski. "It has great potential to supply much of our transportation energy needs and be environmentally friendly when produced from renewable fuels. I am pleased that the U.S. House of Representatives recently passed hydrogen legislation." Recently, the U.S. House of Representatives passed hydrogen legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Lipinski. H.R. 5143, The H-Prize Act of 2006 establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. There are other forms of alternative vehicles and fuels already on American streets, helping individuals and companies lower their fuel costs and emissions. Fuels such as ethanol and other biofuels produce much lower polluting emissions and are made here in the USA. Unfortunately, these fuels are near impossible to find across much of the country and not all cars can handle them. Some cars already use hybrid technology to use previously wasted energy to increase gas mileage. However, these cars are still more expensive then their standard counterpart and are less than five percent of the US car market. "I am proud to drive an American made hybrid car, which has served me very well," added Lipinski. "However, neither hybrids nor any one solution will solve all of our transportation energy needs and we must continue to look for new technologies." "Research and development, along with creative ideas, like the H-Prize, will help us harness American intellect and ingenuity to solve the energy challenges that face this country," stated Lipinski. "We must continue to invest in research and development to provide for our energy needs for the future. Otherwise, we will be no better off 20 years from now than we are today, and likely we will be much worse off." (June 5, 2006) ###
06.01.2006	By Dan Lipinski http://www.dailysouthtown.com/southtown/columns/guests/x02-guc2.htm Given the current price of gasoline, Americans have focused their attention on the need to change our energy economy. High fuel costs are more than a threat to our pocketbooks. Our current energy policy is also a threat to our national security, the environment and public health. In his State of the Union address, President Bush highlighted these threats, stating that, "Keeping America competitive requires affordable energy. And here we have a serious problem: America is addicted to oil." While short-term policy fixes are necessary, Congress must find creative long-term solutions to our energy problems. There are many energy alternatives to oil, including ethanol, biofuels, and solar and wind power. But another energy source shows great potential for powering our economy - hydrogen. In contrast to oil, which is scarce and causes pollution, hydrogen is abundant and emits only water as a byproduct. However, we need scientific breakthroughs in some aspects of hydrogen technology in order to make it a viable energy source to power our economy. While the federal government currently allocates funds toward hydrogen energy research, we need greater incentives to attract other individuals - outside of national labs and major corporations - to make the needed advances. To address this need, I helped introduce the bipartisan H-Prize Act of 2006. This bill would provide results-driven financial incentives and prestigious national prizes in order to attract the best and brightest teams of entrepreneurs, scientists and engineers to lead the way to the hydrogen economy. Our legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 416 to 6, sets up three prize categories over a 10-year period. Every two years, the government will award four $1 million prizes for advances in the production, storage, distribution and utilization of hydrogen and one $4 million prize for advances in prototype hydrogen vehicles. The grand prize of $10 million, given after 10 years, is intended for a transformational advance in hydrogen energy technology. Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) have introduced H-Prize legislation in the Senate. We did not design the H-Prize to replace research grants, but having done research at a university, I know that these grants often constrain imagination and creativity, and the paperwork involved can discourage potential applicants. Experience tells us that prizes have been an effective way to inspire technological advances, perhaps most famously the Ortieg Prize won by Charles Lindbergh for his successful nonstop flight across the Atlantic. More recently, the first team to make two manned flights in a privately built spaceship won the X-Prize. Numerous people invested large sums of money - much higher than the prize money offered - to try to win these prizes. Furthermore, unlike traditional federal funding, only after someone meets the goals of the H-Prize can they take home the award. The H-Prize relies on a steadfast faith in American innovation to find a solution to our current energy problems. It can serve as a milestone on the road to a cleaner, more prosperous and more secure America. As a former teacher, I know that the H-Prize may be most important in spurring the imagination of our youth, our nation's most valuable resource. Dan Lipinski, of Western Springs, is the congressman for Illinois' 3rd District. (Friday, June 2, 2006) ###
05.25.2006	Lipinski Opposes Drilling in Environmentally Sensitive Artic National Wildlife Refuge Congressman Continues to Work for Clean American Energy Alternatives WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) voted against H.R. 5429 that would open the environmentally sensitive Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to drilling for oil and gas. H.R. 5429 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 225 to 201. "The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a unique and biologically special place that should be preserved," stated Lipinski. "The undisturbed coastal plain is home to a wide variety of plants and animals and is the only wilderness sanctuary in North America that protects a complete range of the arctic ecosystem. Drilling in this region will not solve our nation's energy problem, but may destroy a rare and valuable ecosystem." Proponents of drilling in ANWR point to rising energy prices and the oil reserves that exist off the coast of northern Alaska as evidence that drilling in the refuge would help lower the cost of oil. However, even if the oil reserves in ANWR prove to be at the high end of some estimates, oil prices will only be lowered by one penny over the next twenty years. "Drilling in ANWR fails to lower energy prices today and sets no long term energy strategy for tomorrow," said Lipinski. "We need responsible legislation that encourages conservation and use of alternative forms of energy, reducing our dependence on foreign oil." "One significant way that I have addressed this issue is by introducing H.R. 5143, the H-Prize Act of 2006, and leading its passage through the House of Representatives. This bill would establish competitively awarded cash prizes for advances in the use of hydrogen energy technology. Hydrogen has proven to have great potential as a clean, secure source of energy, especially valuable for powering our cars. Only by encouraging research and development of sustainable sources of energy can we break our addiction to oil." Congressman Lipinski previously helped prevent drilling in ANWR when he voted against its inclusion in the 2006 Budget. He is also a cosponsor of H.R. 567, The Udall-Eisenhower Arctic Wilderness Act, which would designate ANWR's coastal plain as Wilderness, giving it additional protection from drilling. (May 25, 2006) ###
05.18.2006	Congressman Lipinski Votes Against Republican Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Dan Lipinski voted today against the Republican budget proposal, H.Con.Res 376. The resolution, which passed early Thursday morning in an overnight legislative session, makes cuts to vital services while increasing the national debt. The bill passed by a vote of 218 to 210, without a single Democratic vote. "By cutting critical domestic programs such as education, health, environmental protection, and veterans' services, this budget reveals misplaced priorities," said Lipinski, noting that the vote came only days after the Congress had voted to extend tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. While reducing funds for domestic discretionary programs, the budget resolution nonetheless would increase the national debt by continuing large annual budget deficits. Over five years, the budget calls for deficits totaling $1.1 trillion. "This budget continues massive deficit spending, includes damaging budget cuts, and is fiscally irresponsible," Lipinski said. "We need to do better for our students, our veterans, and our families. For these reasons and more, I voted against this proposed budget."Congressman Lipinski Votes Against Republican Budget Proposal. (May 18, 2006) ###
05.16.2006	Congressman Lipinski Delivers Keynote Address ASME Early Education Forum "Engineers and America's Future Challenges" WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Lipinski delivered the keynote address this week at ASME's Early Career Forum in Washington, D.C. at the Loews L'Enfant Plaza Hotel. Below is the contect of the speech: "I am often in a sea of lawyers and businessmen on the House floor. Occasionally, I am asked, "how does your training as an engineer help you?" Certainly it helps in understanding science and technology, math and science education, and transportation and manufacturing issues. But engineering is more than that. At its heart, engineering is problem solving. Today, possibly more than ever, our country needs its engineers to tackle the challenges of our future. It is now that America must decide if it wants to remain the leader in the global economy. With China and India bounding ahead in the marketplace, we must maintain our competitive edge to make sure jobs stay in America and we keep our economy strong. We must address two of the most difficult challenges before us - economic competitiveness and energy independence. And education and research are the key to both. In my opinion, engineers will be vital in making it happen. For years, engineers have helped America become and remain the world leader, although most have remained unknown. For example, while the titans of industry like Bill Gates acquire almost celebrity status, the economy would not have been so strong in the 90s without the anonymous army of engineers who were making micro-chips smaller and run faster and computers more powerful. But there is a growing concern that America is falling behind other countries in engineering. U.S. students continue to score below international averages on math and science tests. In 2004, China graduated more than six times the number of engineers that graduated in the U.S. The National Academy of Sciences recently released a report entitled Rising Above the Gathering Storm, that raised questions about America's future technological and, in turn, economic competitiveness. This report, echoed by the President in his State of the Union address, emphasized the need for government to take a number of actions, including addressing the potential shortage of good engineers. We must act quickly to take up this challenge. We cannot afford to let our economic future falter, and that future requires continuing technological innovation supplied by our nation's engineers. So what can America do? We should not attempt to cut ourselves off from the rest of the world or accept a lower standard of living. Instead we must do what Americans have always done best - educate and innovate, finding creative new solutions for the problems facing our country and the world. And what should the federal government do? First, we must improve and expand our education system, particularly for science, technology, engineering and math, often known by the acronym STEM. The National Academies report that I mentioned earlier has many recommendations for what we in Congress can do to help our country increase both the quantity and quality of our engineers. And there are some of us in Congress who have responded, with proposed new legislation and funding for important programs. Since last year, I have been working with fellow members of the House Science Committee to push for implementation of many of the report's recommendations. In the Senate, Senators Alexander, Bingaman, Domenici, and others have lead the introduction of three bills that they call Protecting America's Competitive Edge. Each of these three bills has more than 60 co-sponsors, emphasizing how important this issue is across the country and between the parties. In the House, I am a proud co-sponsor of several pieces of corresponding innovation legislation, including the "10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds" Science and Math Scholarship Act and the "Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act." The bills address all levels of education. The first step is pre-K through 12 education. We need more teachers trained specifically to teach science and math, and we need federally funded scholarships that encourage math and science students to go into teaching. We have many great teachers in classrooms across the country right now that are working very hard, but often don't have the proper training to teach their subjects. Retraining programs for these teachers would help them learn about the latest technology, both in the scientific and teaching arenas, and bring it back into the classroom. More students should be encouraged and prepared to take Advanced Placement tests, which requires training teachers to teach these difficult subjects. We also need a better system to learn what curricular materials successful teachers are using and pass that information on to other teachers across the country. Teachers are so important and I cannot emphasize this point enough. A teacher first inspired my interest in engineering. When I was a kid I was fascinated in learning how things work, as most children are. I remember Father Fergus who taught me physics at St Ignatius, taking this childhood fascination and tying it to engineering. His creativity and interest sparked MY interest in engineering, I give him the credit for inspiring me to study engineering. And that is the next area that we must improve - training at the college and university level. We need more STEM-focused scholarships to encourage a more diverse base of scientists and engineers. The legislation I helped introduce will create 5,000 new graduate fellowships each year to be administered by NSF. I also strongly support the increases in the President's fiscal year 2007 budget for the research programs at NSF and the Department of Energy's Office of Science. This funding will help entice new engineers and scientists into the field, ensuring that we have a strong, qualified engineering force into the future. Furthermore, I am a co-sponsor of legislation that will create research grants targeted specifically at early career individuals - these grants will help prepare the next generation of experts. We also need to reach for other ways to get kids interested in science, math, and engineering. The first piece of legislation that I wrote and got passed in the House was honoring National Engineers Week. This week is one way to raise the profile and interest in engineering. I am pleased to recognize ASME for their involvement, along with may other engineering groups and corporations across the country, in programs for children during National Engineers Week. For example, the Future City Competition is a great example of how National Engineers Week has touched students across the country. The competition encourages 7th and 8th grade students to use problem solving skills, team-work, research and presentation skills, practical math and science applications, and computer skills to present their vision of a city of the future. These students had great opportunities to learn more about the many factors that go into building a city, and then they applied that knowledge to a real problem. Working with teachers and mentor engineers, they solved problems ranging from energy supply to waste removal to transportation needs. These students are the ones we will rely on in the coming years to help us address these challenges in the real world. Some of you may have even participated as a mentor or participant. If we are to remain a leader in the world economy, we must make these changes NOW to our education and research institutions and processes. We are already in danger of losing our competitive edge in industries ranging from aerospace to manufacturing. Engineers have been instrumental to the development of these industries and will be continue to be critical. But perhaps the greatest challenge that we face is changing our energy system. The high cost of energy is something that all of us have had to face in recent times. Gas prices are going up, causing increases in everything from airplane tickets to food at the grocery, leaving no American untouched. And it looks like prices will continue to rise. And we as a nation are paying an even higher cost than the price at the pump because of the impact that our fuel choices have on our national security, environment, and public health. Right now, too much of our time and resources go to dealing with situations caused by our dependence on oil we import from unstable regions of the world. This must change. And it will change. An economy based on energy outside of fossil fuels is just over the horizon. There are many proposals being debated across the country to help relieve the pressure of energy prices. These range from short term solutions, such as conservation and increasing efficiency, to long term approaches like research in hydrogen fuel, biofuels, and other renewables. We do not know if one idea or program is going to solve all of our energy problems, but if we do not start to assemble the tools and build an energy model for the future, we will be no better off 20 years from now than we are today, and likely we will be much worse off. We should take further action to address short term measures, primarily conservation and efficiency. For example, Illinois, using federal, state, and local funding, has created a great weatherization and heating assistance program. By teaching people how to use basic techniques, such as reducing heat loss by putting plastic up over windows, this country could save millions of gallons of fuel and working families could save thousands of dollars on heating bills. These are solutions we all think about as mechanical engineers. But these short term solutions will only go so far. We need long-term solutions as well, but many of these will require much research and development. The first long-term solution is to raise the fuel efficiency of our vehicles. Over time, as gas-guzzling cars are replaced with fuel sippers, our demand for gas will decline, bringing down the price at the pump. Using current technology that includes gas-electric hybrids and advanced materials, automakers can produce fleets with higher average mile per gallon standards. Renewable fuels, such as solar and wind energy, are also very promising and are becoming more and more economically feasible. However, their efficiency still needs much work to be improved. And when new technologies are developed, there are additional challenges to commercialization. As a way to address this issue, I am supporting The Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy (ARPA-E) Act, which will speed the commercialization of energy technologies to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign energy by 20% in the next 10 years. Focusing on high-risk, high-reward research that private companies will not fund by themselves, ARPA-E will help us make huge leaps in creating a cleaner, more stable energy economy. But we must also start to think of new alternatives and one new source with great potential is hydrogen energy. Hydrogen holds great promise to meet many of our future energy needs, and it addresses national security, environmental, and economic concerns. First and foremost, if we use hydrogen as a fuel source, we will no longer be dependent on foreign oil. Second, in terms of the environment, the only exhaust hydrogen engines produce is water. Last week I had the opportunity to drive a hydrogen-powered car built by Honda which runs on advanced fuel-cell technology. It did not drive much differently than a gas-powered car, except for the silence (which I'm used to with my Ford Escape hybrid). When I drove the hydrogen car, the Honda representatives claimed the exhaust was clean enough to drink and if we had a glass, they could pour me one right now. Lucky for me, they didn't have glass. Finally, a hydrogen economy can help our manufacturers get back on track. Japanese automakers are thriving as a result of quickly bringing hybrid cars to market. One way American automakers can return to prominence is by being the first to mass produce hydrogen cars. I am confident that engineers, perhaps some of you, will help to make the breakthroughs we need for this to happen. And when these advances are made, hydrogen can fill critical energy needs beyond transportation. Hydrogen will also be used to provide heat and generate electricity. The future possibilities for this energy source are huge. But there are significant problems that must still be worked out before we can put a hydrogen car in every garage. For example, the weight of the fuel cell and batteries must be brought down, the range per fill-up must be expanded, and the price must be lowered - drastically. The car I drove cost 1.5 million dollars. Clearly, several significant technological advances are necessary, but they are within our reach. What role can the government fill to advance this goal? We certainly need to do more than stand up and give speeches. We need to find creative ways to encourage scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs to put us on the road to energy independence. This is why my colleague from South Carolina, Bob Inglis, and I introduced the H-Prize Act of 2006. This bill provides cash prizes for advances in hydrogen storage, production, and distribution, for new prototype hydrogen vehicles that meet certain goals, and a grand prize of $10 million prize over the next 10 years for a breakthrough or transformational technology. We were able to get this bill passed in the House just last week, and Senators Graham and Dorgan have introduced the bill in the Senate. We are hoping that the Senate will also act quickly on this legislation, especially since our bill passed the House by a vote of 416 to 6. But perhaps the most important role of the H-prize may be to spur the imagination of our most valuable resource, our youth. In the 1970s there was great excitement about solar power as an alternative energy source. In my 8 Grade Science Fair project I examined solar energy, because I was excited by what I was reading and hearing about the possibilities. Unfortunately, our interest in alternative energy sources seemed to fall off. We cannot afford to let that happen again. Perhaps there is a student out there today whose imagination will be sparked by the H-prize, and that child may become an engineer and help develop the much-needed answers to today's energy problems. Perhaps one day we will look back on the H-prize as that catalyst that led to a better, cleaner, more secure America and world. So what can engineers do? What can't engineers do - we are the problem-solvers of society, taking the knowledge and science that is scattered about and finding answers to humanity's questions. Engineering training helps teach the type of analytical and innovative thinking that has made America a world leader technologically, militarily, and economically. We have great challenges ahead of us. But we have come so far over the course of our short history as a nation that I know we are up to the challenge. Our nation's future depends on finding solutions to these critical challenges. America has always been at the forefront of technological breakthroughs. We have responded to great challenges, perhaps most famously President John F. Kennedy's challenge to land a man on the moon before the end of the 1960s. We must take advantage of America's great resource - our ingenuity and creativity - to tackle the problems before us. We have some of the best and brightest minds in the world in the United States, as well as an economy that supports and encourages entrepreneurship. Now, we must focus this inventiveness to address the great challenges that face our country." (May 16, 2006) ###
05.15.2006	Lipinski Joins House Small Business Democrats in Introducing Comprehensive Legislation to Overhaul the Small Business Administration WASHINGTON, DC - On Thursday May 11th, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3) joined other Democratic members of the House Small Business Committee last Thursday to introduce comprehensive legislation to overhaul the Small Business Administration (SBA). The Empowering the Next Generation by Investing in the Nation's Entrepreneurs (ENGINE) Act would restore funding to a number of programs that help small businesses, including Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs), and Women's Business Centers (WBCs). "In these times of fierce global competition, the SBA's entrepreneurial development programs provide a valuable service to small business owners seeking to start and grow their business," Congressman Lipinski said. The legislation would authorize $145 million for SBDCs and $16m for WBCs in fiscal year 2007, ensuring that small businesses have access to the training and expertise they need. Lipinski pointed out that one of the greatest problems facing small business owners today is the cost of providing health care coverage for themselves and their employees. "When I talk to small business owners in my Illinois district, there is one issue that comes up, over and over - how do we deal with these debilitating increases in health care costs?" The bill would authorize $3 million for 2007 and 2008 to create a pilot program within SBA that would provide grants to SBDCs and WBCs for helping small businesses tackle the health care issue. The centers would work with business owners to determine available insurance options and help them assess their choices using the most up-to-date information available. As the sole agency charged with assisting this nation's entrepreneurs, SBA has seen its budget cut nearly in half since the beginning of the decade. The new legislation would ensure that small business programs are adequately funded, staffed, and able to meet the needs of our nation's entrepreneurs. "I urge our Republican colleagues on the Small Business Committee to take up this legislation and provide the help that small businesses need to be our nation's economic engines," Lipinski said. The ENGINE act also seeks to revamp the SBA's approach to disaster recovery, after some difficulties experienced in the response to Hurricane Katrina. The bill requires the SBA and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to establish joint guidelines for coordinated disaster assistance programs, calls for more disaster recovery contracts to go to small companies in the affected area, and would establish an associate administrator of disaster planning within SBA. The legislation also would attempt to prevent large companies from winning small-business contracts by requiring an annual report from SBA's Office of Advocacy on contract miscoding. (May 15, 2006) ###
05.15.2006	Lipinski, Emanuel, Schakowsky, Davis, Durbin Mark Medicare Rx Deadline for Millions of Seniors, Call on Congress to Pass Medicare Prescription Drugs Savings and Choice Act CHICAGO, IL - Today marks the deadline for Medicare beneficiaries to enroll in the Administration's Medicare prescription drug benefit without being penalized. Senator Dick Durbin, and Representatives Rahm Emanuel, Jan Schakowsky, Danny Davis, Dan Lipinski, and seniors and advocates held a press conference to discuss ways to improve the prescription drug benefit so that both seniors and taxpayers receive a fair deal. "Today marks the official deadline for enrollment into the Bush Administration's Medicare Prescription drug plan, yet millions of beneficiaries have not yet enrolled. And as a result, millions of seniors will be needlessly taxed for a benefit plan that seems to only benefits drug companies and HMOs," said Emanuel. "As the deadline comes and goes, it is now more important than ever that we improve the program. We must allow Medicare to directly negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies for lower drug prices saving billions for seniors and taxpayers." "Because President Bush and Congressional Republicans stubbornly refused to extend the arbitrary enrollment deadline, one million beneficiaries will be denied coverage this year and millions will have to pay financial penalties that will increase throughout their lifetimes. With a benefit that was constructed by and for the drug companies, all beneficiaries continue to pay unnecessarily high prices under their plans. We must now fix Part D by creating a uniform benefit that requires Medicare to negotiate with the drug companies for lower prices, like the VA does," said Schakowsky. This year, the House Government Reform Committee minority released a report showing that the drug prices offered by the 10 leading Medicare drug plans are: 80% higher than the prices negotiated by the federal government, 60% higher than prices in Canada, and 3% higher than at Costco. The Medicare Prescription Drugs Savings and Choice Act would lower those prices dramatically and pass the savings on to seniors. "We can use good old fashioned negotiating power to achieve savings since the laws of economics say that if one buys in bulk, the price will come down," said Durbin. "The Medicare Prescription Drug Savings Act would ensure that Medicare beneficiaries receive the benefits of their purchasing power." The Medicare Prescription Drugs Savings and Choice Act, introduced by Representative Schakowsky and Senator Durbin would instruct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to offer a nationwide, Medicare administered, drug plan in addition to the plans being offered by the private insurers. The legislation would also require that HHS negotiate with the drug companies for lower prices, like the Veterans Administration does. For months, the members of the Chicago delegation called on the President to extend the Medicare deadline to give seniors and people with disabilities more time to navigate the confusing and chaotic program without having to face a financial penalty. Despite the Congressional Budget Office estimates that an extension would have allowed for an additional one million seniors to enroll, the Bush Administration refused. "At the more than three dozen informational seminars I have held for seniors to help them with this program, my heart has gone out to all those who are understandably bewildered," Lipinski said. "It is unconscionable that Congress and the Administration have refused to act to change this program or even to give Seniors the benefit of extra time to sign up without a penalty." (May 15, 2006) ###
05.12.2006	Congressman Dan Lipinski, joined by Senator Lindsey Graham (SC) and Congressman Bob Inglis (SC), speaks out enthusiastically about the movement of the H-Prize legislation in the Senate. WASHINGTON, DC - On Wednesday, May 10, the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H.R. 5143, The H-Prize Act of 2006, co-sponsored by Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd), to promote development of hydrogen energy sources. This legislation establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. With clean water vapor as its only emission, hydrogen holds great promise as a fuel, though much research and development is needed before this resource will be commercially viable. U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Lipinski released the following statement: "I am very pleased that Senators Graham and Dorgan have introduced this important bipartisan legislation in the U.S. Senate. Hydrogen holds great promise to meet many of our future energy needs, and it addresses national security and environmental concerns. We all know about hydrogen's potential and the great threat continued dependence on fossil fuels holds for America - now we need the vision to inspire our country to meet this challenge. The H-Prize has the potential to be this inspiration, to spur the imagination and creativity of researchers, entrepreneurs, and our youth to meet the greatest challenge of our time." (May 12, 2006) ###
05.12.2006	MEDIA ADVISORY: SCHAKOWSKY, DURBIN, EMANUEL, DAVIS, LIPINSKI TO HIGHIGHT REPUBLICAN FAILURE TO EXTEND PART D ENROLLMENT DEADLINE Joined by senior citizens and advocates, IL Democrats will call on Congress to fix Part D CHICAGO, IL- U.S. Representatives Jan Schakowsky, Rahm Emanuel, Danny Davis, and Dan Lipinski and Senator Dick Durbin will be joined by advocates and seniors to hold a press conference on the arbitrary enrollment deadline for the Medicare Part D program. After Monday, seniors and people with disabilities will be forced to pay a late enrollment penalty that will increase throughout their lifetimes. The CBO estimates that an additional 1 million beneficiaries would have received coverage this year if the deadline was extended. The members of Congress will also call for the passage of the Durbin-Schakowsky Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act, which would provide a uniform benefit under Medicare that allows the agency to negotiate with the drug companies for lower prices, like the VA does. WHO: Senator Dick Durbin and Reps. Schakowsky, Emanuel, Davis, and Lipinski WHAT: Press conference on Part D Enrollment Deadline Day WHEN: Monday, May 15th, 11:00 AM WHERE: Amalgamated Senior Residences 1504 W. Van Buren Chicago (May 12, 2006) ###
05.10.2006	House Approves Lipinski Hydrogen Bill to Promote US Energy Independence WASHINGTON, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives today enacted legislation sponsored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) that will lessen our dependence on foreign fossil fuels by developing hydrogen as a viable energy resource. Congressman Lipinski examining the engine of Honda's hydrogen car in front of the U.S. Capitol H.R. 5143, The H-Prize Act of 2006, introduced earlier this year by Rep. Lipinski along with Rep. Bob Inglis (SC), establishes competitively awarded cash prizes for scientific breakthroughs in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. With clean water vapor as its only emission, hydrogen holds great promise as a fuel, though much research and development is needed before this resource will be commercially viable. "Political instability in the Middle East has contributed to high fuel prices in the U.S. that have affected all Americans. Working families, small businesses, and consumers across the country are feeling the pinch with no end in sight," said Lipinski. "Hydrogen has fueled the sun for about 6 billion years now, and it has enormous potential to meet many of our long-term energy needs here on Earth, while reducing our green house gas emissions." The H-Prize legislation designates prize-eligible categories for hydrogen-related research, including: (1) advancements in certain hydrogen components or systems; (2) prototypes of hydrogen-powered vehicles or other hydrogen-based products; and (3) transformational changes in technologies for hydrogen distribution or production that meet or exceed far-reaching criteria, including minimal carbon emissions and commercial viability. "An economy based on energy outside of fossil fuels is no longer implausible," said Lipinski. "Hydrogen has the potential to reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil, improve our air quality, and maintain our economic competitiveness - the H-prize will help take us there." (May 10, 2006) ###
05.05.2006	CONGRESSMAN DANIEL LIPINSKI ANNOUNCES HIS OFFICE WILL BE TAKING NOMINATION REQUEST LETTERS FOR THE U.S. SERVICE ACADEMIES WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Daniel Lipinski is presently accepting nomination request letters from young persons in the 3rd Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies for the classes entering in the summer of 2007. Lipinski noted, "to be accepted into one of the U.S. Academies is a great honor. Many thousands of gifted young men and women compete each year to be one of those honored to be selected." The service academies include: Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD West Point Military Academy, West Point, NY Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, NY Coast Guard admissions are based on nationwide competition with nocongressional nominations. Potential candidates must have reached their 17th birthday but not their 22nd by July 1, 2006, be a United States citizen, graduated from high school, taken the ACT and/or SAT tests and meet the stringent entrance requirements of their preferred Academy. The selection of nominees is based upon the "whole person" evaluation. Although nominations will not be made until January of 2007, all interested persons are encouraged to submit their written requests as soon as possible. Closing date for completed files is December 1, 2006. Contact Lenore Goodfriend at Lipinski's office in Oak Lawn, 5205 W. 95 Street at (708)424-0853. (May 5, 2006) ###
05.04.2006	LIPINSKI TAKES LEADING ROLE IN "COVER THE UNINSURED WEEK" Lipinski and other Democrats work to provide health care to the 46 million uninsured Americans WASHINGTON, DC - As part of "Cover the Uninsured Week," Congressman Dan Lipinski joined other House Democrats in speaking out for the 46 million Americans who do not have health insurance. This number has increased by 6 million people since 2000. "It is indefensible that there are 46 million Americans without health insurance," stated Congressman Lipinski. "The current administration has failed to provide affordable health care options for these people, choosing instead to stand by as the number of uninsured Americans has increased. In Illinois alone, the number of uninsured grew by 88,000 people between 2000 and 2004. We in Congress have an immediate obligation to address this growing problem." Congressman Lipinski has supported key legislation that would make health insurance affordable and available for more Americans. He is the lead cosponsor of H.R. 765, the Fair Care for the Uninsured Act, which would provide individuals a refundable tax credit for the purchase of private health insurance for their families. Congressman Lipinski also introduced H.R. 3139, the Hospital Price Reporting Disclosure Act, which would require hospitals to report the prices they charge for certain services and drugs, as was seen in a recent 60 Minutes. The uninsured are vulnerable to surprising hospital bills because hospitals do not make their prices known. Greater price transparency will allow consumers to make better decisions and provide incentive for hospitals to keep their prices down. "Millions of working, uninsured Americans go to bed every night worrying what will happen to them and their families if a major illness or injury strikes. At the same time, millions of insured Americans are paying increased health insurance premiums to cover the health care costs of those who are uninsured," stated Congressman Lipinski. "Legislation such as H.R. 3139 and H.R. 765 will save Americans money by lowering hospital prices and helping to provide insurance coverage to those who need it." Congressman Lipinski has also supported legislation that would make health insurance more affordable to small businesses. More than 60% of the working uninsured are either self-employed or work in a firm with fewer than 100 employees. H.R. 525, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, addresses this critical problem and authorizes the creation of association health plans (AHPs). AHPs permit small employers to band together to purchase health insurance, giving small employers the same bargaining power as large employers and thereby greatly reducing the cost burden of health insurance on small businesses. "I am proud to support H.R. 525. Due to the skyrocketing costs of insurance premiums, many small business owners are far less likely than before to provide health insurance for workers and their dependents. This bill gives small businesses the bargaining power they need to offer their employees affordable health insurance." (May 4, 2006) ###
05.03.2006	Science Committee Approves Lipinski Bill to Spur Development of New, Clean Fuel WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski helped pass a bill through the U.S. House Science Committee to provide a prize for research and development that produces a more efficient and affordable hydrogen-powered car. Representative Lipinski introduced this bill earlier this year along with Rep. Inglis (SC) to establish competitively awarded cash prizes for achievements in the advancement of hydrogen energy technology. Hydrogen holds great promise as a fuel because it produces no harmful emissions and will lessen our need for increasingly expensive fossil fuels that are imported from unstable parts of the world. "Gas prices have skyrocketed inflicting pain at the pumps and on our economy, but the costs not only affect our pocketbooks, they affect our health and safety," stated Lipinski. "We cannot continue the pollution of our environment and we cannot continue to rely on energy sources from unstable parts of the world. We must find a new solution to our energy needs and hydrogen has great potential to be a solution." The H-Prize legislation designates prize-eligible categories for research, including: (1) advancements in certain hydrogen components or systems; (2) prototypes of hydrogen-powered vehicles or other hydrogen-based products that meet or exceed certain performance criteria; and (3) transformational changes in technologies for hydrogen distribution or production that meet or exceed far-reaching criteria, including minimal carbon emissions, and which may include cost criteria designed to facilitate the eventual market success of a winning technology. "America has been at the forefront of new technologies for more than a century because our society encourages creativity and imagination, while protecting property rights and promoting entrepreneurship," said Lipinski. "The H-Prize will tap into American's creativity and imagination to solve one of the greatest problems facing us today." (May 3, 2006) ###
04.27.2006	Congressman Lipinski: H-Prize will Advance Innovative Hydrogen Energy Research Congressman Lipinski and Science Committee Chairman Boehlert question witnesses at the Science Committee hearing on H.R. 5143, The H-Prize Act of 2006 WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski voiced his support for research and development of hydrogen fuel and other long-term energy resources during a U.S. House Committee on Science hearing. "Working families are suffering under record high gasoline and natural gas prices, and we know about the national security threats posed by our continued reliance on foreign fossil fuels," said Lipinski. "Hydrogen is one energy source that has shown great potential for powering our economy in the future and I want to ensure that our country is at the forefront of hydrogen research." Despite its promise, a great deal of research and development is needed before hydrogen energy is commercially available. Witnesses before the Committee discussed their support of H.R. 5143, The H-Prize Act of 2006. Congressman Lipinski is the chief Democratic co-sponsor of this vital bipartisan legislation, which establishes a program to competitively award cash prizes in an effort to advance the long-term research and commercialization of hydrogen energy technologies "We in Congress have a responsibility to find creative and new ways to inspire researchers, business leaders, and our youth to utilize new energy sources," said Rep. Lipinski. "Hydrogen holds enormous potential as the base of our future economy, but we must take action today to ensure that we have the technology that we need tomorrow. The H-Prize will help us get there by inspiring researchers, entrepreneurs, and others to compete to find the keys to developing and commercializing hydrogen fuel." (April 27, 2006) ###
04.26.2006	Lipinski Addresses Importance of CREATE Program at Rail Hearing Lipinski Touts CREATE Partnership as Rail Congestion Issues Mount WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski addressed the House Transportation Committee, Subcommittee on Railroads on the vital importance of the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency program (CREATE) to the nation's freight rail system. The hearing was held to discuss rail capacity shortages and buildups along freight rail corridors in this country. In addition to Congressman Lipinski, Administrator Boardman from the Federal Railroad Administration and several key members of the rail industry were there to make remarks. "It is critical that we find more ways to improve rail infrastructure and support the railroad industry's efforts to improve the movement of goods as well as the efficiency of passenger and freight travel," said Lipinski. "We must continue to provide federal support to programs and initiatives that innovatively address capacity shortage." "The CREATE Program is a project of national importance and national significance that will do just that," explained Lipinski. "CREATE will completely overhaul the freight rail system by focusing on twenty-five new grade separations, updating signalization and control technologies, and six rail-to-rail flyovers that will separate freight and passenger rail lines," continued Lipinski. The CREATE program is a $1.5 billion, ten year plan that will make significant strides in reducing congestion by modernizing the antiquated northeastern Illinois rail network. By fixing the Chicago bottleneck, this landmark proposal will result in national benefits and set a standard for streamlining freight and passenger rail lines in this country. "CREATE continues to move forward and I plan to see this project to fruition" said Lipinski. "This program is a dynamic, innovative approach to addressing the increasing capacity and congestion issues we face and will set the precedent in years to come." (April 26, 2006) ###
04.21.2006	CHICAGO, IL- Congressman Lipinski today made the following statement: "On Saturday, April 22, the country will celebrate the 36th Earth Day. On April 22, 1970, the first Earth Day, 25 million people joined around the country to demand a safer, cleaner and healthier world. The impact of that first Earth Day was astonishing. In rapid succession, and with large, bipartisan majorities, Congress passed the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Superfund Act. Thirty-six years later, our air is cleaner, our drinking water is safer, our rivers no longer catch fire and the bald eagle has recovered from the brink of extinction. Yet, despite our many advances, our environment is still threatened by a range of problems, including global climate change, energy dependence on unsustainable fossil fuels, and loss of biodiversity. I strongly support a comprehensive energy policy, which would help solve many of the environmental problems that we face. By increasing our use of ethanol, solar power, and other renewable energy sources, while developing cleaner technologies to use our domestic fossil fuels, such as clean coal, we can strengthen our national security, improve our air quality, and contribute to a better environment. The hydrogen powered car, with its high fuel mileage and zero emission rate, is just one example of the products under development that will help increase our energy independence. With the American can-do spirit and technological know-how, we can revolutionize how we use and produce energy. I am also working with others in Congress to protect our land and water resources. I have continuously supported preservation of the Arctic Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), one of our most magnificent and rare unspoiled ecosystems, from oil and gas drilling. Closer to home, I have been involved in protecting and preserving our Great Lakes. The largest freshwater system in the world, the Great Lakes are a unique and valuable resource, one that helps power our economy and sustain our environment. Growing up in the 1970s, I learned the importance of being proactive in protecting the environment. This year, as we celebrate the 36th Earth Day, we must all rededicate ourselves to moving towards energy independence and protecting our environment for our children and grandchildren. The future is in our hands." (April 20, 2006) ###
04.21.2006	Lipinski to Hold Medicare Seminar CHICAGO, IL - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), in conjunction with Commissioner John Daley and Alderman Jim Balcer, will hold an informational seminar about Medicare Part D on Friday, April 28th. The seminar will take place at Valentine Boys and Girls Club located at 3400 S. Emerald Ave. in Chicago at 10 a.m. "This will be an excellent opportunity for residents of the Third District to have all their questions about Medicare Part D answered. We'll have representatives from Social Security and Medicare on hand to help the people we serve," Lipinski said. More information can be found by calling Congressman Dan Lipinski's office at 312-886-0481, or by calling the 11th Ward Service Office at 773-254-6677. (April 21, 2006) ###
04.17.2006	CHICAGO, IL - Congressman Dan Lipinski announced the 2006 Congressional Art Competition for high school students in the Third Congressional District of Illinois. Lipinski stated, "This nationwide art competition provides Members of Congress an excellent opportunity to showcase the talents of their creative high school constituents and acknowledge our nation's gifted young artists." The competition is open to high school students only. The framed piece must be two-dimensional and be no larger than 30 inch by 30 inch. Winning pieces will hang in the Capitol for an entire year and cannot be returned earlier. All other pieces will hang in Congressman Dan Lipinski's district offices. A release form must be signed by both the artist and teacher. Pieces must be received at the Congressman District offices in Chicago (6245 S. Archer Ave.),Oak Lawn (5205 W. 95 Street), or LaGrange (19 W. Hillgrove Ave.) by May 12, 2006. For more information about the comeptition, please contact Christopher Jutton at 312-886-0481 or Chris.Jutton@mail.house.gov, or visit the Congressman's Lipinski's website. (April 17, 2006) ###
04.10.2006	Lipinski Statement on Border Security and Immigration Reform WASHINGTON, DC - "The United States has long been a beacon for all those around the world who yearn to breathe free, who come here for a shot at achieving their dreams. I have always believed that legal immigrants are important members of our local communities in Illinois. I have held several immigration seminars in my district and have worked to help many people become citizens. For those legal immigrants who dream of becoming American citizens, I will continue to work to make those dreams come true. However, I also believe that a nation that does not control its own borders is not secure. We need to know who is coming into our country, and we need to prevent unauthorized people from entering. With 500,000 or more individuals entering illegally every year, the status quo has become unacceptable. Prior efforts by Congress to control immigration, including the reforms enacted in 1986 and 1996, failed for lack of meaningful employer sanctions. As a result, many undocumented workers have been used and abused by their employers, driving down wages, benefits, and working conditions for all workers. The border security legislation that I voted for, H.R. 4437, addresses this issue by requiring employers to verify a job applicant's eligibility for lawful employment with immigration and Social Security officials, rather than through merely a cursory look at documents that can be easily forged. In addition, the bill doubles the fines for employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers to a minimum of $5,000 for a first offense and up to $40,000 for subsequent offenses. The lack of security on both our northern and southern borders is a grave national security threat to America, and our inability to control who crosses our nation's borders is no longer acceptable. H.R 4437 would put more inspectors and canine units at border crossings; would require the construction of security fences, lighting, and cameras along certain portions of the U.S. border, and would authorizes and reimburses local sheriffs in the counties along the southern border to enforce the immigration laws and transfer illegal aliens to federal custody. An obvious gap in our nation's homeland security efforts is the "catch and release" program, in which illegal immigrants caught at the border from countries other than Mexico (Mexicans caught at the border are already immediately deported) are released into the U.S. once they promise to return for a court date. Not surprisingly, over 75 percent never show up in court and then remain in the country illegally. H.R. 4437 works to address this problem by requiring that all illegal immigrants apprehended at U.S. borders must remain in custody until they are removed from the United States or are legally admitted to the country. Critics of the border security bill argue that its security provisions are too tough. They reject legislation based on strong enforcement and security, arguing that all that is necessary is a guest worker program and amnesty. I admit that H.R. 4437 is not a finished legislative product, and I did not support every provision in it. But it has initiated a long overdue debate in Congress on immigration. I am not convinced there is a labor shortage that requires an additional 550,000 or more guest workers every year, as envisioned by the McCain-Kennedy immigration reform bill, which also allows family members to come along, doubling or tripling the number of new arrivals. To the extent there may be shortages in particular industries, employers could increase wages and improve working conditions to attract legal workers. Only after improving wages and working conditions and proving that no Americans are available for the job should an employer be able to recruit guest workers. I am concerned that guest worker proposals will continue to erode the wages and working conditions of tens of millions of American citizens and legal immigrants. The Commission on Immigration Reform, created in 1995 by President Bill Clinton, reported that "guest worker programs have depressed wages" and reduced employment opportunities for "unskilled American workers, including recent immigrants," who can be easily "displaced by newly entering guest workers." Other studies, including research by the National Research Council and the liberal Economic Policy Institute, show immigrants employed under guest worker programs are paid 15-33 percent less than American citizens, even in highly skilled jobs, driving down wages for all workers. All workers deserve the protection of labor laws and strong enforcement of these laws is essential. While, existing guest worker programs already nominally provide such protections, most are not enforced. After years of half-hearted efforts, the lack of enforcement has reached crisis proportions under the current administration. I do not believe that will magically change under a new guest worker program. I also do not support amnesty proposals that treat every immigrant the same, irrespective of how long they have been here or their contributions to the community. It makes no sense to treat someone who just entered illegally last week the same as someone who has been in the country for a decade or more, gainfully employed and paying taxes, with children who are American citizens. Currently, more than four million potential immigrants around the world are waiting for their paperwork to be processed so they can enter the U.S. legally. It will be years (in the case of Mexico and the Philippines, often ten years or more) before they can enter the country under current quotas. Blanket amnesty for the 11 million already here illegally could delay or prevent the legal immigration of those who are complying with the law. I cannot support legislation that would hurt families following the rules established for legal immigration. Over the last few months, I have had frequent discussions with a wide array of people, all having different points of view on this problem. While I may not have a complete solution, I have come to the conclusion that just implementing a new guest worker program and blanket amnesty will not solve the problem of illegal immigration, and nor will a solution that focuses solely on border security. Increased border security and interior enforcement, including employer sanctions, should be the foundation of any comprehensive solution, and I will continue to participate in this discussion to find a good and meaningful policy solution to this difficult issue." (April 10, 2006) ###
04.05.2006	Lipinski Presses for Release of Information on Outsourcing of U.S. Jobs WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined his colleagues on the House Science Committee in supporting a resolution to require the Department of Commerce to release an already-completed report detailing information on the outsourcing of American jobs. This report, which was requested by Congress, financed by tax-payers, and has already been written, is being withheld from the public. "Reliable data on the outsourcing of American jobs is sorely missing from the debate on globalization," stated Lipinski. "We are currently working on new policies to protect and create American jobs, particularly by improving education. We need more information in order to find the best solutions to this increasing concern for American families." Lipinski cosponsored a Resolution of Inquiry (H. Res. 717) in an effort to compel the Secretary of Commerce to divulge a copy of the report entitled Six-Month Assessment of Workforce Globalization in Certain Knowledge-Based Industries. Drafted between January and June 2004, this report is nearly 200 pages in length and cost taxpayers $335,000. Despite the taxpayer funds spent in conducting the study, the full report was never made public. Some industry analysts have pointed to the "off-limits" report as the only government study that examined all available private sector and government data in assembling its research. The report also contains valuable information on educational training abroad. "Almost every day, I hear from Third District residents who are concerned about their jobs moving overseas," said Lipinski. "In manufacturing alone, Illinois has lost almost 160,000 jobs in the last five years. These are high-paying, training intensive jobs that we need in the U.S. economy to provide families with decent wages. And for Congress to be able to make the best decisions about how to protect and create American jobs, we must have the most reliable and up-to-date information - especially when it is paid for by taxpayers." (April 5, 2006) ###
03.29.2006	LIPINSKI URGES CHINESE LEGISLATORS TO MAKE TRADE PRACTICES MORE FAIR TO AMERICANS Congressman Participates in Roundtable with China's Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman and other Chinese Legislators WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined his colleagues at the U.S.-China Interparliamentary Exchange to discuss with several key Chinese leaders intellectual property rights enforcement, the growing trade imbalance, and the continued concerns over Chinese currency valuation. The exchange included several members of Congress and various Chinese trade and economic leaders, specifically the Honorable Jiang Enzhu, the Chairman of China's National People's Congress' Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman Lipinski, who has long championed the revaluation of China's currency, continued to urge China to allow their currency to appreciate and move towards a more flexible mechanism that reflects free market forces. While China did allow a small currency appreciation last summer - about 2% - their currency remains unfairly low-priced, which continues to harm American trade and causes job losses and low wages in the U.S. "For too long, China has maintained their currency at an artificially low level," stated Congressman Lipinski. "Under-priced Chinese imports are choking U.S. manufacturing and destroying quality American jobs. Third District families have already lost thousands of good-paying jobs due to unfair trade practices. We cannot afford to let this continue." Congressman Lipinski also raised concerns about China's willingness to protect intellectual property rights. The United States, joined by Japan and Switzerland, submitted a request in December of 2005 for information regarding China's anti-piracy policies. The Chinese government has not yet responded to this request. "The United States has long led the world in innovation. Unfortunately, the Chinese government has been reluctant to enforce U.S. and World Trade Organization copyright laws. This is destroying Americans' incentive to create and robbing our innovators of their rightful compensation. China must do more to guarantee the protection of intellectual property rights if both of our countries are to continue to enjoy the benefits of American innovation." (March 29, 2006) ###
03.24.2006	LIPINSKI TOUTS CREATE PROGRAM TO STATE LEGISLATURE Lipinski Speaks on the Future and Continued Success of CREATE SPRINGFIELD, IL- Congressman Dan Lipinski continued his state-wide push for the Chicago Region Environmental and Transportation Efficiency Program, CREATE, with a visit to the State Capitol in Springfield today. The CREATE program is a $1.5 billion plan developed through an unprecedented cooperative effort led by Congressman Lipinski, the City of Chicago, the State of Illinois, and the railroad industry to overhaul freight and passenger rail in the region. "The State matching funds are critical for the future success of this program," said Lipinski. "Without the State funds, CREATE will not be able to move forward and the region will continue to be stymied by severe rail congestion and pollution." Lipinski met several key state officials to discuss the importance of CREATE, including, State. Rep. Jay Hoffman (D-Collinsville), Chair of the House Transportation Committee, and Budget Director John Filan. The Congressman also joined Tim Martin, the Illinois Secretary of Transportation, and several other state officials and railroad executives at a news conference to discuss the rail improvement program. "It is extremely important to keep on pace with CREATE and I plan to see this project to fruition," continued Lipinski. "This program will affect the entire state generating hundreds of millions of dollars in construction and job-related economic activity as well as improving quality of life for the whole region. "Without the funds and participation of State, this project will just not work," said Lipinski. "It is important we maintain this dynamic partnership and continue to work together to secure more funding." (March 24, 2006) ###
03.16.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski, in a statement in the House of Representatives, spoke out against the continued outsourcing of America. In the last several years we have seen Illinois manufacturing jobs shut down, high tech jobs shipped off, and with the recent scuttled Dubai Ports deal, our national security being sold out. "In the current climate our national security must be paramount, and we have an obligation to our constituents to make every effort to protect our homeland," stated Lipinski. "The lax attitude towards American security policy that was on display in the Dubai Ports debacle takes us backwards in our fight to protect America from terrorists." Recently, the proposed sale of six U.S. ports to Dubai Ports World - the government-owned company based in the United Arab Emirates - was halted. Strong opposition from the American public and Congress brought this deal to a halt after national security concerns were raised. The Dubai Ports debacle did, however, shed greater light on the problems we continue to face with our homeland security and the continuing battle over outsourcing in this country. "It should come as no surprise that America has begun to outsource our national security, since we continue to promote policies that encourage businesses to ship jobs overseas," continued Lipinski. "Outsourcing comes with substantial costs to the American public and is reflected in our record trade deficit of $725 billion." "First if was manufacturing, then high tech, and now our security that is being sold to the highest bidder," said Lipinski. "We cannot allow this to continue. We must protect America's families by defending our national security and preserving and growing American jobs. America must not be sold out." (March 16, 2006) ###
03.15.2006	Lipinski Urges Action on Common Sense Hospital Price Reporting Bill Congressman Lipinski Testifies At Health Subcommittee Hearing WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) today testified at a hearing of the Health Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, regarding his Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act. This bill would require hospitals to provide clear, concise information about what they charge for common procedures and medications. "We all want more information available when making health care decisions for ourselves and our families," said Lipinski. "This knowledge is especially crucial to the 46 million uninsured Americans. While we work to get coverage for the uninsured, it is imperative to give them the information that will help in their health care choices." Last July, Lipinski and Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) introduced H.R. 3139, the Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act, which would require hospitals to regularly report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) the amount they charge for the twenty-five most commonly performed inpatient procedures, the twenty-five most common outpatient procedures, and the fifty most frequently administered medications. HHS would then post this information on the Internet for easy public access. Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL), Jim DeMint (R-SC), and John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced a companion bill in the Senate, S. 1827. "Most of us would never consider getting our car repaired without first receiving an estimate of the charges, but this is exactly what we do when we need to go to a hospital for treatment," said Lipinski. "It's time to give all Americans the ability to make informed choices about where they seek medical care." Numerous states have taken recent action on this issue. States like Illinois, Florida, Georgia, Ohio, and South Dakota have all passed legislation that require the disclosure of prices charged by hospitals for both in-patient and out-patient procedures. Wisconsin already has this kind of information available to the public on an easy-to-access, user-friendly website (wipricepoint.org). At least 10 more states currently have legislation pending. "This issue is not Democratic or Republican," Lipinski said. "When I'm home in Illinois talking to my constituents, they call this bill one thing - common sense. We expect to have price information for every other purchase that we make, so it only makes sense that we have the same when purchasing healthcare. Because when it comes to health care, information is good for you." (March 15, 2006) ###
03.14.2006	Lipinski's Hospital Price Reporting Bill To Be Considered at House Committee Hearing Congressman Lipinski To Testify At Health Subcommittee Hearing, Wednesday, March 15 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announced today that he will testify at a hearing of the Health Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, regarding his Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act. This bill would require hospitals to provide clear, concise information about what they charge for common procedures and medications. The hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, March 15, 2006, at 10:00 a.m. in 2123 Rayburn House Office Building, and is entitled "What's The Cost? Proposals to Provide Consumers With Better Information About Healthcare Service Costs." Last July, Lipinski and Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) introduced H.R. 3139, the Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act, which would require hospitals to regularly report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) the amount they charge for the twenty-five most commonly performed inpatient procedures, the twenty-five most common outpatient procedures, and the fifty most frequently administered medications. HHS would then post this information on the Internet for easy access. Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL), Jim DeMint (R-SC), and John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced a companion bill in the Senate, S. 1827. "We all want more information available when making health care decisions for ourselves and our families," said Lipinski. "This is especially crucial to the 46 million uninsured Americans. While we work to get coverage for these individuals, we should give them information that will help in their health care choices. We expect to have price information for every other purchase that we make, why shouldn't we have the same when it comes to health care? I look forward to the opportunity to discuss this common-sense, bipartisan bill at the hearing." (March 14, 2006) ###
03.08.2006	House Passes Lipinski's Bill Honoring Contributions of American Engineers Cites Need to Improve Education to Continue American Technological Leadership in World WASHINGTON, DC - This week the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Dan Lipinski's resolution, H.Res. 681, Supporting the Goals and Ideals of National Engineers Week. Since 1951, National Engineers Week has been celebrated across the country to raise public awareness of the important contributions engineers make to our nation and to inspire more young Americans to become interested in engineering. "Engineers have helped us build boats to cross the seas, railroads to take us west, and the internet to communicate with the world," stated Congressman Lipinski, who holds engineering degrees from Northwestern University and Stanford University. "Today we need the innovative capabilities of engineers to confront the new challenges before us, such as developing American energy independence, finding solutions to confront global climate change, and making our nation more secure." Currently, there are more than 2 million working engineers in the United States, but the nation is lagging far behind many others, especially China and India, in the training of new engineers. The National Academy of Sciences recently released a report - Rising Above the Gathering Storm - that raised questions about America's future technological competitiveness. This report emphasized the need for the government to take a number of actions, including addressing the looming shortage of engineers. Improving science, technology, math, and engineering education is one needed step and Congressman Lipinski has co-sponsored legislation that will address many of these education gaps. "I am one of only nine members of this body who has an engineering degree," said Congressman Lipinski. "People often ask me, ‘How does your training as an engineer help you?' Certainly it helps in understanding science and technology issues, math and science education, and transportation and manufacturing issues. But engineering is more than that. Simply put - engineering is problem-solving. Training as an engineer teaches you how to analyze a problem and how to put the steps together to solve that problem, no matter what it may be. It helps teach the type of analytical and innovative thinking that has made America a world leader technologically, militarily, and economically. We must do everything we can to encourage and inspire future engineers so that America continues as a leader in this increasingly competitive world." To view Congressman Lipinski's statement on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate of H. Res. 681, click on this link: http://www.house.gov/apps/list/speech/il03_lipinski/new2006.html (March 8, 2006) ###
03.03.2006	Congressman Lipinski Questions Funding Cuts to Small Business Programs WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL - ), ranking member on the House Small Business Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs, responded today to the administration's seriously underfunded budget proposal for small business entrepreneurial development programs. "Small businesses - our main job creators - have proven time and time again that when given the proper tools, they have the ability to spur growth by adapting to the changing needs of an evolving economy," Lipinski said. "Unfortunately, the administration's latest budget has once again failed to make small business programs a priority for small business owners in Illinois and throughout the country." In addition to making cuts to business assistance programs at the Small Business Administration, the president's FY 2007 budget also reduces funding or terminates 75 percent of the federal programs affecting nearly every aspect of the small business community. These are programs that have provided millions of dollars and thousands of jobs for Illinois small businesses. For example, there will be an increase in the fees associated with the 7(a) Loan Program. The increased fees will make it more difficult for small businesses to receive access to capital. Also scheduled for a cut is the Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) program. In 2005, SBDC's serving the 3rd Congressional District counseled and trained over 4,000 clients, resulting in 1,430 jobs created and retained in our local communities. "SBDC funding is funding well-spent," Lipinski said. "Studies have shown that for every dollar spent on SBDC services, the program returned nearly three dollars to the treasury. It is astounding that the administration would cut this revenue-generating program." Many of the cuts in programs for small businesses even go against the administration's stated priorities, such as promoting energy efficiency. For example, the 2007 budget proposal cuts more than $3 billion in programs designed to assist small businesses become more energy efficient and develop alternative energy products. "We all have a common interest in ensuring that our nation's small businesses succeed," Lipinski said. "Thus, it is vital that we must move forward, provide new initiatives, and strengthen existing ones to make sure small businesses can continue to thrive." (March 3, 2006) ###
02.22.2006	Congressman Lipinski Hosts Senior's Fair in Berwyn Held in Conjunction With Michael O'Connor, Mayor of Berwyn CHICAGO, IL - Congressman Lipinski is hosting a Senior's Fair at the Berwyn YMCA located at 2947 South Oak Park Avenue on Thursday February 23, 2006 in conjunction with Mayor Michael O'Connor. The Senior's Fair will start at 10:00 a.m. and run until 1:00 p.m. Seniors are encouraged to participate in this event to learn more about financial planning, to receive healthcare updates and participate in blood pressure screenings, to listen to presentations on senior safety issues and concerns, and to hear more about the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage benefit. Representatives from local police departments, law offices, financial institutions, as well as the Social Security Office, and the Department of Aging will be available to address your concerns and provide information on how to keep our communities educated and safe. For more information about the Senior's Fair please contact Anthony Constantine in the Chicago office at (312) 886-0481. (February 22, 2006) ###
02.21.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - At a hearing of the House Science Committee, Congressman Dan Lipinski criticized the Bush Administration's FY2007 science and research budget proposal. As one of eleven Members of Congress with an engineering degree, Congressman Lipinski is in a unique position to understand the impact of these funding levels on education and manufacturing. "Although I was impressed with the emphasis that the President gave to science and math education and research in his State of the Union address, the budget falls short in those areas, especially in regard to K-12 education and manufacturing jobs," stated Lipinski. Some science programs receive full funding in the President's budget, including FutureGen, a project to build a zero-emissions coal power plant which Congressman Lipinski supports. Unfortunately, these increases come at the expense of other, very successful programs. One example is the Manufacturing Extension Program (MEP) program that provides small and medium sized manufacturers with needed technical assistance. The FY07 request cuts the MEP by 56% and will hurt the ability of Third District manufacturers to maintain and create jobs. "I am deeply concerned about the cuts to the MEP. Manufacturing jobs in the Third District keep going away and this program helps small firms like Chicago Export Packing and Quality Croutons succeed and stay in business," said Congressman Lipinski. "Many Americans are worried about their children's future standard of living. We need small businesses to thrive so we can help to restore the American dream." "I am also deeply concerned about the cuts to K-12 education, specifically at the National Science Foundation," said Lipinski. "Without a strong math and science background, our children will not be prepared for the increasingly competitive global economy." "Now is not the time to step back from the education and research challenges that lay ahead. We have some of the best and brightest minds in the world, and we must ensure that we give Americans every advantage to remain a leader in the global economy," stated Congressman Lipinski. "I will work with my colleagues in the House Science Committee to improve this budget, especially in the areas of education and manufacturing." (February 21, 2006) ###
02.21.2006	LIPINSKI OPPOSES SALE OF AMERICAN PORT OPERATIONS TO DUBAI-BASED GOVERNMENT FIRM Cites Concerns about American National Security WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski urged the Bush Administration to negate a deal that would put Dubai Ports World (DPW) in charge of the operations of six American ports. DPW is a business owned by the United Arab Emirates. Lipinski joined other lawmakers in calling for a freeze in this transaction until a thorough investigation could be made into the national security implications. "National Security must be paramount," Lipinski said. "Outsourcing the operations of our ports could prove disastrous when we should be doing more, not less, to make sure that weapons of mass destruction are not smuggled into our country." Recently, Britain's Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company (P&O), which runs commercial operations at ports in Baltimore, Miami, New Jersey, New Orleans, New York, and Philadelphia, approved the company's acquisition by Thunder FZE, a subsidiary of Dubai-based Dubai Ports World. The takeover would put Dubai Ports World in charge of these six port operations along the eastern seaboard. Critics of the transaction cite the United Arab Emirates' history as an operational and financial base for the hijackers who carried out the attacks of September 11, 2001. Additionally, they contend the UAE was an important transfer point for shipments of smuggled nuclear components sent to Iran, North Korea, and Libya by a Pakistani scientist. "Ensuring security at our nation's ports is imperative to our continued fight against terrorism in our country," said Lipinski. "With 95 percent of cargo reaching US ports not inspected, it is especially irresponsible of the United States to allow DPW to operate these ports." (February 21, 2006) ###
02.21.2006	Lipinski Honors National Engineers Week WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Lipinski today encouraged the celebration of National Engineers Week, which aims to raise public awareness of the important and positive contributions made by engineers to our quality of life. This year, National Engineers Week is observed from February 19th to 25th and always coincides with the birthday of President George Washington, a military engineer and surveyor. "As one of the few Members of Congress with an engineering background, I realize the important role that engineers have played in American history," stated Lipinski. "Engineers helped us explore the West, develop the strongest military in the world, and now reach to edges of our universe and beyond." Engineering awareness is especially pressing at a time when we are hearing from the Council on Competitiveness, the National Academy of Science, and others that our failure to educate more engineers could have major economic consequences. Engineers Week promotes recognition among parents, teachers and students of the importance of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education and literacy, and motivates youths to pursue engineering careers in order to provide a diverse, vigorous and informed engineering workforce. "Last week, I was pleased to introduce a resolution, co-sponsored by Rep. Bob Inglis of South Carolina, to the U.S. House of Representatives that recognizes and honors National Engineers Week," stated Lipinski. "Now, more than ever, it is important to recognize the many contributions that engineers have made to all Americans and the role they must continue to play for us to remain competitive in an increasingly connected global economy." To learn more information about this national event, please visit the National Engineers Website at http://www.eweek.org/. For Chicago specific events and information, please visit http://www.chicagolandeweek.org/. (February 21, 2006) ###
02.10.2006	2006 National Consumer Protection Week WASHINGTON, DC - This week, February 5th - February 11th, marks the eighth annual National Consumer Protection Week (NCPW). NCPW focuses primarily on consumer education and information as a means for protection against unfair or deceptive fraudulent activities, like identity theft and telemarketing scams. The development of new technologies provides consumers with convenience, opportunity, and access to limitless information about products and services. Despite these apparent benefits, this same technology is sometimes manipulated and used against consumers, resulting in infringement of consumer privacy and identity theft. Accordingly, consumers today must be vigilant against scams and frauds. Additionally, lawmakers must take measures to ensure consumer protection. I am supportive of additional ways that lawmakers can work to enhance consumer protection and privacy. On January 31, 2006, I introduced H.R. 4657, the Secure Telephone Operations (STOP) Act of 2006, which would make the sale of telephone records illegal. If enacted into law, this legislation would stop the gross invasion of privacy of consumers and their phone records, thereby increasing the safety of all citizens. With increased knowledge and heightened awareness, individuals can reduce their susceptibility to deception. Consumers can find relevant information concerning: credit, identity theft, safe computing, telemarketing, and health related issues via the Internet at http://www.consumer.gov/ncpw/consumer.htm or http://www.ftc.gov/ftc/consumer.htm. These websites offer invaluable tips for spotting scams and further dispels common myths about many consumer products. Furthermore, these websites explain ways that you as the consumer can protect yourself from fraudulent activities. During the National Consumer Protection Week, we are reminded of the importance of consumer awareness and education in prevention of identity theft and other frauds. We are also reminded of the necessity of privacy, ensured by lawmakers like ourselves, which protects consumers. Together, educated consumers and dedicated lawmakers provide a firm safeguard against fraudulent activities and scams. (February 10, 2006) ###
02.10.2006	U.S. HOUSE DELEGATION RELEASES REPORT SHOWING HIGH COSTS FOR CHICAGOLAND UNDER MEDICARE DRUG PLAN Medicare Drug Plans Continue to Plague Chicago Beneficiaries, Advocates, Pharmacists CHICAGO, IL -- U.S. Representatives Danny Davis, Rahm Emanuel, Luis Gutierrez, Jesse Jackson Jr., Dan Lipinski, Bobby L. Rush, and Jan Schakowsky, Chicago's delegation in the House of Representatives, today released a report produced by the House Government Reform Committee's Democratic staff exposing that the new Medicare drug benefit has failed to provide drug discounts for Chicago residents. Representatives Schakowsky, Rush, and Lipinski hosted a hearing today with advocates, beneficiaries, and medical professionals who outlined their ongoing concerns about the Medicare drug benefit's implementation around Chicago. Representative Schakowsky said, "Republicans crafted this so-called benefit to protect the profits of drug and insurance companies instead of seniors and the disabled. Turning the Medicare benefit over to private drug plans is not just complicated and confusing, it's incredibly costly. We must create a uniform, Medicare-administered benefit that offers affordable drugs by giving Medicare the power to negotiate for lower costs." Representative Rush noted that, "this report further validates the mass confusion the new Medicare prescription drug benefit program has created as a result of partisan interest rather than the best interest of the people," said Rush. "We have a serious problem in this nation when our insurance companies and the pharmaceutical industry are giving free reign to author legislation, which in this case, gravely impacts our seniors. Only a month into the implementation phase, it's evident that Medicare reform is in order so our seniors can have access to affordable drugs." "The Medicare prescription drug program has proven an unmitigated disaster: it is too complicated, too expensive, and has even left some seniors without their life-saving medications. At the two dozen informational seminars I have held for seniors, my heart has gone out to all those who are understandably bewildered by the program," added Lipinski. "When the Medicare drug benefit was being crafted, Congress had a real opportunity to reign in the cost of prescription drugs. We could have allowed for the importation of safe and affordable prescription drugs, for the Secretary of HHS to directly negotiate with the drug companies for lower prices and included meaningful provisions to help generics get to the market quicker" said Mr. Emanuel. "This report clearly demonstrates that the Republican Congress missed an opportunity to lower prescription drug prices in a meaningful way for our seniors." "This report illustrates what happens when Republicans use heavy-handed tactics and arm twisting to pass misguided, special interest-supported legislation -- they end up leaving our nation's seniors twisting in the wind and out in the cold," Gutierrez said. "We need a prescription drug program that actually works for seniors, and not one that just pads the profits of drug companies. We need to rewrite the law in a way that makes sense, and that starts with eliminating the indefensible law that prohibits Medicare from negotiating with the drug companies on behalf of Chicago seniors." According to the report, prescription drug prices in Chicago are 80% higher under the new Medicare prescription drug benefit than they are under prices negotiated by the federal government at other agencies like the Veterans' Administration. Even the drug prices for the same drugs at Drugstore.com and Costco were cheaper than the drugs available under the Medicare drug benefit. Medicare is prevented from negotiating with the drug companies to lower costs under the 2003 law. Advocates, beneficiaries, and medical professionals reported other difficulties that the Medicare benefit is presenting. Some of those who have enrolled have been unable to get their drugs as they transition to their new plans, or because they are not shown in the system as being enrolled. Millions of beneficiaries have yet to choose a plan because they remain unable to decide between dozens of options without the support of independent counselors. A month and a half into the enrollment period, the confusion remains. Representative Schakowsky is an original sponsor and Representatives Lipinski and Emanuel are co-sponsors of H.R. 752, the Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act, which would provide a uniform, Medicare-administered drug benefit that allows Medicare to negotiate with the drug companies to keep prices down. Schakowsky is also an original sponsor and Reps. Rush, Lipinski, Gutierrez, and Emanuel are co-sponsors of H.R. 3861, the Medicare Informed Choice Act, which would give beneficiaries an additional six months to choose a plan. (February 10, 2006) ###
02.10.2006	Lipinski Offers and Urges More Help For Medicare Beneficiaries Lipinski Statement at Field Hearing on the Cost of Medicare Prescription Drug Program CHICAGO, IL - Congressman Daniel Lipinski, along with Congresswoman Schakowsky and Congressman Rush, hosted a hearing today with advocates, beneficiaries, and medical professionals who outlined their ongoing concerns about the Medicare drug benefit's implementation around Chicago. Pictured above, Congressman Dan Lipinski (center), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (left), and Congressman Bobby Rush (right) listen to testimony regarding Medicare Part D. The Congressional Hearing took place on Friday, February 10th at the Metcalf Federal Building in downtown Chicago. The witnesses at the hearing discussed how they were aversely affected by the new Medicare Drug Program and ways the program could be improved." "The Medicare Prescription Drug Program has been an unmitigated disaster; it is too complicated, too expensive, and has even denied some seniors their life-saving medication. At the two dozen informational seminars I have held for seniors to help them with this program, my heart has gone out to all those who are understandably bewildered," Lipinski said. "Congress must act to change this program without any further delay." One of the many problems discussed at the hearing was that the program is much too complicated. Medicare beneficiaries have to decide whether they should sign up for a drug plan and if so, which one of 60 plans will be best for them. They know that they only have until May 15 to sign up, or they will face a permanent penalty. Unfortunately, if they make a mistake and choose a plan that does not provide them with good coverage, they have to wait until next year to make a change. "Medicare beneficiaries are understandably confused as they receive mountains of slick advertising mailers from insurance companies as well as clever television ads featuring Fred and Ethel Mertz come back to life," said Lipinski. "It's all too much, and as Fred and Ethel's neighbor would say, we ‘have some ‘splainin' to do' about this program." (February 10, 2006) ###
02.03.2006	Congressman Lipinski: America's Economic Success Requires New Investment in Education and Technology WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Lipinski applauded the growing bipartisan interest in promoting American innovation and economic competitiveness. In response to worrisome trends noted in a recent National Academy of Sciences' (NAS) report, Rising Above the Gathering Storm, Lipinski has been working on legislation to boost investment in education and technological innovation. "President Bush's inclusion of science and math education and research coupled with the emphasis on energy independence in the State of the Union address indicates his support of these issues. I am a co-sponsor of three bills, already introduced, that follow many of the NAS recommendations, including increasing the number of qualified math and science teachers and increasing funding for basic research at the National Science Foundation (NSF)." stated Lipinski. "As an experienced educator with an engineering background, I am especially aware that we need this investment so that American ingenuity can continue to create economic growth and new jobs in an increasingly competitive global economic climate." Lipinski continued. "I will continue to work with Members on both sides of the aisle to get this critical legislation passed." The legislation is detailed below. The Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy (ARPA-E) Act (H.R. 4435) establishes a research program within the U.S. Department of Energy modeled after a successful agency at the Department of Defense. The goal of ARPA-E is to reduce US foreign energy dependence by 20% over a 10 year period. The "10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds" Science and Math Scholarship Act (H.R. 4434) implements education recommendations of the NAS report, including the establishment of a scholarship program for science, math, and engineering students who commit to become teachers. Also, it establishes training programs for science and math teachers. The Sowing The Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act (H.R. 4596) would increase funding for basic research at NSF and other federal agencies. It would also create research grants for up to 200 promising early-career researchers and establishes a presidential innovation award to stimulate scientific and engineering advances in areas of national interest.] (February 3, 2006) ###
02.02.2006	Lipinski Opposes Irresponsible Budget Bill Spending Plan Shortchanges Education, Children and Seniors WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski this week voted for the third time against a Republican budget proposal that slashes vital services for working families in order to cut taxes for the wealthiest Americans. "This budget shortchanges those who need help the most. It is neither fair nor fiscally sound and it will be Illinois families, our seniors on Medicaid, our children and the working class in our communities who will feel the effects of this heartless budget," said Lipinski. The legislation, which passed the House on Wednesday by a vote of 216-214, slashes Medicaid, raises the costs of student loans, cuts health care for our poorest children and will reduce child support collections. This was the third time the House voted to pass the 2006 budget reconciliation bill. One version of the bill was originally passed by the House in November. After negotiations with the Senate, the conference report on a compromise version of the bill passed by a vote of 212-206. However, because the Senate made further changes to the bill, the House voted again this week. The legislation cuts spending by $39 billion over five years. Unfortunately, these spending cuts are not being used to reduce the deficit - instead they will help pay for a second budget bill containing $56 billion in tax cuts targeted to the wealthy. The net result will be an increase in the deficit of $17 billion over the next five years. The budget package cuts key services, including the following: Medicaid slashed by $6.9 billion over 5 years and $28.3 billion over 10 years. States will be allowed to charge Medicaid enrollees more to get the health care that they need - allowing substantial increases in co-payments and premiums for many low-income enrollees. Student aid changes fall directly on students and parents. 70 percent of the gross savings in higher education are achieved by increasing college loan costs for parent borrowers and by continuing the practice of forcing student and parent borrowers in many cases to pay excessive interest rates on their loans. $8.4 billion in reduced child support collections. CBO has estimated that the conference report will lead to $8.4 billion in reduced child support collections upon which hundreds of thousands of struggling single parents rely, pushing more children into poverty and letting deadbeat dads off the hook. "Illinois' hospitals, nursing homes, and community health centers depend on Medicaid funding that will be slashed under the current budget," said Lipinski. "In Illinois there are 1,100,574 children, 279,046 elderly, 300,341 people who are blind or disabled, and 396,185 low-income adults who rely on Medicaid for health coverage they otherwise would not have. I am fearful of what will happen when many of these men and women are left burdened with these costs because of the budget cuts and are forced to forego needed medical care." (February 2, 2006) ###
02.02.2006	Congressman Lipinski Honors Catholic Schools' Week Lipinski Introduces Resolution Praising the Contributions of Catholic Schools WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski introduced H.Res. 657, Honoring the Contributions of Catholic Schools. Congressman Lipinski, along with Rep. Mark Kennedy, introduced this resolution to celebrate Catholic Schools' Week, which recognizes the outstanding contribution of American Catholic schools and the strong, values-added education they provide. Started in 1974, Catholic Schools' Week has celebrated the important role Catholic schools play in American education and their continued reputation for excellence in providing today's young people with a strong academic and moral education. To kick off Catholic Schools' Week, Congressman Lipinski held a breakfast roundtable for area Catholic school principals and administrators at St. Laurence High School in Burbank. This was an opportunity for area educators to share the strengths and challenges of Catholic education in our community. In addition to St. Laurence, Congressman Lipinski attended Catholic Schools' Week celebrations at St. Richard School. "As a product of a Catholic education in the Chicago Archdiocese, I understand how important Catholic schools are in providing a spiritual, moral, and intellectual foundation for students," stated Lipinski. "My eight years in grammar school at St. Symphorosa and my four years in high school at St. Ignatius provided me with the knowledge, discipline, and love of learning that enabled me to go on to earn my PhD and become a teacher." "In the Chicago area alone, more than 106,000 young people are preparing for the future at 276 Catholic elementary and high schools. In my district alone, there are 34 grammar school and 5 high schools preparing students for a bright future. Schools in the Catholic Archdiocese have an amazing graduation rate over 99% and 95% of graduates go on to college. That is a testament to the dedicated teachers and administrators who give so much to their students." "Catholic Schools' Week pays tribute to the dedication, character, compassion, and values that embody Catholic education in this country," added Lipinski. "It is important to recognize the outstanding contributions Catholic Schools make in our country today and their continued excellence in educating our children is unparallel. " (February 2, 2006) ###
02.02.2006	Lipinski Introduces Bill to Ban Sales of Personal Telephone Records FCC Chairman Says a "No Sale" Approach Could Help Protect Privacy WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) this week introduced a bill to stop the sale of telephone records. H.R. 4657, the Secure Telephone Operation (STOP) Act, will make it a criminal violation for anyone to sell private phone calling records, such as the log of telephone numbers called by a telephone customer. Congressman Lipinski introduced his legislation on the first day the House of Representatives was in session this year. "Third-party data brokers, openly advertising on the internet, have been offering to sell calling logs to anyone willing to pay," Lipinski said. "These sales reveal the calls made by phone customers - a gross invasion of privacy." FCC Chairman Kevin J. Martin said yesterday that one way to help stop this troubling practice is for Congress to ban the commercial sale of phone records. "I believe that Congress could specifically make illegal the commercial availability of consumers' phone records," he said. Testifying before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Martin said that new legislation should apply to any entity selling this information for a fee, "regardless of how it obtained such information." "Right now there is no law that makes it illegal to sell these records," Lipinski pointed out. "So, we are left with a patchwork of federal laws that deal with the fraud and deception employed in obtaining the customer's records, with enforcement split between several federal agencies. My bill would change this by specifically banning the sale of phone records." The STOP Act is narrowly tailored to allow law enforcement to continue legal retrieval of information and to permit legitimate commercial purposes such as the creation of telephone books. Responsibility for prosecuting violations would be given solely to the Department of Justice and the penalty would be large enough - up to ten years in federal prison - to discourage the practice. "The sale of this information is especially dangerous for law enforcement personnel working undercover and for people victimized by stalkers, such as battered women," Congressman Lipinski said. "This bill will help end this practice which is not only a threat to privacy but also a threat to the safety of vulnerable individuals." (February 2, 2006) ###
01.25.2006	CONGRESSMAN LIPINSKI BRINGS TOGETHER KEY PLAYERS TO SHOW PROBLEMS LUCAS-BERG PIT POSES TO COMMUNITY Rep. Peter Visclosky Joins Lipinski in Looking at the Future of Lucas-Berg (From left to right) Worth Mayor Ed Guzdziol, Congressman Peter Visclosky (IN-01), Congressman Dan Lipinski, and Metropolitan Water Reclamation District President Terry O'Brien discussed the issues facing the Lucas-Berg Pit in the Village of Worth. CHICAGO, IL - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski brought Congressman Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy & Water, to the proposed Lucas-Berg dredging site in Worth in order to show the environmental and safety concerns for the community created by the proposed dumping of dredgings into the pit. At the meeting were also Mayor Ed Guzdziol, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District President Terrence O'Brien, representatives from the Army Corps of Engineers, and community residents. As the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy & Water, Congressman Visclosky plays a key role in Army Corps projects and funding for dredging sites such as Lucas-Berg. Visclosky's visit came at the request of Congressman Lipinski who has been working with all the principals who oversee the site in order to stop the future dumping of dredging for the Cal-Sag Channel. "It is important that Congressman Visclosky see firsthand the impact this dredging facility would have on the community in Worth," stated Lipinski. "We are grateful to the Congressman for visiting Lucas-Berg and appreciate the attention he has given to this matter." The Lucas-Berg Confined Dredged Disposal Facility (CDF) was constructed by the Army Corps of Engineers (Chicago District) in the early 1980s for the dumping of dredgings from the Cal-Sag Channel about 1200 feet from the pit in the heart of Worth. "After convening these meetings with the Army Corps, Water Reclamation, Worth, and now Congressman Visclosky, I am hopeful that we can find an alternative option for the Cal-Sag dredgings," said Lipinski. "This community deserves better than to have these dredging dumped so close to their homes, schools, playgrounds, and businesses." "It is a unique opportunity to have Congressman Visclosky here today," continued Lipinski, "I am happy that we now have him onboard as we work towards a resolution." (January 25, 2006) ###
01.23.2006	Congressman Lipinski Unveils Bill to STOP The Sale of Personal Telephone Records WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) unveiled a bill to stop the illicit sale of telephone records. The Secure Telephone Operation (STOP) Act will make it illegal to sell private phone information, such as the telephone numbers called by a user. It is already illegal to acquire this type of information without the consent of the phone customer, but it is not easy to prosecute the perpetrators. Rep. Lipinski said he will introduce his legislation the first day the House reconvenes next week. "Unscrupulous brokers, many working on the Internet, offer our personal calling information to anybody who will pay their price," Congressman Lipinski said. "This is an invasion of our privacy that will only be stopped when we change the law to make it easier to prosecute." "Right now there is not a law that makes it illegal to sell this information," Lipinski continued. "So, the only way to stop these brokers is to prosecute them for obtaining the information illegally, a crime covered by a patchwork of federal laws, with enforcement split between the Department of Justice, the Federal Communication Commission, and the Federal Trade Commission. My bill would change this." By prohibiting the sale of telephone records, STOP would go further than the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which currently only restricts methods used to obtain customer data from telephone companies. Responsibility for prosecuting violations would be given solely to the Department of Justice and the penalty would be large enough - up to ten years in federal prison - to discourage the practice. "The sale of this information is especially dangerous for law enforcement personnel working undercover and for people victimized by stalkers, such as battered women," Congressman Lipinski said. "This bill will help end this practice which is not only a threat to privacy but also a threat to the safety of vulnerable individuals." STOP is narrowly tailored to allow law enforcement to continue legal retrieval of information and to permit legitimate commercial purposes such as the creation of telephone books. (January 23, 2006) ###
01.13.2006	Congressman Lipinski, St. Laurence High School Host Catholic Schools Week Roundtable Discussion Jan. 27 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will join St. Laurence High School in hosting a roundtable discussion of the issues facing Catholic schools to mark Catholic Schools Week, January 29th - February 4th. Catholic educators and community leaders from across the Third Congressional District will join the Congressman 8-9:00 a.m., Friday, January 27th, in the St. Laurence library, 5556 W. 77th St., Burbank. "As a former teacher, I know that Catholic schools are an integral part of our educational system," said Congressman Lipinski, who attended Catholic elementary and high schools. "The challenges facing Catholic schools are many, such as maintaining funding and enrollment and preparing young people for the global competition our nation faces." More information on Congressman Lipinski's Catholic Schools Week Roundtable discussion may be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481. (January 13, 2006) ###
01.12.2006	Congressman Lipinski, Ald. Balcer To Host Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars - 11th Ward CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) and Ald. James Balcer (11th Ward) will host three Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars in February to assist seniors in enrolling in the new program. "I invite my constituents to come to these seminars and ask questions and discuss the Medicare drug plan," Congressman Lipinski said. "No one should feel pressured into making a bad decision about enrolling in this program. Given the current confusion, it is imperative we allow beneficiaries to take their time, check their facts, and know their options without being rushed to choose." Congressman Lipinski and his staff will join Ald. Balcer and experts from the State and Federal government in assisting Medicare participants in enrolling in the drug program at three locations: 11:00 a.m., Friday, February 17th at McKinley Park, 2210 W. Pershing Road 10:00 a.m., Tuesday, February 21st at McGuane Park, 2901 S. Poplar 10:00 a.m., Friday, February 24th at Union Avenue Methodist Church, 4356 S. Union More information on Congressman Lipinski's Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars may be obtained by calling 312-886-0481 or at http://www.house.gov/lipinski/. (January 12, 2006) ###
01.09.2006	LIPINSKI CONTINUES TO FIGHT FOR MORE TIME TO SIGN UP FOR MEDICARE DRUG PLANS SAYS MEDICARE DRUG PLANS ARE TOO CONFUSING, SIGNS DISCHARGE PETITION ON LEGISLATION TO HELP WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Representative Dan Lipinski recently gave the following statement urged Congress to give Medicare beneficiaries more time to navigate through the dozens of confusing Medicare drug plans so they can choose a plan that best meets their needs. Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of legislation that would give seniors and people with disabilities a full year to choose a Medicare drug plan and has signed a discharge petition to immediately bring this legislation up for a vote before the full House of Representatives: "There is one issue of great concern that I hear about over and over again back home, the needlessly complicated Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit Program. Seniors are confused and frustrated as they attempt to study 60 plans in order to first decide whether to join, and then to choose which plan to sign up for. Many are simply giving up. I have already held half a dozen informational seminars on the program and every session has been packed. There is clearly a problem. Congress could - and should - make the program better, more affordable, and less confusing by allowing Medicare to negotiate prices with drug companies. But the very least that Congress must do is pass the Medicare Informed Choice Act, which would delay the late enrollment penalty, prevent beneficiaries from losing their employer-based coverage, and allow seniors to switch plans if they make a mistake. Given the current confusion it is essential that we allow beneficiaries to take their time, check the facts, and know their options without being rushed to choose. We owe no less to our seniors." Additionally, Congressman Dan Lipinski is working to help seniors understand the complexity of the new Medicare Prescription Drug Program by holding informational seminars at various locations throughout the district. For more information contact the Chicago office at (312) 886-0481. Below are local seminars: Thursday - January 12th - Berwyn 6500 West 31st St. 10:00 am Monday - January 16th - Chicago Ridge Village of Chicago Ridge 10455 S. Ridgeland Ave. 11:30 am Tuesday - January 17th - Stickney North Medical Center 6721 West 40th St. 9:00 am Wednesday - January 18th - Burbank Louis Viverito Center 7745 S. Leamington Ave. 10:00 am Thursday - January 19th - Worth Village of Worth 7112 W. 111th St. 10:00 a.m. Monday - January 23th - Central Stickney Central Clinic 4949 S. Long Ave. 10:00 am Friday- February 3rd - Alsip Worth Township Senior Center 11601 S. Pulaski Rd. 2:00 pm Monday - February 13th - Chicago Ridge Village of Chicago Ridge 10455 S Ridgeland 12:00 p.m. Tuesday - February 14th - West Lawn Park, 13th Ward 4233 West 65th St. 10:00 a.m. Wednesday - February 15th - Westchester Westchester Park District 10201 Bond St. 11:00 am Friday - February 17th - Chicago, 11th Ward McKinley Park 2210 W. Pershing Rd. 11:00 a.m. Tuesday - February 21st - Bridgeport, 11th Ward McGuane Park 2901 S. Polar 10:00 a.m. Thursday - February 23th - Berwyn YMCA 2947 S. Oak Park Ave. 10:00 a.m. Friday - February 24th - Carneyville, 11th Ward Union Avenue United Methodist 4356 S. Union Ave. 10:00 a.m. ###
01.02.2006	Congressman Lipinski: LIHEAP Heating Assistance Still Available, But Funds Running Low CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that heating assistance is still available through his office for moderate income individuals and families this winter, but time is running out. "Although we are now in the depths of winter and the first huge heating bills have arrived in the mail, there is still help available through the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP)," Congressman Lipinski said. "However, funds for this program are not infinite - I urge all eligible individuals and families to take advantage of this program as soon as possible." More than 1,500 constituents have applied through the Congressman's office for LIHEAP assistance since November. To make an appointment to discuss LIHEAP income eligibility criteria, please call Congressman Lipinski's Chicago office at (312) 886-0481 or visit http://www.house.gov/lipinski/ (January 2, 2006) ###
01.02.2006	Congressman Lipinski Joins Stickney Township Supervisor Viverito in Hosting Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars: Stickney January 17th Burbank January 18th & Central Stickney January 23rd CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host three Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars in the next few weeks to assist seniors in enrolling in the new program. "I invite my constituents to come to these seminars and ask questions and discuss the Medicare drug plan," Congressman Lipinski said. "No one should feel pressured into making a bad decision about enrolling in this program. Given the current confusion, it is imperative we allow beneficiaries to take their time, check their facts, and know their options without being rushed to choose." Congressman Lipinski and his staff will join Stickney Township Supervisor Louis Viverito, experts from the Federal government and other local officials in assisting Medicare participants to enroll in the Medicare Drug program at three locations: Stickney - 9:00 a.m., Tuesday January 18th at the North Stickney Township Medical Center, 6721 W. 40th St. Burbank - 10:00 a.m., Wednesday January 19th at the Lou Viverito Senior Center, 7745 S. Leamington Central Stickney - 10:00 a.m., Monday January 23rd at the Central Clinic, 4949 S. Long Ave. More information on Congressman Lipinski's Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars may be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481 or at http://www.house.gov/lipinski/. (January 2, 2006)
12.19.2005	CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) will host three Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars in the next two weeks to assist seniors in enrolling in the new program. "I invite my constituents to come to these seminars and ask questions and discuss the Medicare drug plan," Congressman Lipinski said. "No one should feel pressured into making a bad decision about enrolling in this program. Given the current confusion, it is imperative we allow beneficiaries to take their time, check their facts, and know their options without being rushed to choose." At 10 a.m. on Wednesday December 28th, the Congressman and his staff will join Oak Lawn Mayor Dave Heilmann and experts on the new drug program in providing assistance in registering at the Oak Lawn Senior Center, 5330 W. 95th Street. At Noon on Wednesday December 28th, Rep. Lipinski will join Hometown Mayor Donald Roberton in assisting seniors applying for the program at Hometown City Hall, 4331 Southwest Highway. At 10 a.m., Tuesday January 3rd the Congressman's staff will be at the Bedford Park Library, 6721 W. 65th Place, with Village President David Brady to assist seniors in enrolling. More information on Congressman Lipinski's Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars may be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481. (December 19, 2005) ###
12.02.2005	Lipinski Praises Environmentally-Friendly Energy Technology While Touring Local Solar Energy Company Pictured above, Congressman Lipinski and City of Chicago Environment Commissioner Johnston listen to Bill Hannigan, Solargenix Energy's Manufacturing Manager, explain the manufacturing process for the solar collectors. CHICAGO, IL -Today, U.S. Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-3) toured Solargenix Energy, a solar thermal company in Chicago's Bridgeport neighborhood. Lipinski praised solar energy technology as "one piece of the comprehensive energy plan the U.S. must develop to help the environment, make our nation more secure, and promote the continued success of our economy." Solargenix Energy develops and manufactures solar technology to produce hot water, steam, and electricity for residential and commercial use. The Chicago factory specializes in producing solar collectors using a new technology developed by Dr. Roland Winston while at the University of Chicago. The solar collectors concentrate sunlight to heat water for use in homes, laundromats, or schools, cutting the use of natural gas and other nonrenewable energy resources. "The high heating bills expected this winter because of rising natural gas prices make the Solargenix Energy technology even more relevant." said Rep. Lipinski. "Renewable energy sources are becoming more affordable for American families and businesses, lessening dependence on fossil fuels that threaten our national security and environment. Solargenix Energy is leading the way in developing this important energy source locally." Joining Rep. Lipinski on the tour were Chicago Environment Commissioner Sadhu Johnston and Deputy Environment Commissioner Brendan Daley. The City of Chicago is purchasing $5 million worth of solar thermal collectors to install in its buildings over the next 3 years, with an expected savings of almost $7 million over the 30-year lifetime of the solar collectors. "The Solargenix Energy factory has not only brought new jobs to the Third District, but also demonstrates the leadership Chicago has taken in developing and using renewable energy," stated Rep. Lipinski. "I commend Mayor Daley and Commissioner Johnston for making Chicago a leader in renewable energy use. "I will continue to work in the U.S. Congress to develop a more comprehensive energy plan that includes a strong renewable energy component." (December 2, 2005) ###
11.30.2005	Lipinski Fights to Give Seniors More Time To Sign Up For Medicare Drug Plans Citing Confusion of Medicare Drug Benefit Plans, Lipinski Sponsors Bill To Help WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Dan Lipinski called for Medicare beneficiaries to be given more time to navigate through the dozens of confusing Medicare drug plans so they can choose a plan that best meets their needs. Lipinski announced he is a cosponsor of legislation that would give seniors and people with disabilities a full year to choose a Medicare drug plan. This bill, the Medicare Informed Choice Act, would delay a late-enrollment penalty, prevent beneficiaries from losing their employer-based coverage, and allow seniors to switch plans if they make a mistake. "I have met with seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries all over the district, and they tell me about how they are faced with a mountain of prescription drug bills and a growing stack of glitzy brochures from insurance companies looking for new customers," Lipinski said. "Our seniors deserve a less confusing, less expensive prescription drug plan. The least we can do is give them more time to understand their options to make the best choice." In the Cook County alone, senior citizens and people with disabilities will have to choose from more than 60 plans. Unfortunately, recent studies have shown most beneficiaries do not understand the program. Additionally, the Administration sent incorrect information to beneficiaries, and now the Department of Health and Human Services tells seniors to use the web, even though 75% of seniors don't use the Internet. Under current law, most Medicare beneficiaries must sign up for a drug plan by May 15th, 2006. Beneficiaries will be charged a late enrollment penalty if they choose to enroll at a later date. Also, once someone signs up for a plan, most beneficiaries will be unable to change plans until 2007, while plans can change the benefits they offer once they give 60 days' notice. Congressman Lipinski is continuing to offer a series of informational sessions across the 3rd District to help ease the burden of choosing a drug plan. For more information call the Congressman?s office at 312-886-0481. "No one should feel pressured into making a bad decision," Lipinski added. "Given the current confusion it is imperative we allow beneficiaries to take their time, check their facts, and know their options without being rushed to choose." (November 30, 2005) ###
11.29.2005	Medicare Prescription Drug Seminars Congressman Lipinski Keeping Seniors Informed WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL03) is working to help seniors understand the complexity of the new Medicare Prescription Drug Program by holding informational seminars at various locations across the district. Below are the schedule dates in your area. For more information please call the Chicago office at (312) 886-0481. Thursday - January 12th 6500 West 31st Street Berwyn, IL 10:00 am Monday - January 16th Village of Chicago Ridge 10455 South Ridgeland Ave. Chicago Ridge, IL 11:30 am Tuesday - January 17th North Medical Center 6721 West 40th St. Stickney 9:00 am Wednesday - January 18th Louis Viverito Center 7745 South Leamington Ave. Burbank, IL 10:00 am Thursday - January 19th Village of Worth 7112 West 111th St. Worth, IL 10:00 am Monday - January 23th Central Clinic 4949 South Long Ave. Central Stickney, IL 10:00 am Monday - February 13th Village of Chicago Ridge 10455 South Ridgeland Ave. Chicago Ridge, IL 12:00 pm Wednesday - February 15th Westchester Park District 10201 Bond St. Westchester, IL 11:00 am Thursday - February 23th YMCA 2947 South Oak Park Ave. Berwyn, IL 10:00 am (November 29, 2005) ###
11.29.2005	CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) will host a Prescription Drug Seminar and Town Hall meeting Saturday, Dec. 10, at Brookfield Village Hall, 8820 Brookfield Ave. At 10 a.m., Congressman Lipinski and his staff, as well as other experts on the new Medicare prescription drug coverage plan, will present information on participating in the program to seniors. At 11 a.m., a Town Hall meeting and general discussion of issues topics will begin. "I invite my constituents to come to this meeting and ask questions and discuss the Medicare drug plan and the other issues they are most concerned about," Congressman Lipinski said. "From health care to education to the war in Iraq, Congress is dealing with many important issues in this term." In addition, Congressman Lipinski's caseworkers will be at Village Hall starting a 9 a.m. to assist constituents with problems involving veterans' benefits, immigration and Social Security. More information on Congressman Lipinski's Brookfield Town Hall Meeting may be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481. (November 29, 2005) ###
11.18.2005	Lipinski Opposes Irresponsible Budget Bill Spending Blueprint Shortchanges Education, Vets, Children and Seniors WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski today voted against the Republican budget proposal that slashes Medicaid, drastically raises the costs of student loans, cuts health care for our poorest children and fails to provide enough money for veterans. "This budget shortchanges those who need help the most. It is neither fair nor fiscally sound and it will be Illinois families, our veterans and seniors on Medicaid, our children and the working class in our communities who will feel the effects of this heartless budget," said Lipinski. The 2006 budget reconciliation bill, which passed 217-215 in the early morning hours of today, cuts mandatory spending by $50 billion. Unfortunately, all of the spending cuts, including such vital programs as student loans and health care, are not being used to reduce the deficit - instead they are being used to help pay for a second reconciliation bill containing $70 billion in tax cuts. The net result of the $50 billion in spending cuts and the $70 billion in tax cuts will be an increase in the deficit of $20 billion. The budget package will pay for the $70 billion in tax cuts targeted to the wealthy by cutting key services, including the following: About three-quarters of the $11.4 billion cut in Medicaid falls directly on enrollees. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has estimated that most of the Medicaid cuts are achieved by requiring Medicaid enrollees to pay substantially more for the health care they need - allowing states to significantly increase cost-sharing and impose premiums on certain enrollees. Nearly $8 billion of the $14.3 billion student loan cut falls directly on students and parents. CBO has estimated that under this budget there are nearly $8 billion in new charges to students and families that will raise the cost of student loans. The costs to the average student borrower will be increased by $5,800. This Budget will result in $24.1 billion in reduced child support collections. CBO has estimated that the bill will lead to $24.1 billion in reduced child support collections upon which hundreds of thousands of struggling single parents rely, pushing more children into poverty and letting deadbeat dads off the hook. "Illinois's hospitals, nursing homes, and community health centers depend on Medicaid funding that will be slashed under the current budget," said Lipinski. "In Illinois there are 1,100,574 children, 279,046 elderly, 300,341 people who are blind or disabled, and 396,185 low-income adults who rely on Medicaid for health coverage they otherwise would not have. I am fearful of what will happen when these men and women are left broadened with these costs because of the budget cuts and are forced to forego needed medical care." (November 18, 2005) ###
11.16.2005	Lipinski Calls for Long Range Solutions to Help Small Businesses Small Business Index (SBI) Continues to Decline WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski today called on Congress to address broad challenges in health care costs, energy prices, and trade policy which are continuing to hamper small businesses in America. Congressman Lipinski spoke at a press conference held by Democratic members of the House Small Business Committee to release the latest measure of the Small Business Index (SBI), which reveals serious weaknesses in business conditions. The SBI - now at an eight-year low after dropping two more points since June - incorporates 17 key economic measures, including health care costs, energy costs, unemployment, and the trade deficit. "In order to have a vibrant economy we need our small businesses to grow and create new jobs," Congressman Lipinski said. "But this report shows the difficulties small businesses face in the current climate of high health care and energy costs, as well as unfair foreign trade practices. Congress must look for long-term solutions to these issues in order to produce a strong and vibrant small business economy." Noting that one bright spot in the SBI report was the uptick in manufacturing orders, Congressman Lipinski nonetheless expressed concern about the future. "This manufacturing report is good news, but it may be an aberration. At a recent roundtable discussion I held in my district, small manufacturers expressed considerable apprehension about staying competitive and maintaining jobs because of the current business climate. We have lost hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs in recent years and the U.S. trade deficit is on track to reach a record level for 2005." Price increases for petroleum and natural gas are putting a strain on businesses, just as they are hurting families. "Natural gas prices are expected to jump by 50 percent this winter, increasing costs for all small businesses, from the mom-and-pop grocery store needing to heat its building, to the energy-intensive small manufacturer facing sky-rocketing production costs," Rep. Lipinski said. "We need to produce a real energy plan, not a quick fix and giveaways to the oil industry," said Congressman Lipinski. "Our country needs to start investing in alternative and renewable sources of energy, increase energy efficiency, and move toward becoming more energy independent." The high cost of health care is another issue facing businesses. Small business owners want to provide health care for their employees, Congressman Lipinski said, but with five straight years of substantial cost increases, they are finding it more and more difficult. The Small Business Index for the Third Quarter of 2005 stands at 69.99, well below its all-time high of 108.89 reached in March 2000. (November 16, 2005) ###
11.14.2005	Congressman Lipinski Works to Prevent Dumping in Lucas-Berg Pit Lipinski Seeks Alternative Site for Channel Dredgings CHICAGO- Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03), pictured above, brought to the table the Rock Island Army Corps of Engineers, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District (MWRD), and the Mayor of Worth, Ed Gudziol at the Worth Village Hall to discuss possible alternatives to dumping dredged material into the Lucas-Berg pit. As community concerns grow in Worth, Lipinski continues to push these key players to seek a new location for the Cal-Sag Channel dredgings. "My goal is to find an alternate location so that we can prevent the dredgings from being dumped into this pit and this community," Lipinski said. "We are working with the Army Corps and Metropolitan Water Reclamation District to seek another site for this project." According to federal law, MWRD must furnish a different site for the Army Corps in order for Lucas-Berg not to be used. At the meeting Congressman Lipinski asked Terry O'Brien, President of MWRD, to look into possible alternative sites. "We would be happy to look in to feasible sites as alternatives to Lucas-Berg," said O'Brien. "There are limitations-MWRD can only facilitate a new site based on the land we currently own, there are fiscal restraints, and legal commitments to be met as well. " The Lucas-Berg Confined Dredged Disposal Facility (CDF) was constructed by the Army Corps of Engineers in the early 1980s for the dumping of dredgings from the Cal-Sag Channel about 1200 feet from the pit in the heart of Worth. "This project was started back in 1977 and the facility has remained unused for nearly thirty years now," continued Lipinski. "The fencing is continuously cut away, maintenance is increasing, and the environmental impact has yet to be determined in the last three decades, all of which should be concerns for both the community and the Corps." In Washington, Congressman Lipinski met personally with Steve Stockton, Deputy Director for the Army Corps and Zoltan Montvai, the Deputy Chief of the Mississippi Valley Division of the Army Corps as well as Terry O'Brien, President of MWRD and Jack Farnan, Superintendent of MWRD to address the problems with Lucas-Berg and the avenues which to pursue. "The Army Corps, MWRD, and the Mayor have all been team players," stated Lipinski. "I believe everyone wants the best for Worth. I am very happy to bring everyone to the plate to focus on all the alternatives." (November 14, 2005) ###
11.08.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Lipinski made the following statement before the House Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs. Congressman Lipinski is the Ranking Member of this Subcommittee. Statement of the Honorable Daniel Lipinski Subcommittee Hearing on "The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program - Opening Doors to New Technology" House Committee on Small Business Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs November 8, 2005 Thank you Madam Chairman. I am glad to be here today to discuss the Small Business Innovation Research - SBIR - program and the role it plays in keeping our nation on the forefront of technological advancements. In today's fast-paced and highly-competitive global marketplace - the United States continues to be a leader when it comes to technology. In no small part, this success is driven by the efforts of our nation's small businesses. Entrepreneurs continue to be dominant players in keeping the U.S. ahead, with small firms producing 55 percent of all new technological advances. In order to ensure that our country keeps moving forward in science, engineering, and other high-tech fields, we need to continue investing in small firms. The SBIR program is one of the leading tools that empowers small businesses to contribute to the nation's technology sector. SBIR enables entrepreneurs with bright, ground-breaking ideas to receive the valuable seed funding they need in order to start and grow their businesses. By opening a door for small firms to participate in federal research and development, this program is responsible for enabling thousands of small businesses to move their ideas from laboratories to the marketplace. The SBIR program has played a significant role in turning a wide variety of innovative dreams into reality -- from quick-frozen foods to personal computers. By harnessing the imagination and spirit of small, high-tech innovators, we strengthen our ability to meet national research priorities, while laying the groundwork for the next generation of small technology firms in the United States. The SBIR program is not merely helpful, but it is a critical program for spawning research and development in the early, pre-commercial stages. Without the resources offered through SBIR, many small businesses will lack what they need to spur high tech innovation and development in order to move this nation forward for generations to come. I look forward to hearing the testimony of today's witnesses including any ideas for improvement that will make the SBIR more equitable, efficient, and productive. Thank you. (November 8, 2005) ###
11.04.2005	Congressman Lipinski Invites Constituents to Sign Up for E-Newsletters WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) has taken his office onto the information superhighway and is now offering an E-mail newsletter to his constituents. "I look forward to using this interactive, online communications tool to learn as much about my constituents' priorities and concerns as they will use it to learn about what I am doing for the Third District," Congressman Lipinski said. Rep. Lipinski's E-Newsletter includes information on key Congressional votes, upcoming events in the Third District and planning trips to Washington, D.C. The E-Newsletter also links directly to the Congressman's website: http://www.house.gov/lipinski/. Constituents can subscribe to the E-Newsletter by visiting the website, or calling Congressman Lipinski's district office at (312) 886-0481. (November 4, 2005) ###
11.03.2005	Lipinski Recognizes the Next Generation of Solar Energy Innovators WASHINGTON, DC - On November 2, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) heard from university professors and graduate students about what it will take to harness the power of the sun and progress toward the solar power and energy efficiency technologies of the future. During a U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science hearing, participants shared what they learned from their involvement in the recently completed 2005 Solar Decathlon, which was held on the National Mall in Washington, DC last month. The Solar Decathlon was sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy and featured a contest in which students from major universities around the country demonstrated houses of their own design featuring solar energy production technologies and innovative energy conservation features. "I have been interested in the potential of solar power for more than 25 years. My 8th grade science fair project examined the future role of solar energy. As an example, I built a radio powered by a photovoltaic cell," stated Congressman Lipinski. "Today we can see how far the use of solar energy has progressed in the tremendous work of these students in the solar decathlon," added Lipinski. "As an engineer myself, it is especially fascinating to see the design innovations that were developed and used in these solar houses that also have real world applications." Eighteen decathlon teams designed houses that were judged on ten attributes including the living and operating environments as well as the benefits of the technology. The event, designed to stimulate innovation and inspire today's students to pursue careers in science, technology and engineering fields, was first held on the Mall in 2002. The Committee heard from witnesses about their experiences in the planning, design development, construction and set-up for the competition on the Mall. "This exciting opportunity for students emphasizes the great potential that solar energy has for helping with our future energy needs," said Congressman Lipinski. "As we face sky-rocketing costs for natural gas to heat our homes this winter, the work done in this competition is especially relevant." "Just as my science project helped inspire me to pursue an engineering degree, I hope that the Solar Decathlon inspires more young Americans to pursue degrees in science and engineering. For the continued security and economic success of America, we must continue to do all we can to maintain our technological competitive edge. This continues to be one of my highest priorities in Congress and on the Science Committee." (November 3, 2005) ###
11.02.2005	Statement for the Record Congressman Daniel Lipinski "Winning Teams and Innovative Technologies from the 2005 Solar Decathlon" U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science November 2, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Lipinski made the following statement today before the House Committee on Science hearing on Winning Teams and Innovative Technologies from the 2005 Solar Decathlon: "I would like to congratulate all of you and your teams on successfully participating in the 2005 Solar Decathlon. This program is notable not just for the opportunities it provides to students, but also for exposing the general public to new and innovative ways to increase energy efficiency. Solar power holds great hope as an energy source that is not only environmentally-friendly, but also helps reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources, especially oil. As we face sky-rocketing costs for natural gas to heat our homes this winter, the work done in this competition is especially relevant. I have been interested in the potential of solar power for more than 25 years. My 8th grade science fair project examined the future role of solar energy. As an example, I built a radio powered by a photovoltaic cell. Today we can see how far the use of solar energy has progressed in the tremendous work of these students in the Solar Decathlon. As an engineer myself, it is especially fascinating to see the design innovations that were developed and used in these solar houses that also have real world applications. I know that this is not easy work, and I applaud everyone who has put the time and effort into these important projects. Just as my science project helped inspire me to pursue an engineering degree, I hope that the Solar Decathlon inspires more young Americans to pursue degrees in science and engineering. For the continued security and economic success of America, we must continue do all we can to maintain our technological competitive edge. This continues to be one of my highest priorities in Congress and on the Science Committee." (November 2, 2005) ###
10.28.2005	Congressman Lipinski: LIHEAP Heating Assistance Still Available, But Funds Running Low CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) announced today that heating assistance is still available through his office for moderate income individuals and families this winter, but time is running out. "Although we are now in the depths of winter and the first huge heating bills have arrived in the mail, there is still help available through the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP)," Congressman Lipinski said. "However, funds for this program are not infinite - I urge all eligible individuals and families to take advantage of this program as soon as possible." More than 1,500 constituents have applied through the Congressman's office for LIHEAP assistance since November. To make an appointment to discuss LIHEAP income eligibility criteria, please call Congressman Lipinski's Chicago office at (312) 886-0481 or visit http://www.house.gov/lipinski/. (October 28, 2005) ###
10.26.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL03) invites area senior citizens to two events he is hosting in November. At 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, November 5th, at Ridge Park, 9625 S. Longwood Avenue in Chicago, Congressman Lipinski will host a Medicare Prescription Drug Seminar to help senior learn more about this new program. From 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., Friday, November 18th, Congressman Lipinski will host, in conjunction with State Representative Kevin Joyce and State Senator Ed Maloney, a Seniors' Fair at Mt. Greenwood Park, 3724 W. 111th Street in Chicago. "I encourage seniors to participate in these two events to learn more about the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, as well as financial planning, healthcare updates and safety issues," Congressman Lipinski said. "Health care professionals will provide free pressure screenings on November 18th, and representatives from local police departments, law offices, financial institutions, the Social Security Office, and Department of Aging will be on hand to answer questions and address concerns from seniors." (October 26, 2005) ###
10.20.2005	Congressman Lipinski Pushes for More Government Contracts for Small Businesses WASHINGTON, DC - Small businesses are not getting their fair share in the federal marketplace, according to an analysis released today at a press conference by Democrats on the House Small Business Committee. The sixth annual Scorecard Report, which measures 22 federal agencies on their ability to meet small business contracting goals, found that while the federal marketplace grew by 3 percent to nearly $295 billion, contracts to small businesses declined by 31 percent. Fifteen of the 22 federal agencies received poor marks for small business contracting goals. In all, small businesses missed out on contracts worth $1.6 billion in FY 2004. "With the overall size of the federal marketplace expanding, we should be seeing opportunities opening up for our nation's small businesses," said Congressman Dan Lipinski, Ranking Member of the Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs Subcommittee of the Small Business Committee. Many of the worst performing agencies are heavily involved in the post-Katrina rebuilding efforts in the Gulf Coast region, and small business owners have expressed their frustrations with the way federal rebuilding contracts are being awarded. Business owners from the Gulf Coast region spoke of the multiple databases they were told to register in, the timely registration process, and the fact that they had not heard a word back from any of the large contractors or agencies nearly two months later, while large out of state contractors were getting the work. "It is going to take a lot of time and a lot of work to rebuild the infrastructure and the communities in the Gulf region, and it just makes sense that qualified and capable small businesses should be given the job to do," said Congressman Lipinski. "In the Gulf region and nationwide, small businesses are an integral and crucial part of local economies and communities. They should not be overlooked." (October 20, 2005) ###
10.12.2005	Lipinski Works for a Comprehensive U.S. Energy Policy WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Representative Dan Lipinski (IL-03) continued to fight last week for a more comprehensive and secure energy policy for the United States with votes on energy legislation and a speech on the House floor on October 7th. Rep. Lipinski joined more than 200 of his colleagues in opposing windfall tax breaks for oil companies and loosened clean air regulations in a supplemental energy bill approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. "This bill will not improve our energy situation - it would cause harm to our environment, public health, and give huge tax breaks to an industry already raking in record surpluses," said Congressman Lipinski. "If oil producers want to finance new refining capabilities and other infrastructure, they ought to look to their profit margins, not the U.S. taxpayer." Rep. Lipinski voted in favor of an amendment that would have helped protect consumers from current gas price gouging. It would have also helped prevent shortages caused by future disasters that close refineries. This legislation would have given the Federal Trade Commission authority to prosecute either gasoline or natural gas price gougers and created a Strategic Refinery Reserve to hold refined gasoline available to the public in times of energy crisis. "I want energy legislation that will protect consumers and bring down energy prices, not give even more money to the already profitable energy industry," added Rep. Lipinski. During a House floor speech that same day, Rep. Lipinski brought up another important energy issue for the United States - the oil sands in Alberta, Canada, and worrisome Chinese interest in this resource. Chinese companies have begun investing heavily in the Canadian oil sands because recent technology advancements have made the estimated 178 billion barrels of oil much easier and more affordable to extract. While noting our strong relationship with Canada, Congressman Lipinski also voiced concern that Chinese investment could harm America's future energy needs. "As the Chinese become more involved, the U.S. needs to be more engaged with the Canadian government and the provincial government of Alberta in discussing the ramifications of this interest. Let me be clear on this: neither Congress nor the Bush Administration can tell - or should ever attempt to tell - Canada or Alberta what to do. However, our government should utilize our good relations and strong economic ties to learn more about the Chinese interest in Canadian oil and to discuss the potential shared security concerns." "This is a critical time to be concerned about secure energy supplies for the future of the United States. We need to be more diligent about conservation and efficient energy use. We need to be working harder to develop alternative sources of energy. But no matter what we do and how successful we are in weaning ourselves from oil, gas, and other conventional energy sources, our nation will still be in need of foreign fossil fuels for many years to come." "In the unpredictable world we live in today, it would be best to rely on secure sources of energy close to home. That is why I urge Congress and the Administration to learn more about Alberta's oil sands and their potential to supply U.S. energy needs. We must continue to work closely with our neighbors to the North on this important security issue." For the speech on the House Floor, click here http://www.house.gov/apps/list/speech/il03_lipinski/oilsands.html (October 12, 2005) ###
10.11.2005	Congressman Lipinski Raises Alarm About Skyrocketing Home Heating Costs CHICAGO, IL - Congressman Dan Lipinski expressed his concern today over the alarming rise in natural gas prices and the effect they will have on home heating bills in the Chicago area this winter. He joined U.S Representatives Jan Schakowsky, Bobby Rush, Members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Danny Davis of Illinois at a Congressional Chicago hearing to hear expert testimony on the situation from state and city officials, as well as representatives from the Illinois Commerce Commission, Citizen Utility Board, Nicor Gas, Peoples Energy, and the American Gas Association. Natural gas prices are increasing significantly and are having a huge impact on heating costs. Even before recent increases, Illinois residents were paying 44 percent more for natural gas than in 1999. And prices are expected to rise an additional 40 to 70 percent this year. "The dramatic price increases will force some very hard decisions, especially for those on fixed incomes," Lipinski said. "Seniors will be forced to choose between paying for heat and medication, and some families will choose between heat and food. These are proud individuals, hard workers who will suddenly find themselves having to make difficult choices between basic necessities. I fear that the sky-high prices could even prove to have deadly consequences this winter." "But we will not just feel this impact in our home heating bills," added Lipinski. "As a member of the Small Business Committee I have heard from a number of business owners in my district who are concerned about the impact of increasing natural gas prices. As some businesses pass on these costs, families will face rising prices on everything from milk to clothing. Those owners who cannot pass on the costs may have to lay off employees and possibly face the loss of their business." "And don't think that this is a problem that only affects people living 'somewhere else.' Many of those turning to my office for assistance with their heating bills come from communities like La Grange Park, Riverside and Palos Hills." "I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, as well as local communities and businesses, to find tangible solutions to this problem." (October 11, 2005) ###
10.06.2005	Durbin: Uninsured Americans Must be Protected from Price Gouging by Hospitals Bi-partisan Bill Requires Hospitals to Disclose Price of Top Procedures WASHINGTON, DC - With charges varying significantly from one hospital to another, U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) today introduced bipartisan legislation requiring hospitals to report the prices of the 25 most frequently performed in-patient and out-patient procedures and the 50 most commonly prescribed drugs. Durbin said the bill, known as the Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act, will provide uninsured Americans with information to protect them against price gouging. "Being one of the 46 million uninsured Americans is hazardous to your health and to your wallet. Some hospitals charge just $120 for a chest x-ray, others more than $1,500 for the same procedure," Durbin said. "Until we find a way to provide every American with health insurance, the least we can do is to make sure that they will not be gouged at the hospital. Uninsured Americans deserve a level playing field and this bill will help shine the light on these outrageous price inequities." Durbin noted that Illinois has been a leader in providing consumers with access to pricing information from hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers. In addition to the Illinois Right-to-Know legislation that passed the state legislature this year, Illinois has a law requiring hospitals to report in-patient procedure prices and quality data. Durbin said his bill will give consumers across America access to a similar type of price information. The Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act was cosponsored by Senators, Republicans Jim DeMint (SC) and John Cornyn (TX), Dick Durbin (D-IL). A companion bill has been introduced in the House by U.S. Representatives Dan Lipinski (IL) and Bob Inglis (R-SC) "I want to thank Sen. Durbin for his leadership in the Senate on this issue, and I look forward to continuing working with him and our colleagues in protecting Americans from wildly divergent hospital prices," Congressman Lipinski said. (October 6, 2005) ###
09.30.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski in conjuction with St. Xavier University to Host College Financial Aid Seminar October 15 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) and St. Xavier University in Chicago will host a College Financial Aid Seminar at 10 a.m., Saturday, October 15 at Reavis High School, 6034 W. 77th St., Burbank. "As a former college instructor, I know how daunting a task it is for many students and their families to pay for college," Congressman Lipinski said. "A college degree is the great 'equalizer' in our society, so I want to do all I can to make higher education both more available and more affordable for American families." There will be representatives from the Illinois Student Assistance Commission, State Treasurer Judy Baar Topinka's office and other organizations who will present options and answer questions from students and their families about funding a college education. "I encourage high school students, especially juniors and seniors, to take advantage of this opportunity to hear from the experts on how to fund a college education that can now cost more than $20,000 a year, even at a public university" Congressman Lipinski said. More information on the Congressman's College Financial Aid Seminar can be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481. (September 30, 2005) ###
09.30.2005	Congressman Lipinski Joins Effort To Fight Gas Price Gouging WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) has taken action to tackle gas price gouging. "I have joined Rep. Bart Stupak (MI-01) and several of my colleagues in introducing The Federal Response to Energy Emergencies Act of 2005 (H.R. 3936)," said Congressman Lipinski. "This legislation will help protect consumers from gas price gouging." H.R. 3936 will give the President the authority to take immediate action in the face of an energy crisis by declaring a national energy emergency. It will provide the Federal Trade Commission with the authority to investigate and prosecute those that engage in predatory pricing - from oil companies on down to local gas stations - with an emphasis on those who profit most. The bill will also increase transparency in the wholesale petroleum market to prevent anticompetitive pricing practices. Following Hurricane Katrina, gas prices in the Chicago area spiked to an average high of almost $3.25 per gallon. Just in the past year, gas prices have increased by almost a dollar per gallon and Hurricane Katrina has added another 40 cents onto that cost. "Although gas prices have declined since the beginning of September, the rapid increase was devastating to working families already facing high gas prices," added Congressman Lipinski. "We rely on gas and other petroleum products every day to fuel our cars and our economy - oil companies should not be able to take advantage of this need during times of national emergency just to increase their profits. Currently, there is no federal oversight to protect consumers from price gouging and H.R. 3936 would fix that problem," stated Congressman Lipinski. "I will work in Congress to ensure that consumers are charged a fair price at the pump, especially when the nation is faced with an energy crisis." H.R. 3936 was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Education and the Workforce. (September 30, 2005) ###
09.28.2005	Congressional Action in Response to Hurricane Katrina Emergency Funding-First Installment. The president signed into law a $10.5 billion supplemental appropriations bill, HR 3645, for fiscal year 2005 for hurricane disaster relief. Major funding areas are: $10.0 billion for the Homeland Security Department's Emergency Preparedness and Response-Disaster Relief account (under which FEMA operates). $500.0 million for the Defense Department's Operation & Maintenance account. Emergency Funding-Second Installment. The president signed into law a $51.8 billion supplemental appropriations bill, HR 3673, for fiscal year 2005 for hurricane disaster relief. Major funding areas are: $50.0 billion for the Homeland Security Department's Emergency Preparedness and Response-Disaster Relief account (under which FEMA operates). $400.0 million for the Army Corps of Engineers. $1.4 billion for the Defense Department's Operation & Maintenance account. Pell Grant Repayment Relief. The House passed a bill allowing the Education Department secretary to waive repayments of Pell Grants (normally required when students stop attending school) if students are attending a school affected by a major disaster. (HR 3169) Other Education Grant Repayment Relief. The House passed a bill allowing the Education Department secretary to waive the repayment of federal education grant assistance to students whose attendance was interrupted because of the impact of the disaster on the student or the institution. (HR 3668) Increased Flood Insurance Borrowing. The House passed a bill increasing by $2 billion (from $1.5 billion to $3.5 billion), the amount FEMA may, with the president's approval, borrow to carry out the national flood insurance program. (HR 3669) Federal Judiciary Emergency Special Sessions. The House passed a bill allowing U.S. Courts of Appeals to conduct proceedings outside their normal territorial jurisdictions. (HR 3650) Easing of Welfare Regulations. The House passed a bill, HR 3672, that would: Authorize the Homeland Security Department secretary to pay out the welfare block grant funds to the states for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 "as soon as practicable" (they would normally go out on October 1). Give a one-year 20 percent increase in welfare funds to Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. Make available up to $2 billion to allow all states to access current welfare funds to reimburse them for actual costs of providing emergency cash assistance to evacuees spread throughout the United States. Waive the current spending restrictions on unspent, prior-year welfare funds. Waive welfare work requirements and time limits, through the end of fiscal year 2006, "to meet a subsistence need of a family resulting from Hurricane Katrina." Waive penalties on states for failing to comply with certain welfare requirements, if such failure resulted directly from the hurricane or was due to a state's focusing on hurricane victims' needs. Volunteer Liability Protection. The House passed a bill providing injury liability protection, including personal injury and property damage, for any person or organization that in response to Hurricane Katrina, "voluntarily, in good faith, and without a preexisting duty or expectation of compensation, renders aid (including medical treatment and rescue assistance) to any individual. (HR 3736) Individual Tax Relief and Encouraging Private Contributions. The House passed a bill, HR 3768, that: Allows individuals who lived in the disaster area as of August 28, 2005, the option of using their 2004 income to calculate the child credit and the Earned Income Credit on their 2005 tax returns. Grants the U.S. Treasury Department the authority to ensure that taxpayers do not lose dependency exemptions or child credits for 2005 due to temporary relocations. Ensures that individuals affected by the hurricane are not taxed on personal debt relief, such as the cancellation of a mortgage, provided before 2007. Creates a special, one-year tax deduction for individuals who provide rent-free housing to dislocated persons for at least 60 days: $500 for each dislocated person housed in the individual's principal residence (up to a maximum of $2,000). Waives the 10 percent and $100 floors for personal casualty losses. Under current law, individuals who itemize their deductions may deduct personal casualty losses to the extent they exceed 10 percent of adjusted gross income and a $100 floor. Waives the 10 percent tax on up to $100,000 of early withdrawals from IRAs and pensions for individuals affected by the hurricane. Distributed amounts could be repaid to the IRA or pension plan over the three-year period following the distribution and receive rollover treatment. Increases the limit on loans from pension plans from $50,000 to $100,000. Extends from one to two years the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) for employers who hire individuals who lived in the disaster area prior to the hurricane. The credit equals 40 percent of the first $6,000 of wages paid to the employee each year. Increases to five years the period in which insurance proceeds would be nontaxable if reinvested in replacement property in the disaster area. Under current law, insurance proceeds are not taxable if they are invested in replacement property within two years (with respect to damaged business property) or four years (with respect to damaged principal residences in p residentially -declared disaster areas). Allows all homebuyers-not just first-time homebuyers-to qualify for mortgage revenue bonds to finance low-interest rate mortgages through 2007. Exempts cash donations related to Hurricane Katrina from the 50 percent individual income limitation and the phase-out of itemized deductions, if the donation is made before January 2006. Under current law, individuals can deduct charitable donations up to 50 percent of their adjusted gross income. Such deductions are further limited by the phase-out of itemized deductions. Waives the 10 percent corporate income limitation for cash donations related to Hurricane Katrina, if the donation is made before January 2006. Under current law, corporations can deduct charitable donations up to 10 percent of their taxable income. Increases the mileage reimbursement rate for individuals for charitable donation deductions from 14 cents per gallon to approximately 34 cents per gallon. Under current law, individuals can claim a tax deduction for the costs associated with using a personal vehicle for charitable work. Coast Guard Provisions. The House passed a bill, HR 889, which included provisions: Authorizing an additional $60 million in FY2005 for the Coast Guard for emergency disaster relief for Hurricane Katrina. Providing for reimbursements (subject to appropriations) of federal employees who were connected with Coast Guard stations in Louisiana, Mississippi or Alabama for 85 percent of the fair market value of their destroyed residences or 100 percent of their remaining mortgages. An owner receiving this reimbursement would have to transfer to the secretary all right, title and interest of the owner in the relevant property. Directing the Coast Guard, not later than September 15, 2005, and at least once every month thereafter through January 2006, to report to Congress regarding the personnel and assets deployed to assist in the response to Hurricane Katrina and the costs incurred as a result of such response that are in addition to funds already appropriated for the Coast Guard for FY2005. Authorizing one-year extensions for licenses, certificates of registry and Merchant Mariners' documents for residents of Louisiana, Mississippi or Alabama, or for individuals whose records were destroyed in the Coast Guard facility in New Orleans (regardless of residence). Authorizing six-month extensions for inspection certificates for vessels inspected by a Coast Guard Marine Safety Office located in Alabama, Mississippi or Louisiana. Directing the Coast Guard, not later than October 15, 2005, to establish a temporary facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to process applications for new licenses, certificate of registries and merchant mariners' documents. Investigation Committee. The House passed a resolution establishing a committee to investigate the preparation for and response to Hurricane Katrina, (H Res 437) but NOT a bipartisan, independent, 9-11 Commission-style investigation. Expressing Condolences. The House passed a resolution expressing "the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina;" commending "the resiliency and courage of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama;" and committing "to provide the necessary resources and to stand by the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama in the relief, recovery, and rebuilding efforts." (H Res 425) Thanking Foreigners. The House passed a resolution "[expressing] its sincere gratitude to the foreign individuals, organizations, and governments that have offered material assistance and other forms of support to those who have been affected by Hurricane Katrina." (H Res 428) Immigration Relief. The House passed legislation that makes a number of small changes to immigration law in order to assist victims of Hurricane Katrina, including allowing a new immigrant status for spouses and children of legal immigrants who were killed or disabled by the Hurricane, and it extends several filing deadlines for affected aliens. (HR 3827 (September 28, 2005) ###
09.26.2005	Congressman Lipinski Hosted Education Summit WASHINGTON, DC - To help address the challenges facing Third District schools, Congressman Dan Lipinski held an Education Summit with local educators along with state and federal education officials on September 24 at Lyons Township High School in La Grange. The discussion led by the Congressman, a former educator, involved several topics, specifically the No Child Left Behind Act, which is a federal mandate that holds state and local agencies accountable for K-12 education. Pictured above, Congressman Lipinski discussed education issues at the Education Summit. (September 26, 2005) ###
09.22.2005	Congressman Lipinski: H.R. 250 Good Start, But We Can Do Better for American Workers WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Manufacturing Technology Competitiveness Act of 2005 (H.R. 250). The legislation - which originated in the Science Committee - was designed to stimulate manufacturing, jobs and innovation in the U.S. Congressman Lipinski, a member of the Science Committee, supported the bill today because it funds the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) - a job creation program strongly supported by Committee Democrats - and it authorizes programs under the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Dollar for dollar, NIST programs are among the most successful federal investments and have a direct impact on the U.S. economy. The NIST program with the most direct impact on the U.S. job market is the one major program this bill fails to fund - the Advanced Technology Program (ATP). "This bill does some good, but it is a missed opportunity for Illinois manufacturers," stated Congressman Lipinski. "We should take every opportunity to invest in programs that are clearly successful like the ATP - a program that is producing jobs for Illinois workers." Since 2001, we have lost almost 150,000 manufacturing jobs in Illinois, and federal grant programs such as MEP and ATP are instrumental to helping manufacturers remain competitive in a tight market. A survey of the two MEP centers in Illinois revealed that this program helped create or retain almost 3,000 jobs and yielded more than $25 million in savings for Illinois manufacturers for fiscal year 2003 alone. "This problem is not going away - valuable home-grown businesses are lost to cheaper markets overseas every year," said Congressman Lipinski. "Illinois' small and medium-sized manufacturers are the foundation of many communities - when they grow, communities prosper. MEP and ATP are programs that have demonstrated success time and time again. I will continue to support these and other programs that will help Illinois workers and manufacturers." (September 22, 2005) ###
09.20.2005	Reps. Lipinski, Manzullo Discuss Saving American Manufacturing Jobs with Business, Labor, Government Leaders at Hearing BEDFORD PARK, IL - U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) and U.S. Rep. Don Manzullo (IL-16th) were joined by more than 20 business, labor and government leaders Monday at a local steel products plant to discuss ways to save American manufacturing jobs. "Manufacturing has always been the bedrock of our economy, providing solid high-paying jobs for American families," Congressman Lipinski said at the Field Hearing and Roundtable Discussion of the Small Business Committee. "Manufacturing has been the engine for building a strong middle class and is critical for our national security." Congressman Manzullo, Chairman of the Small Business Committee, and Rep. Lipinski, Ranking Member on the Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs Subcommittee, organized the hearing at Archer Wire in Bedford Park to hear directly from business people and labor leaders most affected by foreign competition. "Chairman Manzullo has been a tireless and forceful advocate for U.S. manufacturing and he understands this issue faces all American workers and companies," Congressman Lipinski said. "I asked the Chairman to bring this hearing to the Third District and I am pleased that he agreed to come to Archer Wire today." Rep. Lipinski pointed to the loss of more than 3 million manufacturing jobs in the United States since 1998 as evidence that free trade deals like NAFTA, CAFTA, and Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China are not benefiting American businesses or workers. "Chairman Manzullo and I agree that China's trade policies are a major problem when our annual trade deficit with that country is more then $162 billion," Rep. Lipinski said. "There is nothing normal about our so-called Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China." Congressman Lipinski has consistently supported the implementation of fair trade policies with China and other nations. "No more NAFTAs, CAFTAs or PTNRs for China," Congressman Lipinski said. "Trade is necessary and we can compete, but we must have fair trade." Rep Lipinski has also supported increased education and training for workers, as well as measures to increase U.S. competitiveness, including his sponsorship of the Steel & Aluminum Act. This legislation, which will help preserve jobs in the metal industry while protecting the environment, was guided through the Committee on Science and a successful House vote by Congressman Lipinski. "We need to increase funding for the Small Business Innovation Research Program and Manufacturing Extension Partnership, as well as strengthen ‘Buy American' laws for Federal procurement," Rep Lipinski said. "In addition, we need to make healthcare more affordable and available to small businesses and their employees." U.S. Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) (left) and Don Manzullo (IL-16) discuss saving American manufacturing jobs during a Field Hearing of the House Committee on Small Business Those attending and testifying at the Field Hearing included: Mr. Jim Garrett, Chicagoland Convention and Visitors Bureau Mr. Joe Piliewski, Illinois Chamber of Commerce The Hon. Thomas Murawski, Mayor of Midlothian/Chicago Southland Economic Development Corporation Mr. Bill Hickey, Lapham-Hickey Steel Mr. Marv Lieberman, Archer Wire The Hon. David Brady, Village President of Bedford Park Mr. Francesco Olvera, AFL-CIO Ms. Melva Hunter, Illinois AFL-CIO Mr. Zach Mottl, Atlas Tool & Die Works Mr. Mike Retzer, Save American Manufacturing Now Nick Bianchi, Chicago Federation of Labor Mr. Boro Reljic, Illinois Manufacturing Association Ms. Catherine Schuldt, Butler Wire & Metal Products Mr. Stanley Savic, Savic Consulting Mr. Randy Emmitt, Butler Wire & Metal Products Mr. Richard Svabek, Archer Wire The Hon. Martin Sandoval, State Senator, 12th District (September 20, 2005) ###
09.18.2005	Congressman Lipinski Hosts Education Summit Saturday September 24, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host an Education Summit with school administrators from across the Third District at 10 a.m., Saturday, September 24th, at Lyons Township High School's North Campus Community Room, 100 S. Brainard Ave., La Grange. "With the start of the new school year, I thought it was important to hear from educators about their concerns, such as the No Child Left Behind act," said Congressman Lipinski, an educator before his election to Congress. "I still care deeply about providing a quality education for all of our young people. I hope to exchange ideas with area school superintendents and principals on how to address the growing needs of our schools and the role of the federal government in meeting those needs." Representatives from the U.S. Department of Education, the Illinois State Board of Education, and Chicago Public Schools will also be in attendance. For more information about Congressman Lipinski's Education Summit, please contact Christopher Jutton at (312) 886-0481. (Septmeber 18, 2005) ###
09.12.2005	Congressmen Lipinski, Manzullo Host Small Business Field Hearing on Saving American Manufacturing Jobs CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host a Hearing of the House Committee on Small Business Monday, September 19, in suburban Chicago to hear testimony regarding "Saving American Manufacturing Jobs." U.S. Rep. Don Manzullo (R-IL), Chairman of the Small Business Committee, will co-host the event with Rep. Lipinski, who is the Ranking Member on the Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs Subcommittee of the Small Business Committee. "America's manufacturing base has eroded substantially in recent years, and this has hit families in the Third District and all of the Chicago area especially hard. I believe we in Congress must take the lead in reversing this trend," Congressman Lipinski said. "That is why Chairman Manzullo and I want to hear directly from business, labor, and governmental leaders trying diligently to preserve our industrial economy." The Hearing will start at 10 a.m. at the Archer American Wire plant at 7300 S. Narragansett Ave., in Bedford Park. The public is invited. "This event is a unique opportunity to discuss the decline in U.S. manufacturing in a setting where the issue matters most - a small manufacturing plant in America's heartland," Congressman Lipinski said. "I thank Chairman Manzullo for agreeing to bring this hearing to the Third District." (September 12, 2005) ###
09.12.2005	Congressman Lipinski Organizes Katrina Relief Effort CHICAGO, IL- U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) is organizing a Hurricane Katrina relief effort to bring badly needed supplies to the hard hit Gulf Coast region. "After seeing this devastation, like many people I wanted to do something more than simply talk about this tragedy," Congressman Lipinski said. "Therefore, I looked at what we in the Third District could do to help our fellow citizens get back on their feet." Congressman Lipinski tabbed veteran Congressional aide Jerry Mulvihill and volunteer Catherina Wojtowicz to coordinate the collection and transportation of supplies, including drinking water, diapers, baby formula, canned foods, granola bars, new or gently used clothing and other non-perishable items, to the Gulf states. "Jerry has organized several successful food drives for the underprivileged individuals in the Third District, and Catherina coordinated a similar relief effort for the victims of the Mississippi River flood several years ago," Congressman Lipinski said. "I am confident our Third District community will generously answer this call for help from our fellow Americans on the Gulf." More information on contributing to Congressman Lipinski's relief effort can be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481. Items needed in the Gulf Coast region can be dropped off at the Congressman's three district offices: 6245 Archer Ave., Chicago; 19 W. Hillgrove Ave, La Grange; or 5205 W. 95th St, Oak Lawn. Please call in advance to arrange for dropping off the much-need items for the victims of Hurricane Katrina:. Chicago (312) 886-0481; La Grange (708) 354-0524; Oak Lawn (708) 424-0853; or email LipinskiHelps@yahoo.com.Additional drop-off points will also be announced. Items needed include: In a duffle bag or backpack Baby formula Powdered milk Canned goods Dry drink mixes Individual snack items Gatorade Manual can openers In a backpack or purse New socks Hot weather clothes New underwear School supplies & bags Gently used or new gym shoes Gently used or new baseball caps Gently used or new baby clothes In a one-gallon ziplock bag Toothpaste & toothbrush Soap & shampoo Feminine hygiene products & deodorant Brush & comb Band-aides Baby wipes Shaving cream & razors In a five-gallon plastic bucket Bleach Rubber cleaning gloves Insect repellent & sunscreen Flashlights & batteries Mops & brooms Paper, pens & stamps Playing cards Contributions can also be made to the following relief organizations: Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund (212) 348-0132 www.bushclintonkatrinafund.org American Red Cross (800) HELP NOW (435-7669) www.redcross.org Operation Blessing (800)436-6348 www.ob.org America's Second Harvest (800)-344-8070 www.secondharvest.org Adventist Community Services (800) 381-7171 www.adventist.communityservices.org Catholic Charities, USA (800) 919-9338 www.catholiccharitiesusa.org Christian Disaster Response (941)956-5183 or (941)551-9554 www.cdresponse.org Christian Reformed World Relief Committee (800) 848-5818 www.crwrc.org Church World Service (800) 297-1516 www.churchworldservice.org Convoy of Hope (417) 823-8998 www.convoyofhope.org Corporation for National and Community Service Disaster Relief Fund (202) 606-6718 www.nationalservice.gov/about/donations/index.asp Lutheran Disaster Response (800) 638-3522 www.lwr.org Mennonite Disaster Service (717) 859-2210 www.mds.mennonite.net Nazarene Disaster Response (888) 256-5886 www.nazarenedisasterresponse.org Presbyterian Disaster Assistance (800) 872-3283 www.pcusa.org/pda Salvation Army (800) SAL-ARMY (725-2769) www.salvationarmyusa.org Southern Baptist Convention -- Disaster Relief (800) 462-8657, ext. 6440 www.namb.net/dr United Jewish Communities (800) 462-8657, ext. 6440 www.ujc.org United Methodist Committee on Relief (800) 554-8583 www.methodistrelief.org (September 12, 2005) ###
09.08.2005	Committee on Small Business STATEMENT of the Honorable Daniel Lipinski Hearing on "Freedom in the Workplace - An Examination of a National Right to Work Law" Subcommittee on Workforce Empowerment and Government Programs House Committee on Small Business September 8, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski made the following statement today at the Subcommittee on Workforce Empowerment and Government Programs Hearing on examining the National Right tio Work law. Lipinski is the Ranking Member on this Subcommittee. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Today, we all agree that we need to do more to improve the competitiveness of America's small businesses in this poor economic climate. But it wrong to suggest that organized workers are responsible for problems faced by our small businesses and for our faltering economy. We should not be looking for an undeserving scapegoat to blame for our economic problems, and we should not be trying to weaken the rights of workers to organize under the National Labor Relations Act. Unions are not responsible for skyrocketing gas costs or the rising costs of health insurance. They are not responsible for the burdensome federal regulations that continue to increase on our nation's small businesses and they are also not to blame for China's trade and currency policies. Instead, unions contribute to the well-being of American workers. Last night I attended a dinner at which the National Electrical Contractors Association - NECA - gave an award to Small Business Committee Chairman Don Manzullo. NECA members talked to me about their productive relationship with the union, IBEW. While I know this may be a unique situation, it shows how everyone can benefit when management and labor cooperate. But today we will hear from a number of witnesses who will claim that our laws are stacked in favor of unions and that employees are being forced to join unions. We will hear terms like "freedom of association" and "compulsory unionism." The reality is that no one can be forced to join a union against their will, and a union cannot take action against those who decide not to join their union. In fact, a union has a legal duty to represent every employee - whether or not they are a member of the union. Since unions must by law represent everyone, not only in collective bargaining for better wages and benefits by also in any grievance the worker is involved in, non-union employees must pay agency fees - not union dues - to the union for services they provide. We will hear testimony today how states with right to work laws create a better business environment. However, statistics clearly show that free-bargaining states have a proven record of lower rates of poverty, higher wages, lower rates of workplace fatalities, and better health care benefits, as compared to so-called "right-to-work" states. In fact, one might say that the latter group of states should be known as the "right to work for less" states. Employees are better off without these laws. At the same time, there is no evidence that these advantages are inconsistent with a strong business environment - if anything, they are an indication of a vibrant business climate. I find it hard to believe that the governors and state legislators of free bargaining states would not want the best business environment. Strangely enough, when we hear so much talk in Washington about states' rights - this legislation would go against that standard by depriving states of the right to determine how businesses operate. Our common goal in this committee is to improve the economic environment for small businesses so we can create better jobs for Americans. Unfortunately, a failure to address critical small business issues has hurt the ability of our small businesses to grow and create jobs. In closing, I would also like to note that I want to ensure that this Committee does all it can to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Whether it be through SBA loans or technical assistance or other means, there are programs at the Small Business Administration that can be used to help the thousands of small business owners who will be struggling to get back on their feet. I look forward to today's discussion and the testimony. Thank you, Madam Chairman. (September 8, 2005) ###
09.07.2005	Congressman Lipinski Attacks Rising Gas Prices WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) today took action on rising gas prices in the Third District of Illinois and across the U.S. The disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina has simply contributed to already exorbitant fuel costs. High gas prices not only affect consumers at the pump, but can raise prices for everything from airline tickets to milk and bread at the grocery store. In response to rising gas prices, Congressman Lipinski has co-sponsored House Resolution 299 which asks the President to: Demand that OPEC increase supply; Temporarily suspend deliveries to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and put that oil on the market; Direct the Federal Trade Commission and the Attorney General to exercise vigorous oversight over the oil markets to stop price-gouging at the gas pump; and Create greater transparency in gas pricing. "I am appalled that many gas stations in the Chicago land area are now charging over $3 a gallon for regular gas, yet oil companies continue to receive huge profits," said Lipinski. "In July, Exxon Mobil, the largest publicly traded oil company, announced that its profits for the second quarter in 2005 has risen 32 percent, reaching $7.64 billion. It is unacceptable for oil companies to continue to make record setting profits while the average Chicagoan suffers at the pump." Congressman Lipinski and the Congress will continue to work to stem escalating fuel prices and to prevent any potential shortages. Added Congressman Lipinski, "Prices at the pump are rising - that concerns me, and it concerns our Illinois consumers. Fuel costs began climbing even before the disaster struck the Gulf States. Now, we must do everything possible to ensure gasoline supplies continue to flow, stop price gouging and stabilize the energy markets." (September 7, 2005) ###
09.06.2005	RELIEF FOR HURRICANE KATRINA American Red Cross http://www.redcross.org/ 1-800-HELP NOW (435-7669) Operation Blessing http://www.ob.org/ 1-800-436-6348 America's Second Harvest http://www.secondharvest.org 1-800-344-8070 Adventist Community Services http://www.adventist.communityservices.org/ 1-800-381-7171 Catholic Charities, USA http://www.catholiccharitiesusa.org/ 1-800-919-9338 Christian Disaster Response http://www.cdresponse.org/ 941-956-5183 or 941-551-9554 Christian Reformed World Relief Committee http://www.crwrc.org/ 1-800-848-5818 Church World Service http://www.churchworldservice.org/ 1-800-297-1516 Convoy of Hope http://www.convoyofhope.org/ 417-823-8998 Corporation for National and Community Service Disaster Relief Fund http://www.nationalservice.gov/about/donations/index.asp (202) 606-6718 Lutheran Disaster Response http://www.lwr.org/ 800-638-3522 Mennonite Disaster Service http://www.mds.mennonite.net/ 717-859-2210 Nazarene Disaster Response http://www.nazarenedisasterresponse.org/ 888-256-5886 Presbyterian Disaster Assistance http://www.pcusa.org/pda/ 800-872-3283 Salvation Army http://www.salvationarmyusa.org/ 1-800-SAL-ARMY (725-2769) Southern Baptist Convention -- Disaster Relief http://www.namb.net/dr/ 1-800-462-8657, ext. 6440 United Jewish Communities http://www.ujc.org/ 1-800-462-8657, ext. 6440 United Methodist Committee on Relief http://www.methodistrelief.org/ 1-800-554-8583 (September 6, 2005) ###
09.02.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (il03) today made the following statement on the devastation of Hurricane Katrina: "My thoughts and prayers go out to all those impacted by Hurricane Katrina. As we begin to understand the full extent of the damage, the enormity and the urgency of the situation in the Gulf Region, the devastation can seem nearly overwhelming." "These are the moments when we realize we are our brother's keeper. It is clear that this is a national emergency, and we must all come together to help our fellow Americans immediately." "I am pleased that Congress has been called back to Washington for a special session to get to work and bring quick relief to the victims of this horrific natural disaster. The passage of $10.5 billion in relief funding is a clear and unmistakable bipartisan signal to the people of the Gulf Coast region that we are going to do everything in our power to recover and rebuild. However, this funding is only the first step on the long and challenging path to recovery for the entire Gulf Coast region." "It is difficult to watch this news coverage of this tragedy and not feel a desire to help. Below is a list of organizations you can contact if you want to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina." American Red Cross http://www.redcross.org/ 1-800-HELP NOW (435-7669) Operation Blessing http://www.ob.org/ 1-800-436-6348 America's Second Harvest http://www.secondharvest.org 1-800-344-8070 Adventist Community Services http://www.adventist.communityservices.org/ 1-800-381-7171 Catholic Charities, USA http://www.catholiccharitiesusa.org/ 1-800-919-9338 Christian Disaster Response http://www.cdresponse.org/ 941-956-5183 or 941-551-9554 Christian Reformed World Relief Committee http://www.crwrc.org/ 1-800-848-5818 Church World Service http://www.churchworldservice.org/ 1-800-297-1516 Convoy of Hope http://www.convoyofhope.org/ 417-823-8998 Corporation for National and Community Service Disaster Relief Fund http://www.nationalservice.gov/about/donations/index.asp (202) 606-6718 Lutheran Disaster Response http://www.lwr.org/ 800-638-3522 Mennonite Disaster Service http://www.mds.mennonite.net/ 717-859-2210 Nazarene Disaster Response http://www.nazarenedisasterresponse.org/ 888-256-5886 Presbyterian Disaster Assistance http://www.pcusa.org/pda/ 800-872-3283 Salvation Army http://www.salvationarmyusa.org/ 1-800-SAL-ARMY (725-2769) Southern Baptist Convention -- Disaster Relief http://www.namb.net/dr/ 1-800-462-8657, ext. 6440 United Jewish Communities http://www.ujc.org/ 1-800-462-8657, ext. 6440 United Methodist Committee on Relief http://www.methodistrelief.org/ 1-800-554-8583 (September 2, 2005) ###
07.29.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Announces Bipartisan Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Legislation Companion Senate Legislation to be Introduced Soon WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Dan Lipinski announced the recent introduction of legislation to empower heath care consumers with information the Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act of 2005. Pictured below, Congressman Lipinski is joined by Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) in introducing H.R. 3139, and will soon be joined by Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) who plan to introduce a companion bill in the Senate. "This Hospital Price Disclosure Act would make health care price information for inpatient and outpatient procedures, as well as commonly administered medications, available to consumers on the Internet," Lipinski said. By being able to compare different health care facilities on a consumer-friendly web site, Americans will have more control over and greater confidence in their health care decisions. The Hospital Price Disclosure Act would amend the Medicare regulations to mandate that hospitals regularly report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) the prices for the: 25 most commonly performed inpatient procedures; 25 most common outpatient procedures; and the 50 most frequently prescribed medications. HHS would then post the price information in on the Internet. "As employees are spending more of their own money on health care services, they have a right to know how much different health care facilities charge for outpatient procedures," Rep. Lipinski said. "Informed consumers are a critical part of any long-term solution to address health care access and affordability. Health care decisions are just too important to be left to chance. Would anyone suggest that consumers make better purchasing decisions without price or performance comparisons? Of course not." Also on hand was Senator Richard Durbin, who was there to announce a companion bill in the Senate. "The Hospital Price Disclosure Act, which I have sponsored in the Senate, is a bipartisan effort to improve the consistency of hospital charges," Durbin said. "This legislation will offer important protections to American health care consumers. Illinois has already been a leader in this effort. The Illinois General Assembly passed legislation in 2003 requiring the Illinois Department of Public Health to publish hospital price and performance information on a state website. Now it is time to make this information available to consumers nationwide." When consumers start comparing health care facilities on costs, the facilities will respond accordingly, driving costs down and quality up. Studies on programs like this on a state level, such as the one proposed in Illinois, demonstrate that making performance information public encourages quality improvement. "We all want more facts at our disposal when making health care decisions for ourselves and our families. This legislation will help all health care consumers make better choices about where to seek inpatient and outpatient care," Congressman Lipinski said. "Each of us expects similar disclosures from an auto repair shop; it is time to demand the same from health care providers." (July 29, 2005) ###
07.28.2005	LIPINSKI DELIVERS MILLIONS IN TRANSPORTATION DOLLARS Congress Passes $286.4 Billion Federal Highway Bill WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Lipinski joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act, a reauthorization of federal highway and transit funding. Congressman Lipinski worked hard to ensure that the Third Congressional District will receive a significant share of federal transportation fund from this bill. "I am very pleased to announce that the Third District will receive $26 million in federal dollars to improve our roads, enhance our sidewalks and pedestrian paths, build intrermodal parking facilities, construct bike paths, and increase pedestrian saftey in our neighborhood," said Lipinski. Following is a list of projects that were requested by local communities and the amount of federal money secured by Congressman Lipinski: Upgrading of streets and implementation of traffic and pedestrian safety signalization improvements in Oak Lawn - $4,112,000 A streetscaping project on Harlem Avenue from 71st Street to I-80 in Cook County -$3,280,000 Construction of pedestrian walkways and streetscaping projects in Western Springs - $3,553,600 Construction of a parking facility in LaGrange - $3,232,000 Construction of a parking facility and pedestrian walkways at 94th and South Oak Park Avenue in Oak Lawn - $192,000 Construction of bike/pedestrian paths in Chicago -$2,480,000 Upgrading streets in Stickney Township - $2,206,400 Construction of a bike path, parking facility, and related transportation enhancement projects in North Riverside - $1,920,000 Upgrading roads around the Brookfield Zoo - $1,200,000 Construction of the Leon Pass overpass in Hodgkins - $768,000 Upgrading of roads in Summit -$768,000 Construction of a bike/pedestrian path and related facilities in Spring Rock Park in Western Springs -$576,000 Street improvements in Merrionette Park -$480,000 Street improvements in Westchester - $224,000 Streetscaping onRidgeland Avenue, Oak Park Avenue, and 26th Street in Berwyn - $768,000 (July 28, 2005) ###
07.28.2005	Lipinski Opposes Special Interests Exemptions in Extreme Medical Malpractice Bill Supports Substantive, Practical Compromise Legislation To Control Rising Medical Malpractice Insurance Premiums WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski today criticized powerful special interests, in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, and the House Rules Committee for obstructing consideration of any amendments to a major medical liability reform bill. Congressman Lipinski and a number of his colleagues were denied the opportunity to offer constructive changes that would have incorporated common-sense provisions both Republicans and Democrats could support. "I am extremely disappointed that no amendments were afforded an up or down vote, including mine which would have reduced the number of malpractice cases in court by facilitating the use of mediation," said Congressman Lipinski on the House floor during debate. "A practical approach to malpractice reform is long overdue, and the amendments offered could have made this a good bipartisan bill for improving patient access and care." The medical liability reform bill that passed the House today has been voted on twice before, but stalled both times in the Senate. Unfortunately, much of this bill is a nod to special interests, specifically a provision providing a liability waiver for manufacturers of prescription drugs and medical devices, if their drug or device is approved by the FDA. Essentially, as long as a drug goes through the regular FDA approval process, it's shielded from any form of liability. No other industry gets this type of liability protection just for going through a government approval process. The bill does not go far enough to address the medical liability problem in other ways too. It proposes damage caps that are too low to sufficiently compensate harmed patients who are truly injured by malpractice and focuses solely on limiting patients' access to courts instead of promoting mediation programs and alternative measures of dispute resolution. Mediation has proven to be a cost-effective and timely way to settle malpractice cases and Congressman Lipinski's amendment would have provided grants to set up mediation programs and to train medical malpractice mediators. "Our health care system is in real crisis and Congress can no longer afford to play politics with the medical malpractice insurance debate," said Congressman Lipinski. "If moderate Members of Congress could meet halfway on this issue and agree on a substantive, common sense bill, our health care system would be on the road to recovery." Congressman Lipinski joined Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA), Congressmen Jim Moran (D-VA), and C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger (D-MD) in introducing H.R. 3378, a comprehensive, practical medical liability reform bill last week. This legislation would: protect patient rights, penalize unwarranted litigation, promote mediation and other litigation alternatives, hold insurers accountable for rate increases and savings, reduce medical errors, hold doctors accountable, and exclude medical devices and pharmaceuticals from damage caps. "In Illinois we particularly understand the need for medical malpractice reform with many communities having experienced a significant the loss of physicians, especially those in the OB/GYN and neurosurgery specialties," Lipinski said. "H.R. 3378 provides the vehicle for a comprehensive solution for the entire nation. It will improve the availability, cost, and quality of health care for all Americans." (July 28, 2005) ###
07.27.2005	LIPINSKI OPPOSES CENTRAL AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (CAFTA) Urges Fair Trade Policy That Protects American Workers WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Dan Lipinski voted against the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) citing concerns about the loss of American jobs, poor labor standards, and lax environmental protections. The U.S. House of Representatives approved CAFTA on a 217-215 vote. "Despite promises by proponents of various trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the Chinese Permanent Normal Trade Relations pact (PNTR), these deals have not produced American job growth," said Rep. Lipinski. "In fact, since entering NAFTA, the U.S. has lost nearly 2.5 million manufacturing jobs, including 47,000 here in Illinois alone." CAFTA would implement a trade agreement between the United States., the Dominican Republic, and five Central American nations: Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. CAFTA would likely exacerbate our already record trade deficit. Last year, the United States had an unprecedented $617 billion global trade deficit. The U.S. already runs a trade deficit of $2 billion with the six CAFTA nations, and CAFTA most certainly has the potential to increase that. In addition, CAFTA does not require these countries to improve their environmental laws to meet any minimum standards, which are critical to improving water systems and protecting public health in these trading countries. "Undoubtedly, trade is an important component of our national economy, and I am a strong proponent of fair trade laws," Congressman Lipinski said. "I believe we should negotiate these trade deals to better protect American jobs, the environment, and fair labor standards, and to encourage stronger economic growth." (July 27, 2005) ###
07.22.2005	REP. DAN LIPINSKI PROPOSES COMPREHENSIVE, COMMON SENSE COMPROMISE TO MEDICAL MALPRACTICE REFORM WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL03) today joined Brian Baird (WA03), James Moran (VA08), and C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger (MD02) in introducing a comprehensive, common sense compromise to medical malpractice reform. HR 3378 will: constrain medical liability insurance costs that have forced many quality doctors to abandon medicine; curb meritless lawsuits that drive insurance and health care costs up; protect the rights of patients with legitimate malpractice claims; and improve the overall quality of health care by implementing improved measures for medical error reporting. "Unfortunately, medical malpractice lawsuits tend to be a legal game between powerful special interests rather than a mechanism for average citizens to seek and receive just compensation for real pain and suffering," Rep. Lipinski said. "Our bill ensures that victims of malpractice can obtain justice without undermining the world's best health care system." The comprehensive medical malpractice reform bill includes these key provisions: -Setting reasonable, inflation-adjusted limits on non-economic malpractice damages; -Excluding medical devices and pharmaceuticals from the cap on non-economic damages; -Providing mediation alternatives to litigation; -Penalizing meritless lawsuits and the repeated filing of unfounded litigation -Improving state medical boards and establishing best practice standards -Offering legal protections for the good faith reporting, investigation, and enforcement of medical errors; -Establishing voluntary, confidential reporting procedures for medical personnel, like those used by the FAA; -Requiring the medical liability industry to justify rate increases and pass savings along to consumers; -Providing liability protection for practitioners and institutions mandated to treat indigent patients. "It is time for a practical solution to medical malpractice," said Congressman Lipinski. "This legislation provides solid protections for patients and competent, caring physicians, such as establishing national guidelines for State Medical Disciplinary Boards and promoting mediation programs that will expedite compensation to victims and allow doctors to offer a sincere apology without fear that it could be used against them in court. "In Illinois we particularly understand the need for medical malpractice reform with many communities having experienced a significant the loss of physicians, especially those in the OB/GYN and neurosurgery specialties. This bill provides the vehicle for a comprehensive solution for the entire nation. It will improve the availability, cost, and quality of health care for all Americans." The bill has been referred to House Energy and Commerce and Judiciary Committees. (July 22, 2005) ###
07.22.2005	Rep. Lipinski Supports Giving Law Enforcement Tools to Fight Terrorism WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL03) voted to reauthorize the Patriot Act, giving American law enforcement and intelligence authorities the tools they need to continue fighting terrorist threats against our country. The legislation extends several expiring provisions of the original law, while adding provisions that will protect civil liberties. "We live in an age where we must be vigilant against terrorist threats to our livelihood, as the recent tragic bombings in London have reminded us," Lipinski said. "Congress has acted today to send a message to terrorists who would plot against us: we will use every legitimate means available to fight this battle and keep our country strong and safe from further attacks." The original Patriot Act was enacted after the terrorist attacks of 9/11 in order to remove the wall that prevented our law enforcement and intelligence communities from effectively sharing information for fighting terrorism. "We all agree that we must give our government the tools necessary to catch terrorists before they can act again," Lipinski said. "Thanks to the Patriot Act, and the hard work of many people, our country has not suffered another attack since September 11." However, Rep. Lipinski also stressed the importance of protecting the rights and liberties of individuals against potential abuses of power. The House sought to balance the goals of fighting terrorism and preserving civil liberties. "While we must do everything we can to protect Americans from terrorism, it has to be done in a way that protects basic constitutional rights." Congressman Lipinski voted in favor of adding a number of safeguards to the bill, such as placing more strict requirements on the use of roving wiretaps and "sneak and peek" searches, allowing the recipient of a national security letter to consult with an attorney and challenge the letter in court, and requiring that requests for library or bookstore records be personally approved by the FBI director. Last month, Congressman Lipinski voted to bar the Justice Department from using appropriated funds to search library and bookstore records under Section 215 of the Patriot Act without a traditional search warrant. (July 22, 2005) ###
07.07.2005	Congressman Lipinski Condemns Terrorist Bombings in London WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Dan Lipinski released the following statement today on the terror attack in London: "I extend my support, thoughts, and prayers for the people of London, particularly the families and friends of those whose lives were taken by these horrific and senseless terrorist attacks. Now is the time for all Americans to stand with our friends in the United Kingdom, the way they have stood with us in our times of need. Today's attack is a jarring reminder that we must always remain vigilant in defending our homeland. The actions of cowards against innocent people will not prevail; our resolve to fight terrorism around the world will not be deterred, and these bombings will only serve to unite all those who oppose terror." (July 7, 2005) ###
07.06.2005	Congressman Lipinski Rides in Charitable Bike Tour CHICAGO, IL - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) participated in the 2005 Multiple Sclerosis Tour de Farms the weekended of June 25, 2005. Congressman Lipinski rode 100 miles through rural northern Illinois as part of a seven-person team that raised $6,000 to research new treatments for the debilitating disease. The Tour de Farms raised more than $1,000,000 total. "Multiple Sclerosis is a painful, life-altering illness, and I was just glad to do what I could to help," said Rep. Lipinski. "This is the fourth time I have had the opportunity to participate in the Illinois MS ride, and it is always a great event." Multiple Sclerosis attacks the central nervous system, disrupting the ability of the nerves to transmit signals from the brain. It mostly affects young adults. Donations to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, which sponsored the event, can be made by visiting their website at nationalmssociety.org. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joins Victor Pirsoul and Maureen Howard of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society board before he starts a 100-mile ride for the MS Tour de Farms. (July 6, 2005) ###
07.04.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Celebrates Independence Day Local Events in the District WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) joined the fun and festivities at Independence Day celebrations across the western suburbs, including parades in Berwyn, Westchester, Lyons (lyons2) and North Riverside. (NR2) Congressman Lipinski waves onto the crowd at the Village of Lyons Independence Day celebration. Congressman Lipinski (in Jeep) discusses the parade route with North Riverside Mayor Richard Scheck (in cart). After the parade, the Congressman met with the Grand Marshal, Tech. Sgt. John G. Riccio of the U.S. Air Force, who is on active duty and recently returned from Iraq. (NR7) Rep. Lipinski also congratulated players and coaches of the Preferred Plumbing Red Sox championship baseball squad, who also marched in the parade. (July 4, 2005) ###
06.28.2005	Congressman Lipinski Speaks on H.R. 2048 House Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment & Government Programs WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski released to following statement at the Subcommittee Hearing on H.R. 2048, the Motor Vehicle Owners' Right to Repair Act of 2005: Thank you Madam Chairman. As we advance into the 21st century - so do our cars and trucks. Today's vehicles continue to get more and more sophisticated - with technological advances such as computerized navigation and ignition systems. In recent years there has been a push to make our cars more resilient, powerful and environmentally sound. Along with today's automotive advancements, comes a need for advanced knowledge of repair and service. There is an obvious gap here - the types of repair manuals that may have sufficed a decade ago simply do not provide the information necessary to repair newer, more complex vehicles. Today's repair shops need to know how to check (1) settings, (2) component schematics, and (3) equipment interfaces - something they simply aren't able to get from repair manuals. As vehicles become more complex, the lack of readily accessible repair information would have undesirable consequences. With fewer shops available to do a repair, we have to expect increased costs for the car owner. Given the expenses that already exist with today's vehicles - consumers do not need additional repair costs. It is important that consumers have options when it comes to getting their cars repaired - and that they can rely on their local repair shops to get the job done. Many people turn to their long time neighborhood mechanics - the ones they have come to trust - who are usually small business owners. But how do mechanics understand the mechanical, technical, and computer systems on each car model? Currently in place is a voluntary system for sharing information between automobile manufacturers and service shops. This system is designed to allow web-based access to information on how to repair and service vehicles from over 30 different brands. But there are questions about how well this voluntary system works. Today's hearing will examine whether there is a problem, and to what extent it persists. We will specifically look at one possible solution - H.R. 2048, The Right to Repair Act - which has been introduced by Mr. Barton, chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee. I applaud Mr. Barton for his work on this issue and I look forward to hearing his testimony. H.R. 2048 creates a system that would allow access - via the Internet - to repair information and service training for all parts of a vehicle. This would be administered and enforced by the FTC. In addition, the bill creates a legal duty to immediately provide a vehicle owner, or repair shop of the owner's choosing, with all the necessary information to diagnose or repair the vehicle. This sounds like a reasonable approach - but we must evaluate all of its possible implications. As the committee proceeds today to examine this issue, it is important to ensure that whatever solution is found does not have unintended negative consequences. While working to solve one problem we need to guard against creating additional ones through our actions. Clearly, there are small businesses on both sides of this issue - whether it is the independent repair shop or the local dealership - all of whom would be impacted by the Right to Repair bill. It is very important that we carefully examine the issue at hand and evaluate the necessity for these types of changes. The automotive service and repair issue involves many players - repair shops, dealerships and consumers - and we need to make sure that any changes are fair and balanced for all those involved. We want to have a system that provides information, doesn't give one entity an advantage over the other, and in the end gives the consumer the best possible deal. This is an interesting and unique topic, and I look forward to hearing the testimony of today's witnesses and to the discussion. Thank you. (June 28, 2005) ###
06.28.2005	Lipinski Calls for a Hydrogen Fuel Economy WASHINGTON, DC - In recognition of the upcoming Independence Day Holiday, the U.S. House of Representatives Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus hosted the "Race to End Energy Dependence Day," as the United States begins to move toward using more alternative fuels. Hydrogen's only bi-product is water, making it a safe, reliable, abundant and an environmentally friendly fuel. "I am proud to join my colleagues in the Hydrogen & Fuel Cell Caucus in promoting energy independence and pursuing a hydrogen fuel economy, "said Congressman Lipinski. The event featured a mock hydrogen fueling station, hydrogen-powered motorcycles, a minivan by General Motors and a military style hydrogen truck. "These hydrogen vehicles demonstrate that we have the technology right now to move forward with the infrastructure needed for renewable fuels." Congressman Lipinski stated, "As prices continue to rise and the supply of oil declines, we must become less dependent on other countries to meet our energy needs. It's time for America to determine its own energy future." (June 28, 2005) ###
06.23.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Works on Solutions to Save High Quality American Jobs WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski participated in a bipartisan discussion hosted by the House Science Committee focusing on the realities facing the science and technology industry and our U.S. workers. "It is appalling that U.S. Federal research and development funding over the last fifteen years has seen resounding declines," commented Rep. Lipinski. "We need to figure out a practical solution for those in our science and engineering fields who have lost their jobs due to outsourcing." Expert panelists from industry and academia addressed current challenges regarding the continued loss of science and technology jobs to overseas locations. The loss of domestic science and technology jobs has not been seriously addressed, and the consequences of doing nothing could be profound. It is difficult to determine how many jobs have actually been lost in recent years because there is a lack of sufficient or accurate data on the problem. For example, the U.S. Labor Department reported as part of a new survey that 4,633 jobs moved overseas during the first three months of 2004. Another report by the National Association of Software and Service Companies suggests that outsourcing from the U.S. is creating huge numbers of jobs in India - around 200,000 at the end of May last year. Even with the lack of consistent data, offshoring's effect on U.S. education and educational institutions is evident. Rep. Lipinski went on to say, "In order for the U.S. to maintain its leadership in science and technology, not only must we find a way to attract a more diversified student population, but we must expand the innovative programs offered at our academic institutions." "U.S. students, workers and industries deserve solutions that sustain technological leadership and promote job creation," concluded Congressman Lipinski. (June 23, 2005) ###
06.22.2005	Congressman Lipinski Votes to Protect the American Flag WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (Il-03) said today that he cherishes the First Amendment as the bedrock of the American way of life and his support of protecting the Flag in the Constitution does not diminish the power of Freedom of Speech. "I supported a Constitutional Amendment to protect the Flag because desecrating it is not a form of speech," Congressman Lipinski said. "From the Founding Fathers through more modern legal minds like Supreme Court Justices John Paul Stevens and Hugo Black, many have recognized our Flag's unique place as worthy of protection ‘from acts of desecration and disgrace.'" Congressman Lipinski's support of the Flag Amendment was crystallized after hosting a Veterans' Town Hall meeting earlier this month. "I met with more than 100 veterans from across the District who have served in every major conflict from World War II onward, including two young men who recently returned from combat in Iraq, Army Lt. Eduardo Alvarez and Marine Cpl. Eric Shaw Pittman," Congressman Lipinski said. "I find it difficult to accept that the Flag these brave Americans fought under and risked their lives for is merely a symbol that can be destroyed like a stage prop for dramatic affect during a protest." Congressman Lipinski urged the United States Senate to take up the Amendment quickly, pass it and send it to state legislatures for ratification. (June 22, 2005) ###
06.21.2005	Lipinski Addresses the Rights of American Workers Subcommittee on Workforce Empowerment and Government Programs Hearing on Union Salting and Small Business WASHINGTON, DC - Today, as the Ranking Member House Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs, Congressman Lipinski, made the following statement before the hearing entitled "Union Salting-Organizing Against Small Business:" STATEMENT of the Honorable Daniel Lipinski Hearing on Union Salting and Small Businesses Subcommittee on Workforce Empowerment and Government Programs House Committee on Small Business June 21, 2005 Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to thank everyone for coming today to discuss this important issue. As job creation continues to lag we see the toll it is taking on many workers; jobs are being shipped overseas, wages are being slashed, and benefits such as health care and retirement are vanishing. But we should not be looking for an underserving scapegoat for the country's economic problems. Despite the lagging economy, the American worker has never been more productive. Unfortunately, the lack of job creation is causing some to try to weaken important labor protections, rather than to focus on the real economic problems, such as rising energy and health insurance prices. And the reality is that a need does exist for unions to protect and advocate for our nation's workers. Unions ensure that working Americans earn a decent wage, and they deliver a workforce committed to economic growth. While some employers allow their workers the opportunity to unionize, there are others who construct barriers and engage in covert campaigns to intimidate and dissuade workers from learning about the benefits of union membership. Therefore, the only way for these non-union workers to find out about their rights, and the working conditions to which they are entitled, is through the practice of salting. Salting is about the empowerment of working people - it is a practice that educates workers about what a union could do for them. This practice is especially useful in industries such as construction where workers are constantly moving from one job - and one contractor - to another. Salting is the most effective way for union organizers to communicate with these workers. Unfortunately, there are a number of misconceptions surrounding salting. Salting does not disrupt the workplace - these individuals work hard to contribute to the company's overall success. And the law requires that no harm is done to the employer. While we will hear some anecdotal stories today about salting abuses, there is simply no evidence that salting hurts small businesses. Many employers incorrectly believe that salting will result in frivolous charges being filed by unions. However, this is not the case. Companies that follow the law actually benefit from salting - many times this practice uncovers massive violations of workers' rights by employers attempting to gain unfair advantages. While most employers truly want to do what is best for their employees, the reality is there are bad players trying to prohibit their workers from earning fair wages and equal benefits. That is why unions are important and salting is a vital tool. Today, as we look at H.R. 1816, it is important to pay close attention and recognize how this bill will change the current status of workers' rights. I appreciate Representative King's work, but I think we should not be stripping away rights of American workers. H.R. 1816 affects the basic right of workers to form and join unions. Simply stated, this legislation allows an employer to fire or refuse to hire workers if they seek employment in order to organize on behalf of a union. This undermines the intent of the original National Labor Relations Act, which was enacted for the purpose of protecting the right of workers to form and join unions. As recently as 1995, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled unanimously to uphold the practice of salting. We should not attempt to weaken processes that are critical in helping working families to access fair wages, health benefits, and workplace protections. By promoting workers' interests through collective bargaining, the National Labor Relations Act has been one of the most effective anti-poverty programs in our country's history. In my district, it has allowed thousands of hard working men and women to provide for their families and achieve the American dream. This proposal is a step back from that commitment. We should be standing in support of working families, not pursuing initiatives that erode their quality of life. Thank you. (June 21, 2005) ###
06.21.2005	Lipinski Votes to Amend Patriot Act and Protect Americans' Reading Records WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski joined a broad Congressional coalition last week in restoring Americans' constitutionally guaranteed right to read and access information without governmental intrusion or monitoring. With Congressman Lipinski's support, the House passed an amendment to the House Science-State-Justice Subcommittee (SSJC) appropriations bill. This amendment would bar the Department of Justice from using any of the appropriated money to search library and bookstore records under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act without a traditional search warrant. "This is a tremendous victory that restores important Constitutional rights to the American people," Lipinski said. "It is essential that we do all we can to protect Americans from terrorism, but we must do it in a way that does not undermine the basic constitutional rights that makes us a free country." Under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, federal agents have been empowered to get orders from a secret court that allows them to access, among other things, the reading records of Americans in both libraries and book-stores. Unfortunately, because these orders are granted by a secret court, the people whose records are sought had no opportunity to oppose the order. In most cases the person whose records are acquired would never know it because the law itself makes it a criminal offense for the librarian or bookseller to tell anyone about the order. Currently, seven state legislatures, 44 state library associations, and 381 cities and towns representing nearly 62 million people have passed resolutions expressing their concerns with Section 215 and other specific provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act. "Section 215 not only intrudes on Americans' Constitutional rights, but it does so unnecessarily. Government agents have and will continue to have the ability to access library and bookstore records if they have probable cause to believe they are connected to criminal activity-including terrorism," Lipinski said. "This amendment simply restores the checks and balances that protect innocent Americans under the constitution, such as search warrants and grand jury subpoenas." (June 21, 2005) ###
06.20.2005	Lipinski Calls On Chinese Lawmakers to Implement Fair Trade Policies WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski today called on Chinese lawmakers to engage in fair trade practices and reduce the trade imbalance with the United States, which hit a record level of $162 billion in 2004. "If the Chinese want to be members of the global economy, they need to open up their markets to American exports," said Congressman Lipinski. "There is no better place to begin than by addressing the problems caused by China's currency manipulation." China's policy of pegging its currency to the dollar has resulted in cheaper Chinese goods being imported into the U.S., while American exports are more expensive. Congressman Lipinski joined other U.S. lawmakers to press China on its trade practices during meetings in Washington with members of the Chinese National People's Congress. Last week during the sixth round of the U.S.-China Interparliamentary Exchange, members of Congress addressed concerns about intellectual property rights violations, widespread trade barriers, and China's pegged currency policy, along with other issues. The protection of intellectual property rights has become one of the highest priority issues in U.S.-China trade relations in recent years. "Chinese counterfeited and pirated goods are costing U.S. businesses billions of dollars in lost sales every year," Congressman Lipinski said. "Meanwhile, the Chinese government does far too little to enforce intellectual property rights." Under the terms of China's entry into the World Trade Organization, China agreed to comply with the WTO agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). However, China continues to fall far short of full compliance, with Chinese companies engaging in rampant retail piracy, illegal reproduction of software, and trademark counterfeiting. Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of HR 1498, The Chinese Currency Act of 2005, which would enable American manufacturers and workers to gain relief from this China's currency manipulation. He also cosponsors HR1575, which would impose an additional 27.5% duty on Chinese imports unless China ends its manipulation of exchange rates. Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL03) (center) confers with Congressman Cliff Stearns of Florida during discussions with members of the Chinese National People's Congress on U.S.-China trade issues in Washington on June 15, 2005. (June 20, 2005) ###
06.17.2005	Rep. Lipinski Helps Small Business Owners Get Relief from High Cost Loans WASHINGTON, DC - For small businesses that have been forced to pay exorbitant fees, a sigh of relief came through this week when an amendment to the Science, State, Justice and Commerce (SSJC) Appropriations bill successfully passed in the House of Representatives to reinstate funding for the Small Business Administration's 7(a) loan program. Congressman Dan Lipinski voted in favor of the amendment. The amendment will restore funding to the FY04 level of $79 million, despite opposition from the Administration. Funding for the loan program was eliminated last year, which caused upfront fees for loans under $150,000 to double from $1,500 to $3,000. For larger loans, fees are now as much as $50,000. Since the fee increases, the cost of the program has risen, less capital has gone into the economy, small businesses have received smaller loans, and the number of active lenders in the program has steadily declined. The amendment is designed to reverse these negative effects. Congressman Lipinski, who serves as ranking member of the Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs Subcommittee of the Small Business Committee, said "I am glad to see the House step up to support our small businesses. Access to affordable capital is essential for a growing small business. A bipartisan coalition of Members realized what was happening to this program, and acted to restore the previously cut funding." The 7(a) loan program, which provides 30 percent of all long term loans, is a proven job creator. For every $33,000 loan, one job is created. The legislation would help create an additional 500,000 jobs, and would help the program to achieve record levels of loans. "Small businesses are a major source of job creation in our country," Congressman Lipinski said. "By restoring funding to the 7(a) loan program, we can help keep costs down for the entrepreneurs who stimulate economic growth and create new jobs." (June 17, 2005) ###
06.09.2005	LIPINSKI URGES REEVALUATION OF US TRADE POLICY Cites Concerns Over Trade Imbalance and Loss of American Jobs WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives considered H.J.Res. 27, a resolution that would withdraw the approval of the United States from the agreement establishing the World Trade Organization (WTO). "I voted present on this resolution to send a message that the U.S. must reevaluate its trade policy and stop the loss of good American jobs," explained Lipinski. "I believe strongly in protecting American workers, preventing outsourcing, and establishing sound trade policy, but I could not in good conscience vote to remove the U.S. immediately from the WTO, especially knowing the serious implications of such a withdrawal on our nation's economy." In 1995, when the WTO was first established, the U.S. trade deficit was $96 billion but by last year it had skyrocketed to a staggering $617 billion and is projected to top $700 billion this year. Current trade policy has led to the export of millions of American jobs. In total, the U.S. lost 2.8 million manufacturing jobs and one million high technology positions over the last four years. "America's working families continue to have serious concerns about the role of the WTO and the displacement of our nation's jobs," stated Lipinski. "It is time we take action to reshape WTO policy and practices along with our own trade policy." The last decade has demonstrated the significant failings of the WTO and the dangerous flaws of U.S. trade policies. The massive U.S. trade deficit, and tremendous outsourcing of jobs and dislocation of workers, indicates the enormity of the problem that America continues to face and the extent to which US trade policies must be changed. "Clearly, the practices of the WTO have harmed American workers and current policy continues to enlarge our trade deficit," said Lipinski. "We can no longer idly sit back and watch American jobs be shipped overseas, worker protections lost, and wages lowered." "Fundamental change is needed," continued Lipinski. "It is critical for the development of a sound global economy that we work to amend U.S. trade policy and foster an international trade system that is equitable and sustainable." (June 9, 2005) ###
06.08.2005	Lipinski Addresses Climate Change: Science Committee Hearing on Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emmissions WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski urged U.S. businesses to further utilize technology to advance the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. "A number of scientists and academies have concluded that the climate is changing - at times at alarming rates. Fortunately, feasible approaches to reducing carbon dioxide emissions are no longer out of reach," said Lipinski. Much of the United States economy relies on energy derived from the combustion of fuels such as coal, oil, and natural gas, the by-product of which is carbon dioxide - a greenhouse gas. When all greenhouse gases are considered, the United States accounts for approximately one-fourth of current global greenhouse gas emissions annually. The House Committee on Science heard from U.S. businesses who have implemented energy efficient practices and manufacturing changes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Lipinski applauded the voluntary actions of these businesses for taking the lead even in the absence of mandatory requirements. Lipinski concluded, "The businesses we heard from today have laid the groundwork in addressing climate change. They have proven that control measures can be implemented without disrupting the economy. We must work on providing greater incentives to all U.S. businesses so they will continue to develop new environmentally-friendly technologies and implement more reductions in greenhouse gas emissions." (June 8, 2005) ###
06.03.2005	Congressman Lipinski Hosts Town Hall Meeting in Oak Lawn June 11, 2005 CHICAGO, IL- U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) will host a Town Hall meeting at 10 a.m., Saturday June 11, 2005 at J.M. Hannum Elementary School located at 9800 S. Tripp Ave. in Oak Lawn. "I invite my constituents to come to this meeting and ask questions and discuss the issues they are most concerned about," Congressman Lipinski said. "From Health Care to Education to Social Security, Congress is dealing with many important issues in this term." Congressman Lipinski's caseworkers will be at Village Hall starting a 9 a.m. to assist constituents with problems involving veterans' benefits, immigration and Social Security. More information on Congressman Lipinski's Town Hall Meeting may be obtained by calling (312) 886-0481. (June 3, 2005) ###
06.01.2005	LIPINSKI LISTENS TO VETERAN'S CONCERNS WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-03) meets with Joe Delaloye, a Past Commander of Robert E. Coulter, Jr., American Legion Post #1941, during the Congressman's recent Veterans' Town Hall Meeting at the Post in La Grange. Rep. Lipinski can assist veterans and other constituents with problems they may be having with federal government agencies. His office can be reached at (312) 886-0481 or (708) 352-0524. (June 1, 2005) ###
05.30.2005	LIPINSKI HONORS LOCAL AMERICAN SERVICEMEN & WOMEN Memorial Day Events in the Third Congressional District WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Dan Lipinski joined constituents across the Third Congressional District in honoring those who made the ultimate sacrifice in defending our Nation. In Justice, Congressman Lipinski joined Village President Mel Van Allen at a wreath laying ceremony at the village's veterans' memorial. In Beverly, the Congressman met local residents while marching in the community's Memorial Day Parade. He later spoke at a ceremony honoring Marines who recently returned from serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom (May 30, 2005) ###
05.26.2005	Lipinski Calls for End to China's Unfair Trade Practices WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski called on Congress and the Bush Administration to act quickly to end China's unfair trade practices which are destroying American manufacturing jobs. In a joint hearing of the Tax, Finance and Exports Subcommittee and the Rural Enterprises, Agriculture and Technology Subcommittee, small business owners told how currency manipulation, piracy of intellectual property, and the lack of viable labor standards in China are putting American businesses at a competitive disadvantage. "While we continue to hear about the promises of free trade, the actions of China show that when trade is not fair, American workers suffer," said Congressman Lipinski. "With the Chinese engaging in these unfair actions, including devaluing their currency by as much as 40 percent, cheap foreign imports undercut our domestic manufacturers and American products cannot compete fairly for export into China. The result is a growing trade deficit with China that hit a record of over 160 billion dollars in 2004. This has meant the loss of American jobs and the diminishment of America's vital manufacturing base." China's currency manipulation acts both as a subsidy for Chinese exports to the United States and third countries and as a hidden duty on U.S. products that would be imported into China. Congressman Lipinski is a cosponsor of HR 1498, The Chinese Currency Act of 2005, which would enable American manufacturers and workers to gain relief from this practice. Many have called on the Administration to get tough in pushing China to comply with its trading obligations as a new member of the World Trade Organization. Since granting China Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status, the United States has lost more than 2.7 million manufacturing jobs, while China has created two and a half million manufacturing jobs. Congressman Lipinski is also a cosponsor of HR 728, which withdraws PNTR status for Chinese products. "There simply is nothing normal about our so-called Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China. China's actions are destroying the American manufacturing base and American jobs. All our manufacturers need is an opportunity to compete on an even playing field and we must act now to make sure that they have that," Rep. Lipinski said. "We cannot wait until more workers have been laid off and more plants have been shut down. We must provide relief now." (May 26, 2005) ###
05.25.2005	LIPINSKI STEPS UP FOR VETERAN SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS Joint Hearing Looks at Problems of Veteran Entrepreneurs WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski called for veterans to be given more help in acquiring the resources they need to succeed as small business entrepreneurs, including access to capital, business development, technical assistance, procurement opportunities, and affordable health care. In a joint hearing of subcommittees of the Small Business Committee and the Veteran's Affairs Committee, members examined the roles of the Federal Veterans Entrepreneurship Program and the Veterans' Corporation in providing critical outreach services for veterans who own small businesses, especially service disabled veterans. "Clearly, given the sacrifice these men and women have made, and the service they have provided to our country, it only makes sense to provide our nation's veterans with the tools to get their businesses off the ground," stated Lipinski. Lipinski, the top Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs which held the hearing, would like to see a system that supports service disabled veterans in an effective, efficient manner and lends itself to the success of all veteran-owned small businesses. "As we look at the challenges before us, our ultimate goal should be to create a plan that will facilitate the success of our nation's veteran entrepreneurs," continued Lipinski. "Our veterans deserve no less." (May 25, 2005) ###
05.24.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3d) has announced his support for H.R. 376, legislation that would grant Medicare the power to negotiate with drug companies for lower prices for seniors and people with disabilities. Rep. Lipinski signed a discharge petition that would bring the Medicare's Equitable Drugs for Seniors Act to the floor for a fair up-or-down vote. "Unfortunately, the Medicare drug law that Congress passed in 2003 did absolutely nothing to actually bring down the costs of prescription drugs," Congressman Lipinski said. "Indeed, at the bidding of the big drug companies, the law actually prohibited Medicare from negotiating for lower prices. We must stand up for seniors and people with disabilities and reverse this provision - giving Medicare the ability to get the lowest possible prices for its 44 million beneficiaries." Currently, Medicare is the only entity in this country that cannot bargain for lower drug prices. The states, Fortune 500 companies, large pharmacy chains, and the Veterans' Administration all use their bargaining clout to obtain lower drug prices for the patients they represent. Medicare should have the same ability. "It is a disgrace in our country that so many seniors and people with disabilities have to choose between buying the medications their doctors have prescribed and buying their groceries," stated Rep. Lipinski "Many take their pills only every other day. Others take only one of the three or four medications their doctor has prescribed." "This legilsation would lower drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries by allowing the government to negotiate lower drug prices," said Congressman Lipinski. "It is only by enacting this legislation that we can begin to bring down drug prices and make drugs truly affordable for the millions of seniors and people with disabilities whose lives depend on them." (May 24, 2005) ###
05.18.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Joins Pace Suburban Bus In Marking Bike to Work Week LA,GRANGE, IL- Avid bicyclist U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski joined Pace Suburban Bus agency officials in demonstrating the ease of combining bicycling and public transit for commutes during Bike to Work Week, May16-20. "Biking and utilizing public transit are excellent ways to cut back on rush hour congestion, conserve energy and protect our environment," said Congressman Lipinski as he loaded his bicycle onto the swing down rack on the front of a Pace bus parked near his La Grange District Office and the La Grange Road Metra station. Congressman Lipinski was joined by Pace officials at the event, including Director Terrance Carr, Deputy Executive Director Michael Bolton and Rocky Donahue, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs, to promote Bike to Work Week. All Pace buses are equipped with bike racks. "I commend Pace for giving bicycle riders even greater mobility and flexibility in their commuting options," Congressman Lipinski said. "I look forward to working with all of our public transit agencies to obtain federal funding so they can provide the same options for bicyclists as Pace does." Bike to Work Week is sponsored by the League of American Bicyclists and other biking organizations. (May 18, 2005) ###
05.14.2005	American Legion Post No. 1941 to host Veterans' Town Hall Meeting with Congressman Dan Lipinski Wednesday June 1st CHICAGO, IL- Congressman Dan Lipinski announced he will be holding a Town Hall meeting to discuss issues impacting Third Congressional District veterans at 7:30 p.m., Wednesday, June 1st at the Robert E. Coulter American Legion Post No. 1941 in La Grange. "I am looking forward to meeting with the many veterans from across the District," Congressman Lipinski said. "As more and more service men and women return from overseas, it is critical we make veterans a national priority and work to provide better benefits and services to the nearly 25 million veterans who have given so much for our country." Although the meeting is being hosted by Post 1941, it is open to all veterans who live the Third Congressional District, regardless of membership in service organizations. "We are honored to host Congressman Lipinski and encourage all our brothers and sisters who served our country to join us in meeting with him," said Barry Cicero, Junior Vice Commander of Post 1941 Congressman Lipinski's staff will be available starting at 7 p.m. to assist veterans with specific problems with the Veterans Administration and other government agencies. Post 1941 is located at 900 S. La Grange Road. More information on Congressman Lipinski's Town Hall Meeting is available by calling (708) 354-3300 or (312) 886-0481. (May 14, 2005) ###
05.14.2005	Lipinski Honors 2005 Teachers of the Year Third Congressional District CHICAGO, IL- Today, Congressman Lipinski honored the recipients of the 2005 Teachers of Year Award for the Third Congressional District with a brunch at the Camelot Banquet Hall in Hickory Hills, IL. Fourteen Elementary School educators in the Third Congressional District were nominated for this honor by the people who know them best - school administrators, fellow teachers, parents and community leaders - and were selected as "Teachers of the Year" by Congressman Lipinski, a former educator. Pictured Below: Congressman Dan Lipinski (center) congratulates four "Teachers of the Year." The teachers included:(left to right) Melinda Zaviska, a Riverside resident who teaches at Michael Byrne School in Chicago; Denise Zielinski, a Forest Park resident who teaches at St. Frances of Rome School in Cicero; Carol Barth, who teaches at Lincoln Middle School in Berwyn; and Mike Patzelt a LaGrange Highlands resident who teaches in Willow Springs School District 108. Congressman Dan Lipinski (left) and Illinois Sen. Edward Maloney (right) congratulate three "Teachers of the Year." The teachers included:(left to right) Mary Bazel of the John H. Kinzie School in Chicago; Melinda Zaviska of the Michael Byrne School in Chicago; and Helen Moore of the George B. McClellan School in Chicago. Congressman Dan Lipinski (left) and Illinois Sen. Edward Maloney (right) congratulate five "Teachers of the Year." The teachers included:(left to right) Mike Patzelt of Willow Springs School District 108; Valerie Montelpasse of St Germaine School in Oak Lawn; Margaret Paliakas of Incarnation School in Palos Heights; Linda Colby of Finley Junior High School in Chicago Ridge; and Gail Butcher of Our Lady of Loretto School in Hometown. (May 14, 2005) ###
05.13.2005	CHICAGO, IL- Today, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) visited Dore School in Chicago. Pictured below, Congressman Lipinski discusses the Constitution, government and politics with 8th grade students at Dore School. Before his election to Congress, Rep. Lipinski taught political science and government to college students. (May 13, 2005) ###
05.11.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Announces ‘Teachers of the Year' Chicago, IL- Fourteen Elementary School educators in the Third Congressional District were named "Teachers of the Year" by Congressman Dan Lipinski. "These teachers were nominated for this honor by the people who know them best - school administrators, fellow teachers, parents and community leaders," said Congressman Lipinski, a former educator. "It was truly inspiring to read about their qualifications and dedication to their profession and their students." The 14 Teachers of the Year will be honored at a brunch at 10 a.m., Saturday, May 14 at the Camelot Banquet Hall, 8625 W. 95th Street, Hickory Hills. The honorees are: - Carol Barth - Willow Springs (Lincoln Middle School, Berwyn) - Mary Bazel - Park Ridge (Kinzie School, Chicago) - Patricia Bucko - Evergreen Park (St. Walter's School, Chicago) - MaryAnn Burica - Oak Forest (Armour School, Chicago) - Gail Butcher - Orland Park (Our Lady of Loretto, Chicago) - Linda Colby - Chicago (Finley Junior High School, Chicago Ridge) - Catherine Johnston - Chicago (St. Daniels School, Chicago) - Valgrie Montelpasse - Oak Lawn (St. Germaine School, Oak Lawn) - Helen Moore - Chicago (McClellan School, Chicago) - Sue Muleahy - Chicago (Clissold School, Chicago) - Margaret Paliakas - Chicago (Incarnation School, Chicago) - Mike Patzelt - LaGrange Highlands (Willow Springs District 108) - Melinda Zaviska - Riverside (Byrne School, Chicago) - Denise Zielinski - Forest Park (St. Frances of Rome, Cicero) (May 11, 2005) ###
05.06.2005	U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) Discusses Issues Affecting Small Businesses CHICAGO, IL- Below, U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) (center) discusses issues affecting small business at a roundtable discussion on May 6th at the Home Run Inn Restaurant in Chicago. More than 20 small business leaders from across the Third Congressional District joined Congressman Lipinski, including Steve Palmer, owner of Palmer Place Restaurant in La Grange (left), and Alvin Meroz of the Small Business Administration (right). The Congressman sits on the Committee on Small Business, and is the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs. (May 6, 2005) ###
04.29.2005	Congressman Lipinski Speaks About Celebrating Arbor Day Friday April 29, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC - "Today is Arbor Day, a time to reaffirm our promises to make the greatest positive impact on the environment by investing in our communities. Trees and forests offer healthy, sustainable environments that are treasured by all people. As they say, the best time to plant a tree was twenty years ago. With this idea in mind, I want to increase the number of people who celebrate Arbor Day and make people more aware of the need for planting trees." "It is in the federal interest to provide critical funding to help enhance our communities and neighborhoods. I have pledged my full support in funding Land & Water Conservation Programs, State Wildlife Grants and our National Park systems. With such programs, we can develop partnerships with private investors, educate the public, and conserve our natural surroundings." "Conservation funds are used to purchase and manage national wildlife refuges, parks, forests, and public lands. More importantly, Conservation funds offer matching grant programs to assist states and local communities in acquiring recreational lands and developing facilities. State Wildlife Grants support strategic conservation and investments in every state. These programs fund local recreation projects, enabling millions of Americans to hike through breath-taking scenery, bike along lakeside and river trails, and enjoy our local parks." "Outdoor sites, such as recreational parks and forests are the heart of many of our local neighborhoods, which is why federal funding for our natural resource programs is absolutely essential for the proper management and sustainability of our nation's natural heritage. Arbor Day is a great reminder of the commitments we make as a community to enhance our natural surroundings." (April 29, 2005) ###
04.22.2005	Congressman Lipinski Speaks About Celebrating Earth Day WASHINGTON, DC - "Today is Earth Day, a time to renew our efforts in protecting the environment, our children and our future. As a community we must think about how our everyday choices benefit the environment such as recycling, conserving energy, using biodegradable items and buying energy efficient appliances. "As a member of the Congressional Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Caucus, I am working toward implementing effective strategies for lowering energy costs and investing in technologies that significantly improve efficiency. Businesses and government must work together to bring innovative technologies and ideas into the marketplace. "Additionally, I have expressed my full support for funding and expansion of EPA's Energy Star programs. This voluntary program - including Energy Star Labeled Products, Energy Star Homes and Energy Star Small Businesses - helps homeowners, businesses and consumers save money by investing in energy efficiency. Energy efficient choices can save families almost a third on their yearly energy bills with further savings of greenhouse gas emissions. "With energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies, and policies that promote reliable sources of energy, we can ensure a healthy future for our communities. On Earth Day 2005, we must pledge our support to protect the environment on a daily basis. The future is in our hands." (April 22, 2005) ###
04.21.2005	Lipinski Speaks About Ostacles to Small Business Job Creation Subcommittee Hearing for Workforce, Empowerment and Government Reforms WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Lipinski made the following statement on obstacles to small business job creation this morning at his first hearing as ranking member of the Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment and Government Programs of the Small Business Committee. In the hearing, held with Chairwoman Marilyn Musgrave (R-CO), witnesses discussed regulatory burdens, health care costs, taxes, and other issues that stifle business growth and job creation: "Today small businesses face an array of challenges that hinder their ability to do what they do best - create jobs. As we have heard time and again, most of the net new jobs in this country are created by small businesses. Unfortunately, the burden of complying with unending federal regulations, the soaring cost of healthcare, and the difficulties faced in finding and retaining a skilled workforce all create significant barriers to success for our small businesses. The ability of small business owners to start up, expand, and compete in the world marketplace is diminished if they are weighed down with encumbrances that larger businesses or foreign competitors don't share. One such serious problem is the growing regulatory burden. Every witness that has testified before the Committee has put regulatory burden at or near the top of their list of impediments to the vitality of small businesses. A recent study shows that for firms with fewer than 20 employees, the annual cost of regulatory compliance is nearly $7,000 per capita. This cost is much higher than that borne by large firms; and small businesses simply do not have the manpower and resources to comply with these regulations. Recognizing this, Congress created tools such as the Regulatory Flexibility Act - RFA - which requires government agencies to analyze the impact of regulations on small business and to consider less burdensome alternatives. But despite much talk about this problem in recent years, the costs of rules and paperwork requirements have only increased for our nation's 23 million small businesses. We must do more to ensure enforcement of the RFA and related tools, so that we can achieve our goal of reducing the regulatory burden on small businesses while protecting health, safety, and fair competition. Other areas we will be hearing about today are equally daunting. The rising cost of providing health care coverage is an enormous challenge for small business owners. With less bargaining power, small firms pay even more for coverage than do large firms. Costs have risen to such an extent that it is now a major cost factor for the businesses that offer healthcare benefits. The result is that a large proportion of uninsured Americans are self-employed or work for small businesses. And without a healthcare program it is difficult to attract and retain top quality workers. Last month, the full committee heard testimony regarding a number of healthcare proposals. One plan was H.R.765 "Fair Care for the Uninsured" which I introduced with Rep. Kennedy, in order to provide a refundable tax credit for the purchase of health insurance by those who are not offered coverage by their employer. Another was H.R. 525 by Rep. Johnson and Ranking Member Velazquez which would create Association Health Plans. Another expensive task for small businesses is finding skilled labor or better still, retraining skilled workers to move from "old economy jobs" to the new economy job market. With a shortage of skilled workers, especially in the trade industries, we need to work to find solutions to this problem. These issues, and others that will be raised today, are very important to the success of our small businesses. They are not unsolvable problems, but we need to work on finding innovative solutions. And innovative thinking is something small businesses are especially good at, so I look forward to the testimony we will hear today. I would like to thank Chairman Musgrave for holding this hearing. Clearly, the issues our witnesses share with us are significant concerns for so many of our nation's small businesses today. It is important that we carefully examine all options, and identify and work on these problems to truly relieve entrepreneurs so that they can do what they do best: put Americans to work." (April 21, 2005) ###
04.14.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski leads a discussion on the topic, "What Challenges Do Small Businesses Face in Securing the Financing They Need?" during the Democratic Roundtable on Small Business Financing in Washington on April 14. Congressman Lipinski was joined in the discussion by Rep. Nydia Velazquez of New York, Ranking Democrat on the Small Business Committee, and Margot Dorfman and Terry Williams, both of the United States Women's Chamber of Commerce (not pictured). Rep. Lipinski is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Workforce Empowerment, and Government Programs. (April 14, 2005) ###
04.08.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Recognizes Area Teachers Lawmaker Seeks Nominations for His First Teacher of the Year Award Chicago, IL - Today Congressman Dan Lipinski introduced the Teacher of the Year Award. This award acknowledges area teachers for their outstanding dedication and contributions to elementary education. "We have all had a great teacher; a teacher who pushed us to do our best, who took the extra time to make sure we understood that math problem or finished our term paper," said Lipinski. "This award recognizes these achievements and shows our great appreciation for all that they do for our children." The Teacher of the Year Award is a fantastic opportunity for students and parents to show their appreciation for local teachers. School administrators, students, parents and community leaders are invited to nominate an elementary school teacher who they think most deserving of this special honor. "As an educator myself, I understand the joy and satisfaction of watching your students succeed," Congressman Lipinski stated. "It is important that we acknowledge our local teachers for their continued commitment to preparing our children for the great futures that lie ahead of them." "One great teacher can truly make a difference in the life of a child," continued Lipinski. "It is important we take the time to say thank you." Nomination forms for Teacher of the Year Award have been distributed to local schools and are also available by contacting Congressman Lipinski's Office at (312) 886-0481. (April 8, 2005) ###
04.05.2005	LIPINSKI WORKS WITH FAA TO INCREASE SAFETY AT MIDWAY WITHOUT EXPANDING AIRPORT Congressman Supports City's Plan to Install Aircraft Arrestor Beds at Ends of Runways WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski joined the City of Chicago in an effort to increase Runway Safety Areas (RSAs) at Midway Airport without expanding its current boundaries. In a request to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the City is seeking approval and funding to construct aircraft-arresting beds (EMAS) along four runways at Midway. After the tragic incident in December, Congressman Lipinski has worked extensively with the FAA and City to move this request forward. "Addressing safety should be paramount," said Lipinski. "I have met with the FAA, NTSB (National Transportation Safety Board), and Chicago Department of Aviation, and all believe adding EMAS at Midway is a step in the right direction and the most practical solution in Midway's urban setting, without the need to disrupt the surrounding neighborhood by increasing the size of the airport." The aircraft arrestor beds being installed are referred to as Engineered Material Arresting Systems (EMAS). EMAS consists of a bed of specially coated cement blocks engineered to collapse under the weight of an aircraft's landing gear. These systems have been installed at 14 airports around the country and have averted several incidents of planes overshooting smaller runway safety areas. "Addressing safety within the confines of the airport is ideal," continued Lipinski. "Installing EMAS will extend the runway safety areas, protect local residents and businesses, and meet FAA safety requirements for urban airports like Midway." "EMAS will minimize environmental impact to the neighborhood, minimize long term costs, and upgrade safety at a faster rate than airport expansion," said Lipinski. "I will continue to work with the FAA and the City of Chicago to protect airplane passengers, as well as those living, working, shopping, and attending school in the area, while not impacting the surrounding community." (April 5, 2006) ###
03.20.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Introduces the Hospital Price Disclosure Act CHICAGO - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski announced the introduction of legislation to empower heath care consumers with information - The Hospital Price Disclosure Act (H.R. 1362) "This Hospital Price Disclosure Act would make health care price information for inpatient and outpatient procedures, as well as commonly administered medications, available to consumers on the Internet," Lipinski said. By being able to compare different health care facilities on a consumer-friendly web site, Americans will have more control over and greater confidence in their health care decisions. The Hospital Price Disclosure Act would amend the Medicare regulations to mandate that hospitals regularly report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) the prices for the: 25 most commonly performed inpatient procedures; 25 most common outpatient procedures; and the 50 most frequently administered medications. HHS would then post the price information on the Internet. "As employees are spending more of their own money on health care services, they have a right to know how much different health care facilities charge for outpatient procedures," Rep. Lipinski said. "Informed consumers are a critical part of any long-term solution to address health care access and affordability. Health care decisions are just too important to be left to chance. Would anyone suggest that consumers make better purchasing decisions without price or performance comparisons? Of course not." Congressman Lipinski, who has been joined by Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC) in introducing H.R. 1362, became concerned about the issue of hospital pricing last summer after a bicycle accident put him in the hospital. "I looked closely at the bill, and I was amazed at the costs," he said. "The hospital was charging nearly $5 for a single-use packet of antibiotic ointment. Walgreen's charges little more then $6 for an entire tube of the same stuff that is 32 times larger than the hospital's packet." When consumers start comparing health care facilities on costs, the facilities will respond accordingly, driving costs down and quality up. Studies on programs like this on a state level, such as the one proposed in Illinois, demonstrate that making performance information public encourages quality improvement. "We all want more facts at our disposal when making health care decisions for ourselves and our families. This legislation will help all health care consumers make better choices about where to seek inpatient and outpatient care," Congressman Lipinski said. "Each of us expects similar disclosures from an auto repair shop; it is time to demand the same from health care providers." (March 20, 2005) ###
03.17.2005	Science Committee Passes Lipinski's Steel & Aluminum Act- Legislation Preserves Illinois Steel Jobs and Protects Environment WASHINGTON, DC - The domestic steel and aluminum industries will get help developing and implementing cost-saving and environmentally-friendly modern technology under a bill passed today by the House Science Committee. House Resolution 1158, co-sponsored by Illinois Congressman Daniel Lipinski, would reauthorize the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988. Its purpose is to authorize federal cost sharing of research whose goals are threefold: Energy-efficiency, increasing the competitiveness of U.S. industry and improving the environment. Rep. Lipinski led efforts to quickly move the bill through the Science Committee today in order to insure that the full House considers and passes the legislation early in this session. "Steel manufacturing is important in northeastern Illinois and our industry has been heavily impacted by international competition," Lipinski said. "This bill will protect valuable jobs and vital businesses in our area." "While the US steel industry is much more modern than a decade and a half ago, the pace of technology and the competition from overseas is relentless. Reauthorization of this bill is essential to preserve American jobs, to keep the customers of the U.S. steel industry strong, and to assure that our defense industry has the secure supply of domestic steel products it needs," added Rep. Lipinski. "The success of the American steel industry has a special personal significance for me," Rep. Lipinski continued. "My father-in-law was a steelworker at Bethlehem Steel in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, before his plant closed due to foreign competition. This bill will help prevent further losses of good American jobs like his by increasing the competitiveness of our domestic industry." "I'm proud to be able to play a role in advancing this bill vital to an important Illinois industry so early in this Congress," concluded Rep. Lipinski. The measure now goes to the full House of Representatives for action. (March 17, 2005) ###
03.10.2005	Congressman Lipinski Calls on Congress and the Food and Drug Administration to Investigate Prilosec Shortage WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Dan Lipinski called for a thorough investigation into the continued shortage of popular over-the-counter heartburn drug Prilosec OTC. This investigation would determine if the shortage is deliberate on the part of the drug manufacturer AstraZeneca. For over a year now, supplies of Prilosec OTC have fallen far short of demand. AstraZeneca, the British drug company that owns the rights to Prilosec OTC, and their marketing partner, Procter & Gamble, claim to have merely underestimated demand for the drug. While the shortage has been hurting consumers, it has not financially hurt AstraZeneca. In fact, the shortage has increased sales of Nexium, a far more expensive prescription heartburn drug that AstraZeneca also sells. "It is outrageous to think that consumers who want a reliable supply of Prilosec OTC are not able to get it," said Lipinski. "Instead, they are forced to get a prescription for a drug that is essentially the same, but that costs five times as much." Congressman Lipinski sent a letter today to Congressman Joe Barton (R-TX), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, calling for oversight hearings into the shortage of Prilosec OTC. A second letter has been sent to the FDA seeking an investigation into the shortage. "Through hearings and an investigation we should be able to determine whether the shortage is an intentional result of the direct or indirect actions of AstraZeneca," said Lipinski. "This shortage demonstrates the need for more effective oversight and competition in the market, not just for over-the-counter heartburn medication, but for all pharmaceuticals." (March 10, 2005) ###
03.02.2005	LIPINSKI URGES HELP FOR THE UNINSURED Lipinski Statement on Fair Care for the Uninsured Act WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Daniel Lipinski, a member of the House Committee on Small Business, today gave the following statement during a hearing on prescriptions for health care solutions: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2003, 45 million Americans had no health insurance, an increase of 1.4 million people compared to 2002, and a continuation of recent trends. Of these 45 million, more than 80 percent hold jobs and work year-round, mostly in small businesses. The problem is that they are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid, but too poor to buy health insurance on their own, if their employer does not provide it. Congressman Mark Kennedy and I have introduced H.R. 756, the Fair Care for the Uninsured Act, which would provide greater equity, access, portability, and choice for those who are left behind in today's system. It will also create a marketplace where individuals and families can choose a plan that best meets their needs. The Fair Care for the Uninsured Act of 2005 would create a new tax credit for the purchase of private health insurance, specifically for uninsured workers who do not have access to an employer-based health plan. This way insurance will become more affordable, more people will become insured and consumers will have more choice and control. The tax credit would be $1,000 for an individual or up to $3,000 per family. Giving more individuals an opportunity to purchase health insurance is not only beneficial to them, but it is better for insured Americans as well. Families who cannot afford health insurance often have no other health care option than the hospital emergency room. The cost of an emergency visit is 3-4 times more expensive than the cost of a regular office visit and when the uninsured turn up in the emergency room, they usually cannot pay for the care they receive. As a diabetic, I know the importance of utilizing preventive services and getting proper treatment for even minor problems. Unfortunately, most uninsured people delay care for minor problems until they become major ones. In fact, uninsured diabetics are up to 11 times more likely than their insured counterparts to require emergency hospitalization that could have been avoided with proper medication. Ultimately, these costs are paid by taxpayers in the form of higher taxes and paid by the insured in the form of higher premiums. By making health care more affordable for uninsured Americans, we are making it more affordable for everyone. Additionally, a lack of access to affordable health insurance disproportionately affects America's large and growing Hispanic community. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, over one third, or 34.2 percent of Hispanics were uninsured, compared to only 12 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Only 38 percent of Hispanics working in small-to-medium size companies have health insurance compared to 63 percent for white workers. Most Hispanic workers are heavily concentrated in the service industry and in small businesses, working for firms that do not or cannot offer them health insurance coverage, therefore, they are disproportionately found outside the normal channels of health insurance in this country. For these hard working Americans, Fair Care will make insurance more affordable and help alleviate their fears of a medical crisis. Some might argue that this legislation interferes with the employer-based health care system. However, under Fair Care, only persons who do not have access to workplace health coverage qualify for the tax credit. Furthermore, the legislation includes worker protections requiring employers to continue their health plans during the first five years after enactment. H.R. 765 recognizes the importance of the health insurance Safety Nets that already exist in 32 states, such as the CHIP plan in Illinois, for those who are otherwise uninsurable. Fair Care builds upon the success of these programs for older, less healthy Americans by expanding them to all fifty states. It's time to do something concrete to improve Americans' access to health care and Fair Care is a common sense, bipartisan piece of legislation, that would enable more Americans access to affordable health insurance. I would like to thank the Chairman for the opportunity to speak on this legislation, and I look forward to hearing the testimony of our witnesses regarding their ideas for addressing our crisis in health care." (March 2, 2005) ###
02.16.2005	Lipinski Stands Up for Small Businesses Facing Budget Cuts WASHINGTON, DC - Responding to the Bush Administration's proposed budget, Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3rd) expressed his support for small businesses hurt by drastic program cuts. "I understand the need for fiscal discipline during this time of budget deficits," Lipinski said, "however, these cuts fall disproportionately on the back of our small business owners and their employees." Small businesses represent over 99 percent of all U.S. employers, and employ over half of the private work force. "After our nation's small businesses have weathered a recession, we should be supporting them, not gutting the programs designed to help them," Rep. Lipinski said. The administration's FY06 budget proposal makes dramatic cuts to important small business programs across many government agencies, with some programs being completely terminated. The Small Business Administration is one of the hardest-hit agencies in the entire federal government, with cuts or termination of nine of the top 25 SBA programs. Congressman Lipinski pledged to fight for essential program funds. "Small businesses are the foundation of our economy," he said. "I want to see our government stand behind programs that foster entrepreneurship, help small firms to find accessible and affordable capital, and keep our small business economy strong and vibrant in the increasingly competitive global economy. The administration's proposed cuts are not acceptable, and I will work to restore the funding needed to support small businesses." Lipinski serves on the House Committee on Small Business, where he is the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs. (February 16, 2005) ###
02.16.2005	Lipinski Announces Introduction of Legislation to Help the Uninsured Congressman Dan Lipinski Unveils Fair Care with Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers at Press Conference Today WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL) joined Congressman Mark Kennedy (R-MN) to unveil legislation that would help millions of Americans, who are currently without health insurance, obtain coverage for themselves and their families. "Uninsured Americans face a crisis that threatens not only their good health, but their financial stability as well," said Lipinski. "More than 45 million Americans - a greater number than the combined populations of Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio and Minnesota - do not have any health insurance." In 2003, 1.4 million more people lost their insurance as compared to 2002, a troubling continuation of recent trends. Many of these people are uninsured because their employer does not offer health coverage and they lack access to a government health insurance program. Others have lost their jobs and their medical benefits as well. "It is time for Congress to act to lower the number of uninsured Americans and alleviate their fears of a medical crisis," Congressman Lipinski said. "The Fair Care for the Uninsured Act of 2005 would do just that by creating a tax credit for the purchase of private health insurance." Fair Care creates a fully refundable tax credit of $1,000 for an individual or up to $3,000 per family to buy health insurance. Not only does Fair Care help the uninsured acquire health insurance, but it also empowers recipients to choose the health insurance plan that's right for them. Giving more individuals an opportunity to purchase health insurance is not only beneficial to them, but it is better for insured Americans as well. Families who cannot afford health insurance often have no other health care option than the hospital emergency room. The cost of an emergency visit is 3-4 times more expensive than the cost of a regular office visit and when the uninsured turn up in the emergency room, they usually cannot pay for the care they receive. "As a diabetic, I know the importance of utilizing preventive services and getting proper treatment for even minor problems," Congressman Lipinski said. "Unfortunately, most uninsured people delay care for minor problems until they become major ones. In fact, uninsured diabetics are up to eleven times more likely than their insured counterparts to require emergency hospitalization that could have been avoided with proper medication. Ultimately, these costs are paid by taxpayers in the form of higher taxes and the insured in the form of higher premiums. By making health care more affordable for uninsured Americans, we are making it more affordable for everyone." Some critics have argued that Fair Care interferes with the employer-based health care system. However, under Fair Care, only persons who do not have access to workplace health coverage qualify for the tax credit. Furthermore, the legislation includes worker protections requiring employers to continue their health plans during the first five years after enactment. H.R. 765 recognizes the importance of the health insurance Safety Nets that already exist in 32 states, such as the Comprehensive Health Insurance Plan (CHIP) in Illinois, for those who are otherwise uninsurable. Fair Care builds upon the success of these programs for older, less healthy Americans by expanding them to all fifty states. "It's time to do something concrete to improve Americans' access to health care. We cannot afford to wait for the number of uninsured to rise again. Therefore, I call on my colleagues to support this common sense, bipartisan legislation and work to lower the number of uninsured Americans," Congressman Lipinski concluded. (Feburary 16, 2005) ###
02.09.2005	Lipinski Co-Sponsors Bill To Halt The Loss Of U.S. Jobs To China WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Dan Lipinski called for the repeal of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with China, by joining his colleagues in introducing federal legislation. In the four years since the passage of PNTR with China, the U.S. trade deficit with China has escalated. The 2004 U.S. trade deficit with China is estimated to be 160 billion dollars. The legislation introduced today would impose firm penalties on Chinese products entering the United States, until the United States Congress the ability to instead re-negotiate China's trade status on an annual basis. "There simply is nothing normal about our so-called Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China. With China we have a trade deficit that's larger than we have ever had with any country," Rep. Lipinski said. Since granting China PNTR status, the United States has lost more than 2.7 million manufacturing jobs, while China has created two and a half million manufacturing jobs. "In addition to losing manufacturing jobs to China, we are now starting to lose high-tech jobs. American economic policy should not only be about profit, but should be about American workers as well," stated Lipinski. The average factory wage in China is 40 cents per hour, which is one fortieth what U.S. factory workers are paid. In addition, computer network equipment production workers are paid $1 an hour in China and $12 an hour in Illinois. "Sadly, American workers cannot compete against Chinese workers who are paid meager wages. Not only does PNTR harm American high-tech and manufacturing jobs and wages, but it severely exploits the Chinese workers. The status quo cannot continue. We must put an end to PNTR and stand up for American workers." (February 9, 2005) ###
02.01.2005	Congressman Dan Lipinski Applauds Catholic Schools Week Lipinski Cosponsors Resolution Recognizing Catholic Education WASHINGTON, DC - Today U.S. Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL- 3 rd) joined his colleagues in cosponsoring H.Res. 23, Honoring the Contributions of Catholic Schools. Congressman Lipinski celebrated Catholic Schools Week by acknowledging American Catholic schools and the top-quality, values-added education they provide. Started in 1974, Catholic Schools Week recognizes the impact of Catholic schools in communities across the country and their continued reputation for excellence in providing strong academic and moral education. "As a product of a Catholic education in my own community, I understand how important Catholic schools are in providing a spiritual, moral and intellectual foundation for students," stated Congressman Lipinski. "In the Chicago area alone, more than 105,000 young people are preparing for tomorrow at 276 Catholic elementary and high schools." While speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congressman Lipinski recalled his experience growing up in the Catholic School system. "I have fond memories of my teachers who provided me with the fundamentals of a good education that laid the groundwork for future academic achievements. But just as important, they instilled in me the belief that I should use my God-given abilities to contribute to society," said Lipinski. "In doing this they provided me with the inspiration for a career as an educator and as a public servant, just as the have inspired countless other millions of Americans to contribute to their country." Lipinski continued, "Catholic schools not only work to encourage religious faith in students, but they also have faith that every student is endowed with God-given value, has something important to contribute to society, and deserves every opportunity to grow intellectually, physically, and spiritually." "As we honor Catholic Schools we need to especially pay tribute to the more than 163,000 Catholic school teachers nationwide," praised Lipinski. "These dedicated sisters, priests, brothers, and lay teachers are the backbone of Catholic education. They sacrifice so much personally in order to provide a top-notch education that serves our children very well in preparing them for the future." Lastly, Congressman Lipinski acknowledged the many activities going on throughout the district during Catholic Schools Week. At Saint Symphorosa and Saint Francis Xavier, for example, schools have worked hard to plan events such as Vocation appreciation, community ice cream socials, special liturgies, and Teacher and Student Appreciation. These activities honor teachers, students, and parents-all of whom make great contributions to the integrity and values of Catholic education. (February 1, 2005) ###
01.06.2005	Debate Initiated on the Irregularities in Voting Standards WASHINGTON, DC - Today, on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, debate was initiated on the irregularities in voting standards and procedures during the 2004 elections, specifically in the state of Ohio . President Bush won the state by 118,000 votes and the national contest by over three million votes. However, continuing reports of voter irregularities and intimidation have raised concerns on the reliability of our electoral system. "It is crucial that we continue to hold respect for our nation's democracy and our electoral process. Therefore, it is important to ensure that there is voter fairness, uniform voting procedures and standards, and that our election laws are strictly and justly enforced," stated Lipinski. This afternoon, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 262 to 32 denying the objection to invalidate Ohio 's votes. "In the 109th Congress, I plan to examine ways to protect voter rights in this country and strengthen the integrity and credibility of the electoral process in this country. However, I do not believe the current approach to this problem is the appropriate response or the way to carefully and fully address the important issue of election integrity, "added Lipinski (January 6, 2005) ###
01.04.2005	Dan Lipinski sworn in as Third District Congressman WASHINGTON, DC - Dan Lipinski became Illinois' newest U.S. Representative today when he was sworn in to the 109th Congress. "I am honored and humbled to be a member of Congress, where Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy once served our country," said Congressman Lipinski. " I believe the greatness of these leaders and all those who served before us will inspire this Congress in addressing the issues that face our nation." Rep. Lipinski was a college professor who taught and wrote extensively about the inner workings of Congress before joining the legislature. "Teaching young people about Congress and our system of government was an experience I will always cherish, but joining the greatest legislative body in the world is an incomparable feeling," the Congressman said. Congressman Lipinski's priorities include: Protecting American jobs Improving healthcare affordability Expanding educational opportunities Defending Social Security and Medicare Guarding our families' safety and security Securing federal funding for local projects. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to help secure the American dream for not only my constituents, but all Americans," Congressman Lipinski said. (January 4, 2005) ###
