04.18.2019	Hice Congratulates Columbia County Student Headed to U.S. Naval Academy L to R: (Front Row) Mrs. Wendy Dygert, Justin Dygert, & Congressman Hice; (Back Row) Greenbrier High School Administrators Mr. Kevin Williams, Mrs. Lisa Guilbeau, Mr. Brian Smith, Principal Carla Shelton, Dr. Holly Barnes, & Mr. Michael Jones Evans, GA – On Wednesday, April 17, 2019, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) hosted a signing ceremony for Justin Dygert, whom he nominated for a prestigious appointment to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Justin, the son of Jeffrey and Wendy Dygert, is a senior at Greenbrier High School. Each year, Hice nominates candidates for appointments to the United States Air Force, Naval, Military, and Merchant Marine academies. These institutions prepare college-age Americans to be officers of the United States uniformed services. ###
04.15.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in partnership with Monroe Downtown and the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts, today announced that he will host the 2019 Congressional Art Competition student celebration on Saturday, April 27th. The event will begin at 10:00 a.m. and include an artwork scavenger hunt at the Monroe Art Guild, located at 205 South Broad Street. Those who complete the hunt will be entered into a drawing for prizes. During the event, Congressman Hice will announce the winner of this year’s contest while featuring two of the state’s most celebrated artists, Lucy and Jace McTier. “Our Congressional Art Competition truly is a community celebration, bringing together students and teachers from across the district, local residents, and for the first time, some very special guests,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m excited to feature McTier Art and the gifted mother-son duo, Lucy and Jace McTier. The McTiers’ paintings and portraits have been showcased around the world in personal collections, exhibits, and even the White House, and I’m proud to introduce this inspirational pair to our young, aspiring artists.” The first-place winner will receive a trip to Washington, D.C. and the honor of having his or her artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year. While artists from the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts will decide who receives this top distinction, Georgia’s residents will determine the recipient of the People’s Choice Award. Visit Congressman Hice’s Facebook page to view the entries and cast your vote starting on Thursday, April 18th. What: 2019 Congressional Art Competition Celebration Who: Congressman Jody Hice, 10th District students & teachers, Lucy and Jace McTier, and local residents When: Saturday, April 27, 2019 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Where: Monroe Art Guild 205 South Broad Street Monroe, GA To learn more about the McTier’s craftsmanship, visit Mctierart.com. ###
04.09.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” on Tuesday, April 16th at TradeWind Coffee Co. in Dacula. Residents from Gwinnett County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 9:30 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. to enjoy a hot cup of coffee with Congressman Hice while discussing our Nation’s most pressing topics. “There’s nothing better than leaving the DC swamp behind and returning home to Georgia where I can hear real issues from real people who have real solutions for America,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why I enjoy hosting community coffees, which is a meaningful way for me to learn your opinion and talk about the values that are close to your heart.” Tuesday, April 16, 2019 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 9:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. TradeWind Coffee Co. 2300 Liam Ave NE, Suite 200 Dacula, GA 30019 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also answer questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about this upcoming “Coffee with Your Congressman” event, residents may call Congressman Hice’s office in Monroe at (770) 207-1776. ###
04.08.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that his staff will host three Mobile Office Hours for 10th District residents during the month of April. His constituent services representatives will set up shop at the Taliaferro County Senior Center and the Warren County Community Service Building on April 23rd and Buckhead Fire Station #4 on April 30th. These events provide residents with easy access to his knowledgeable staff to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “My staff and I are committed to serving the people of the 10th District of Georgia,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why our team travels across the district to meet with constituents and assist them with federal issues in their own communities. We’ve helped Georgians fix issues with Social Security, Veterans Affairs, the IRS, immigration, Medicare, and more. For constituents who can’t visit my district offices, these Mobile Office Hours offer a more convenient way to seek help with federal casework.” To meet with a constituent services representative on an individual or family basis, residents may stop by one of the following locations (appointments are not required): Taliaferro County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Tuesday, April 23rd 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Taliaferro County Senior Center 119 Commerce Street Crawfordville, GA 30631 Warren County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Tuesday, April 23rd 1:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Community Service Building 48 Warren Street Warrenton, GA 30828 Morgan County Tuesday, April 30th 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Buckhead Fire Station #4 4741 Buckhead Road Buckhead, GA 30625 To receive more information or seek assistance with any federal matter, residents may call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville District Office at (478) 457-0007. ###
04.03.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in coordination with Senator Johnny Isakson and the entire Georgia Congressional Delegation, invites students to attend the annual statewide U.S. Military Service Academy Day on Saturday, April 27th at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. The event, which is the largest of its kind in the Nation, is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination processes for applying to each of the military service academies. “Our service academies are some of the Nation’s most selective colleges,” said Congressman Hice. “Yet each year, I am privileged to congratulate 10th District students who receive appointments to these prestigious institutions. If you have a desire to serve as a commissioned officer in the United States Armed Forces and a competitive record of achievement, I encourage you to attend this important event, which brings together representatives from the United States Air Force, Naval, Military, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marine Academies.” The Military Service Academy Day is free and open to students in grades eight through twelve. The event will take place from 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. at Dobbins Air Reserve Base located at 1408 Dobbins Place, Dobbins ARB, Marietta, GA 30069. Guests may arrive as early as 8:45 AM to clear security and visit information tables. Due to the restrictions at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, all who plan to attend must register online by Tuesday, April 16th at 5:00 p.m. Each person, including parents, who will attend Academy Day must register due to the requirements for entry onto the military base. What: Military Service Academy Day 2019 Who: America’s Service Academies Representatives and Students in Grades 8 – 12 When: Saturday, April 27, 2019 from 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Where: Dobbins Air Reserve Base 1408 Dobbins Place, Hangar 5 Marietta, GA 30069 Students who are unable to attend may visit Congressman Hice’s website for more information about academy nominations. ###
03.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Reform Subcommittee on National Security, today praised the full committee passage of H.R. 1496, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2019. This bipartisan legislation amends the Former Presidents Act of 1958 to streamline the wide range of benefits provided to former presidents by limiting their future pensions, updating the annuities of surviving spouses, and reducing the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures. “Times have changed, and no former U.S. president today is dependent solely on taxpayer subsidies to support their quality of life,” said Congressman Hice. “The modern post-presidency allows presidents to earn big bucks through book tours and speaking engagements, and this bill serves as a simple and fair method to reform presidential pensions. With strong bipartisan and public support, I’m glad the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act cleared the committee by unanimous consent, and I look forward to its consideration on the House Floor.” The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2019 would: · Set the pension for former presidents at $200,000 per year; · Limit the allowance for expenses such as office space and leases, furniture, and supplies, as well as staff salaries to a lump monetary sum of $200,000 per year; · Reduce the monetary allowance dollar-for-dollar if a former president earns in excess of $400,000 in earned income; · Increase the pension for the spouses of former presidents from $20,000 to $100,000 per year; and · Maintain the funding for the security and protection of a former president or a family member. Companion legislation, S. 580, was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) on February 26, 2019. The full bill text can be found here. ##
03.21.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S Representative Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced he will host his third live telephone town hall of the year on Tuesday, March 26th at 6:00 p.m. These events provide an opportunity for 10th District residents to speak with and hear from the Congressman regarding legislative priorities for the 116th Congress. “In addition to one-on-one meetings, I’m always happy to talk with folks in open forums like Telephone Town Halls,” said Congressman Hice. “It’s not only important to hear directly from the people at home about the current goings-on in Washington, D.C., but it’s also critical to learn about the issues that are most important to our community. I look forward to speaking with many of you on Tuesday evening.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: March Telephone Town Hall When: Tuesday, March 26th at 6:00 p.m. *subject to legislative business* This forum is open to the public. 10th District residents may RSVP and submit questions for the telephone town hall here or call Representative Hice’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4101. Constituents may also join the conference by calling (877) 229-8493 and using the passcode 117571 or listen online at any point during the event.
03.11.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” on Friday, March 22nd at Home Café in downtown Lincolnton. Residents from Lincoln County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. to enjoy a hot cup of coffee with Congressman Hice while discussing our Nation’s most pressing topics. “There’s no question that the best solutions I bring to Washington come directly from the residents of the 10th District,” said Congressman Hice. “Holding ‘Coffee with Your Congressman’ events provides another chance for the community to come ask questions, get answers, and share a cup of coffee while discussing the issues that matter to you most.” Friday, March 22, 2019 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 8:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. Home Café 120 N Washington Street Lincolnton, GA 30817 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also answer questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about this upcoming “Coffee with Your Congressman” event, residents may call Congressman Hice’s office in Milledgeville at (478) 457-0007. ###
03.06.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform Subcommittee on National Security, and Committee on Oversight and Reform Chairman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) yesterday introduced H.R. 1496, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2019. This bipartisan legislation amends the Former Presidents Act of 1958 to streamline the wide range of benefits provided to former presidents by limiting their future pensions, updating the annuities of surviving spouses, and reducing the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures. “In recent years, former presidents have had no shortage of lucrative opportunities upon leaving office,” said Congressman Jody Hice. “Despite this, taxpayers are still footing the bill for the official expenditures of former Commanders-in-Chief. The Presidential Modernization Act modifies the pensions provided to future former presidents and their spouses by taking into account the modern-day financial realities realized after leaving office while keeping in place funding for security and protections needed in today’s world.” “This legislation would end government payments to former presidents who often earn substantial income from post-presidential work,” said Chairman Cummings. “History shows that former presidents do very well financially after they leave office, making it very unlikely that they need taxpayer funded office allowances to make ends meet.” The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2019 would: · Set the pension for former presidents at $200,000 per year; · Limit the cost to the taxpayer for expenses such as office space and leases, furniture, and supplies, as well as staff salaries to a lump monetary sum of $200,000 per year; · Reduce the monetary allowance dollar-for-dollar if a former president makes in excess of $400,000 in earned income; and · Maintain the funding for the security and protection of a former president or a family member. Companion legislation, S. 580, was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) on February 26, 2019. The full bill text can be found here. ##
03.05.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) has been named FreedomWorks’ Member of the Month for March 2019, given in recognition of his commitment to economic freedom, individual liberty, free enterprise, and limited government throughout his time in Congress. "It is a great honor to be selected as FreedomWorks’ Member of the Month,” said Congressman Hice. “I came to Washington determined to bring the issues of out-of-control federal spending and bloated government bureaucracy back to the national conversation. Americans expect nothing less from their representation in Congress, and I firmly believe that the federal government’s role should be to eliminate barriers to success, not create them. I am grateful for the continued work that FreedomWorks does to promote lower taxes, smaller government, and more freedom for the American people, and I thank them for this recognition.” “Rep. Hice is the type of conservative leader we need in Washington, D.C.,” said Jason Pye, Vice President of Legislative Affairs FreedomWorks. “He's a man of principle who always votes his conscience, putting his fiscally conservative ideals and commitment to constitutionally limited government at the forefront of what he does on a daily basis in the House. This may not be convenient for the 'swamp,' but we need more who, like Rep. Hice, will consistently stand up for what he believes. Being a Georgian, I'm proud of the work Rep. Hice has done and look forward to continuing to work with him and his staff to ensure that our constitutionally protected liberties and economic freedom are preserved.” Hice has a lifetime score of 97 percent on the FreedomWorks congressional scorecard and has received the FreedomFighter Award every Congress since he was elected. Click here to read more. ##
02.25.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that his staff will host three Mobile Office Hours for 10th District residents during the month of March. His constituent services representatives will set up shop at the Oconee County Library on March 6th, the Lincoln County Chamber of Commerce on March 12th, and the Mansfield City Hall on March 14th. These events provide residents with easy access to his knowledgeable staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “My staff and I are committed to serving the people of the 10th District of Georgia,” said Congressman Hice. “After years of working with federal agencies, my team can help cut through the red tape, and I’m glad these Mobile Office Hours offer residents the chance to meet with my staff on issues important to them without having to travel to one of my district offices.” To meet with a constituent services representative on an individual or family basis, residents may stop by one of the following locations (appointments are not required): Oconee County Wednesday, March 6th 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Oconee County Library 1080 Experiment Station Road Watkinsville, Georgia 30677 Lincoln County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Tuesday, March 12th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Lincoln County Chamber of Commerce Conference Room 112 Washington Street Lincolnton, GA 30817 Newton County Thursday, March 14th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Mansfield City Hall 3146 State Highway 11 Mansfield, GA 30055 To receive more information or seek assistance with any federal matter, residents may call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville District Office at (478) 457-0007. ###
02.21.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today invited high school students throughout the 10th District to participate in the 2019 Congressional Art Competition. Students in grades nine through twelve may submit two-dimensional entries, such as paintings, drawings, photos, computer-generated art, collages, and prints, to his office for consideration. The first place entry will represent the 10th District for one year in the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great platform for students to show off their unique abilities and express themselves through their creativity,” said Congressman Hice. “This annual competition is one of the highlights of my year, and I hope that our young Georgia artists will take advantage of this exceptional opportunity to grow in their talents while competing for a place in a national exhibit.” Last year’s winner wasLoganville High School student Ray Borchers, who created a pencil sketch, entitled “Nate.” For winning first place, Borchers received two round-trip plane tickets to Washington, D.C. to attend the Congressional Art Competition reception with other winners from across the country. To access the student release form and competition guidelines, visit Congressman Hice’s website. All entries must be original in concept and design and submitted to one of the Congressman’s three district offices by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, April 11th. Congressman Hice will host a district reception in April at the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts, where he will announce the winner and present awards for other top entries. For questions regarding contest details, contact Benjamin Stout at (770) 207-1776 or Ben.Stout@mail.house.gov. ###
02.15.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today issued the following statement after being elected as the Communications Chair for the House Freedom Caucus: “I am deeply honored that my friends and colleagues have selected me to serve as the first Communications Chair of the House Freedom Caucus,” said Congressman Hice. “As a former radio host, I am looking forward to lifting the forgotten voices of the American people and driving a conservative narrative in support of fiscal discipline, limited government, and traditional values – all with the ultimate goal of Republicans retaking the House Majority. This is especially important given the efforts of the radical left to make us a socialist country. I look forward to contrasting our message to theirs, and I am humbled by the opportunity to move our cause and our Caucus forward into the 116th Congress.” Rep. Warren Davidson (R-OH) will serve as the first Policy Chair for the Caucus. “Jody and Warren have distinguished themselves as compelling voices within the Caucus and effective representatives of their constituents,” said HFC Chairman Mark Meadows (R-NC). “These new positions will help the Caucus better navigate upcoming legislative debates, and I can’t think of anyone more deserving and capable of filling them.” ##
02.07.2019	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that his staff will host two Mobile Office Hours for 10th District residents during the month of February. His constituent services representatives will be at Shady Dale City Hall on February 27th and the Harlem Branch Library on February 28th. These events provide residents with easy access to his knowledgeable staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “Although we’re always just a phone call away, I understand that sometimes there’s nothing like a good old-fashioned, face-to-face meeting,” said Congressman Hice. “Mobile Office Hours are a great way for my staff to be available at convenient locations throughout Georgia’s 10th District to bring the services of my office directly to you.” To meet with a constituent services representative on an individual or family basis, residents may stop by one of the following locations (appointments are not required): Jasper County Wednesday, February 27th 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Shady Dale City Hall 22574 Main St. (GA Highway 83 N) Shady Dale, GA 31085 Columbia County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Thursday, February 28th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Harlem Library, Meeting Room on 2nd Floor 145 North Louisville St. Harlem, GA 30814 To receive more information or seek assistance with any federal matter, residents may call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville District Office at (478) 457-0007. ###
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today issued the following statement after President Trump’s State of the Union address: “The President’s message was clear: By ‘Choosing Greatness,’ we can expand prosperity for all and ‘unlock the extraordinary promise’ of America,” said Congressman Hice. “I commend President Trump for reaffirming his commitment to securing our border, protecting our families, and building an even stronger economy to lift all of our citizens up while bolstering our Nation as a whole.” “With weekly jobless claims at their lowest levels since 1969 and wages on the rise, opportunities are expanding for every American, and I share the optimism expressed by the President,” Hice continued. “It’s my hope that throughout the coming year, we can come together to enact real solutions to the problems facing our country and focus on ensuring a stronger and more prosperous future. When America is strong, unified, and proud, we can accomplish anything.” ##
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), House Republican Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), U.S. Representative Mike Johnson (R-LA), and U.S. Senator James Lankford (R-OK) today announced the reintroduction of the Free Speech Fairness Act, legislation designed to repeal the Johnson Amendment's censorship of 501(c)3 employees, including religious leaders, and restore their First Amendment rights. “For decades, the Johnson Amendment has encroached on communities of faith and limited the constitutional, inalienable rights to the free speech of our religious leaders,” said Congressman Hice. “As a pastor for more than 20 years, I witnessed firsthand the chilling effects that this IRS provision has had on our houses of worship and charitable organizations through intrusive IRS audits, steep fines, and even threats against a church’s tax-exempt status. Simply put, our First Amendment rights shouldn’t be a bargaining chip in exchange for tax-exempt status, and it’s long past time that we repeal this deeply flawed policy. I’m honored to join my colleagues in reintroducing the Free Speech Fairness Act to restore the rights of every American to express their beliefs – regardless of whether or not they’ve passed through the church doors.” “We need to repeal the Johnson Amendment so people of faith can freely express their views without fear of retribution by the IRS or any other Washington bureaucrat. For the past 65 years, the Johnson Amendment has unjustly barred religious leaders and other employees of 501(c)3 organizations from fully exercising their freedom of speech. Under threat of a costly IRS audit and loss of tax-exempt status, religious leaders are prohibited from voicing any political opinion,” said Whip Scalise. “To address this misguided provision of the U.S. Tax Code, I have joined my colleagues, Congressmen Jody Hice and Mike Johnson and Senator James Lankford in reintroducing the Free Speech Fairness Act. Our bill ensures that religious and nonprofit leaders will no longer live in fear of the consequences to exercising their First Amendment right. Our right to free speech under the First Amendment is what makes the American people the freest in the world. No one should be restricted from speaking freely about the issues that affect each and every American simply because of the job they hold.” “Free speech is one of our most sacred, unalienable rights and no one should be subjected to censorship by the federal government,” said Congressman Johnson. “Yet, for more than 60 years, pastors and churches have been silenced in sharing their message. The Johnson Amendment stands in stark contrast to who we are as Americans and should be repealed immediately. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in reintroducing the Free Speech Fairness Act and look forward to unleashing the voice of the church once again.” “The federal government and the IRS should never have the ability to inhibit free speech,” said Senator Lankford. “The Free Speech Fairness Act is needed to prevent government intrusion and suppression of free speech by removing a restriction on speech that has existed since 1954. The First Amendment right of free speech and right to practice any faith, or no faith, are foundational American values that must extend to everyone, whether they are a pastor, social worker, or any charity employee or volunteer. People who work for a nonprofit still have constitutional rights to assembly, free speech, and free press.” Background: · Scalise, Hice, and Lankford first introduced the Free Speech Fairness Act during the 114th Congress. · The bill successfully passed the House during the 115th Congress. · Forty-seven organizations, including Family Research Council, National Religious Broadcasters, and the Alliance Defending Freedom, support this legislation and have urged Congress to restore these First Amendment rights. ##
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today announced he will host his second telephone town hall of the 116th Congress on Wednesday, February 6th at 6:00 p.m. for residents of Georgia’s 10th Congressional District. During the live conference, Hice will provide constituents with an update from Washington, discuss legislative priorities, and take questions from participants. “I know 10th District residents lead busy lives but still want to be involved and hear from their elected officials,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why it’s so important for me to reach out in a way that’s convenient for them. I hope Wednesday’s telephone town hall will give those of you who want to ask me a question – or simply just follow the discussion – another opportunity to do so. I look forward to listening to my constituents and making sure they know where I stand on the issues.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: February Telephone Town Hall When: Wednesday, February 6th from 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. This forum is open to the public. 10th District residents may RSVP and submit questions for the telephone town hall here or call Representative Hice’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4101. Constituents may also join the conference by calling (877) 229-8493 and using the passcode 117571 or listen online at any point during the event. ##
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) yesterday was named Ranking Member for the House Committee on Oversight and Reform Subcommittee on National Security for the 116th Congress. With oversight jurisdiction over national security, homeland security, foreign operations, immigration, and emergency management, the subcommittee ensures that federal agencies are accountable and transparent in their execution of federal law as it relates to national security. “It is an honor to serve as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security to support and strengthen the safety and security of the American people,” said Congressman Hice. “My highest priorities are advancing America’s interests at home and abroad, treating our adversaries as our adversaries and our friends as our friends, and putting politics aside in search of the truth. I am so grateful to Ranking Member Jordan for selecting me for this position, and I look forward to working alongside him and my other colleagues on this committee to root out waste, fraud, and abuse for the protection of our country and the good of the American people." “Jody Hice brings a unique set of talents to the Oversight Committee,” said Ranking Member Jim Jordan (R-OH). “I look forward to working with him to find and defend the truth and conduct serious fact-based oversight.” Hice will also be a member of the subcommittees on Government Operations and on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties. ##
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today announced that he will host his first live telephone town hall of the 116th Congress on Thursday, January 17th at 5:45 p.m. for residents of Georgia’s 10th Congressional District. During the forum, Hice will provide constituents with a Washington update, discuss legislative priorities, and take questions from participants. “Ensuring folks have the opportunity to share their thoughts, questions, and concerns directly with me is a key part of my job,” said Congressman Hice. “As we begin not only a new year, but a new session of Congress, I’m looking forward to hearing how I can best represent the good people of Georgia’s 10th District in Washington. I welcome any chance to engage with them, and I’m grateful that these regular telephone town hall events are one more way that I can reach the community.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: January Telephone Town Hall When: Thursday, January 17th from 5:45 p.m. – 6:45 p.m. This forum is open to the public. 10th District residents may RSVP and submit questions for the telephone town hall here or call Representative Hice’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4101. Constituents may also join the conference by calling (877) 229-8493 and using the passcode 117571 or listen online at any point during the event. ##
01.07.2019	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced the names of thirty young men and women whom he nominated for appointment to the United States Service Academies. Each year, it is his distinct privilege to nominate eligible candidates to the United States Air Force (USAFA), Naval (USNA), Military (USMA), and Merchant Marine (USMMA) academies. These prestigious institutions prepare young Americans to become commissioned officers in the United States Armed Forces. “Attending one of our Nation’s service academies is a high honor,” said Congressman Hice, “reserved for those who exemplify the best attributes of character, scholarship, physical aptitude, leadership, and motivation. I commend all thirty candidates and am extremely proud to congratulate Jasmine Brown, Anna Caldwell, Jay Hamil, and Tucker Keadle, who are the first to secure appointments to these distinguished institutions.” Based upon the recommendation of an independent academy advisory board, Congressman Hice nominated the following candidates to at least one of the United States Service Academies: 1. Jason Beasley (McDonough, GA), Ola High School 2. Jasmine Brown (McDonough, GA), Union Grove High School – received and accepted an offer of appointment from the U.S. Naval Academy 3. Anna Caldwell (Milledgeville, GA), Georgia Military Prep School – received an offer of appointment from the U.S. Air Force Academy 4. Spencer Carroll (Buford, GA), Mill Creek High School 5. McCrae Claas (Watkinsville, GA), Oconee County High School 6. Ashley Clegg (Monroe, GA), Social Circle High School 7. Garrett Dalley (Dacula, GA), Riverside Military Academy 8. Jonathan Daniel (Eatonton, GA), EBLA Academy 9. Justin Dygert (Evans, GA), Greenbrier High School 10. Jacqueline Ellison (Greensboro, GA), Lake Oconee Academy 11. Grant Fink (McDonough, GA), Union Grove High School 12. Jason “Jay” Hamil (Statham, GA), North Oconee High School – received an offer of appointment from the U.S. Naval Academy 13. Austin Herndon (Loganville, GA), Loganville High School 14. Sean Herndon (Milledgeville, GA), GMC Prep School 15. Liam Hulstine (Bowdon, GA), New Mexico Military Institute 16. Gordon “Tucker” Keadle (Auburn, GA), Apalachee High School – received an offer of appointment from the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 17. Christopher Lirette (Milledgeville, GA), Marion Military Institute 18. Ryan McBride (Peachtree City, GA), McIntosh High School 19. Matthew McMain (Monroe, GA), George Walton Academy 20. Jamsn Mendoza (Athens, GA), Clarke Central High School 21. Thomas Mims (Buckhead, GA), U.S. Military Academy Prep School 22. Daniel Parrish (Bethlehem, GA), U.S. Military Academy Prep School 23. Morgan Raines (Loganville, GA), Loganville High School 24. Richard Salies (McDonough, GA), U.S. Military Academy Prep School 25. Timothy Salies (McDonough, GA), Henry County High School 26. Lanie Smith (Lawrenceville, GA), Archer High School 27. Joseph “Joey” Steadman (Appling, GA), Greenbrier High School 28. Susan Walker (McDonough, GA), Union Grove High School 29. Logan Wilson (Dacula, GA), Mountain View High School 30. Brandon Yau (Dacula, GA), Mill Creek High School Students who attend a U.S. Service Academy commit to serving at least five years in their respective military branch upon graduation. Securing a nomination is a required step in the Academy application process. Ultimately, the Academies make the final decision on who receives an appointment of admission. ###
01.03.2019	Monroe, GA – In an ongoing effort to provide excellent constituent services, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in January. These events provide residents the chance to sit down with a member of his team to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. This month, Congressman Hice’s constituent service representatives will be at Auburn City Hall, Louisville City Hall, and the Tennille Community Health Center. “Since entering office,” said Congressman Hice, “I’m proud that my team has hosted successful Mobile Office Hours throughout each of the 25 counties in our district. Holding these meetings in every corner of Georgia’s 10th District has provided my staff with great opportunities to meet with local residents, elected officials, businesses, and organizations to hear their priorities and help with their concerns. Last year alone, they helped return $5.7 million in grants, casework, and scholarships to 10th District residents, and they’re ready to go to work for you as well.” To meet with a constituent services representative on an individual or family basis, residents may stop by one of the following locations (appointments are not required): Barrow County Wednesday, January 23rd 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Auburn City Hall 1369 4th Avenue Auburn, GA 30011 Jefferson County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Monday, January 28th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Louisville City Hall, City Council Chambers 1011 Peachtree Street Louisville, GA 30434 Washington County Wednesday, January 30th 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Tennille Community Health Center 116 Smith Street Tennille, GA 31089 To receive more information or seek assistance with any federal matter, residents may call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville District Office at (478) 457-0007. ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) released the following statement today after being sworn in to the 116th Congress: “Georgia’s 10th District and America as a whole have made great strides over the past two years, and despite the new dynamics, I will continue to work to help improve the lives of citizens across our District and our Nation. I want to express my deep appreciation to the people of the 10th District for providing me with the privilege of representing them in Congress for another term. “The coming months in a new Congress will bring debates and discussions about how to best move forward as a country. I will work in good faith with my colleagues across the aisle to find common ground where possible, but I will hold steady on our shared conservative principles. “In our district, hard work, determination, and innovation drive the people that live here. I have seen the commitment to helping advance our community’s vision, and that shared resilience and optimism inspire me every day. That’s why I have always made it a priority to bring those concerns with me to Washington in order to amplify the voices of the people I represent. “Locally, we’ve seen reassuring signs of businesses expanding and creating jobs, entrepreneurs and small businesses growing as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, public-private partnerships bringing significant investment in economic development, and state-of-the art technology and education centers showcasing the 10th District’s bright minds and vast resources. “Over the next two years, I will continue to advocate for limited government, a strengthened national security, and a bolstered economy for a stronger and more prosperous future for each and every one of us.” ##
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after S. 756, the FIRST Step Act, passed the U.S. House of Representatives: “With the passage of S. 756, the First Step Act, we are taking important action in reforming our criminal justice system while saving taxpayer dollars and ensuring second chances for those who rehabilitate and re-enter society through training and skill development,” said Representative Hice. “Programs, like drug and accountability courts, and working to reduce recidivism rates in the prison systems are commendable, and I look forward to seeing more meaningful strides toward reform while ensuring that the rule of law is upheld and strengthened. Throughout this process, I’m proud Governor Nathan Deal, the State of Georgia, and Congressman Doug Collins have served as vanguards for criminal justice reform and helped work this bill through the federal level to emulate our state’s record of achievement. Today is a win for both redemption and public safety.” ##
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-Ga.), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, today praised the House passage of H.R. 6108, the Preserving America’s Battlefields Act. This bill reauthorizes the Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Program, a successful dollar-for-dollar grants program that protects the preservation of Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil War battlefields. Hice delivered remarks on the U.S. House Floor on Monday, December 10, 2018, urging his colleagues to support this legislation. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by unanimous consent. Rep. Hice delivers remarks on H.R. 6108, the Preserving America’s Battlefield Act “Since the inception of this program, Battlefield Land Acquisition grants have been used extensively to preserve portions of dozens of battlefield sites that played roles in the American Revolution, the War of 1812, and the American Civil War,” said Congressman Hice. “These dollar-for-dollar matching land grants have saved more than 30,000 acres of battlegrounds across 20 states. Just this year, in my own district, this program assisted in securing 180 acres of battlegrounds surrounding the site of Kettle Creek Battlefield, the site of the only significant Patriot victory in Georgia during the Revolutionary War. My bill would reauthorize this successful bipartisan federal grants program and would dedicate a portion of that authorization for educational purposes and for the restoration and interpretation of high-priority battlefield sites.” “This will help to make these battlegrounds beautiful, historic, and educational tourist destinations,” Hice continued. “This program has been one of the most successful and efficient land grant programs in our Nation’s history, continually receiving bipartisan support. Both former Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama supported the program’s authorization and subsequent reauthorization, respectively. I am very proud to say that my bill has continued this rich tradition of bipartisan support here in this 115th Congress.” House Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-Ut.) also praised the legislation on the House Floor: “This is one of those bills that makes an old history teacher’s heart fill with joy,” said Chairman Rob Bishop. “It’s one of the right things to do. We’re talking about areas that are living memorials to the heroism, to the sacrifice of those people who made this country what it is. This bill is about preserving our history, helping us to know and understand and retain the story of who we are as a Nation, and also how we arrived there as a Nation. All of that is significant.” Watch Chairman Rob Bishop’s full remarks on H.R. 6108, the Preserving America’s Battlefield Act Companion legislation, S.3505, has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), and Roger Wicker (R-Miss). ##
11.30.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in December. This event will provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. Congressman Hice’s constituent service representatives will be at the Greene County Chamber of Commerce on December 13th from 10:00 a.m. until noon and the AMVETS Post 10 in Athens on December 19th from 10:30 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. “Successful Mobile Office Hours have been held in all corners of the 10th Congressional District of Georgia, and this month, my team is setting up shop in Greensboro and Athens,” said Congressman Hice. “Whether you or a family member need help with federal programs, such as Veterans Benefits, Social Security, Immigration, or Medicare, my staff is available to assist you during these upcoming Mobile Office Hours. We all know how confusing navigating the federal government can be, and we’re ready to step in and work on your behalf.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations: Greene County Thursday, December 13th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Greene County Chamber of Commerce 111 North Main Street Greensboro, GA 30642 Clarke County Wednesday, December 19th 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. AMVETS Maxwell-Wood Post 10 1001 Winterville Road Athens, GA 30605 For more information about this event or assistance with any federal matter, residents may call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville District Office at (478) 457-0007. ###
11.12.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours at the Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday, November 28. This event will provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “Successful Mobile Office Hours have been held in all corners of the 10th Congressional District of Georgia, and this November my team is coming to Eatonton,” said Congressman Hice. “If you need help with any federal agency, please stop by the Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce from 11 a.m. until 1 p.m. on Wednesday, November 28th and my staff will be glad to assist you. Although we can’t guarantee the outcome, we can promise that we’ll do our very best to cut through the red tape and get the timely response that you deserve.” Putnam County Mobile Office Hours Wednesday, November 28 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce Plaza Arts Center 305 N Madison Avenue Eatonton, GA 31024 For more information about this event or assistance with any federal matter, residents may call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776 or his Milledgeville District Office at (478) 457-0007. ###
11.05.2018	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host a veterans appreciation coffee on Monday, November 12th. Congressman Hice invites 10th District veterans to stop by his Monroe District Office between 8:30 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. for coffee and pastries. Representative Hice will celebrate and thank local veterans for their service and discuss important issues facing our military and veterans. “Our Nation is blessed to have courageous warriors who served in order to protect our most valued treasures, our freedom, and our democracy,” said Congressman Hice. “These patriots upheld the highest sense of selfless honor, and for this, I am privileged to express my heartfelt appreciation for their service to America.” What: Veterans Appreciation Coffee Who: Congressman Hice & 10th District Veterans When: Monday, November 12, 2018 from 8:30 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Where: Monroe District Office 100 Court Street Monroe, GA 30655 For more information about this event, please call Congressman Hice’s Monroe District Office at (770) 207-1776. ###
11.02.2018	Grovetown, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) and Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) yesterday hosted a World War II veterans’ appreciation event featuring a documentary about the Honor Flight program, a non-profit organization that transports veterans to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect on their service at their respective memorials. In attendance were World War II veterans, family members of veterans, Grovetown High School JROTC members, local school officials, and representatives from the Georgia War Veterans Nursing Home. Congressmen Hice and Allen presented certificates of special recognition to local veterans for their bravery in World War II. “Each one of the World War II veterans who was honored in yesterday’s appreciation event is a hero,” said Congressman Hice. “The veterans of World War II, rightfully known as the Greatest Generation, are a universal symbol of the patriotic pride that beats loudly in every single American heart, and it’s deeply humbling to recognize local warriors for their service to our country. Their dedication to the uniform has inspired young people today to follow in their footsteps to risk everything on behalf of the American people, and I’m forever grateful to those who fought to maintain and strengthen the freedoms we still enjoy to this day.” “Our World War II veterans are amongst the bravest heroes this nation has ever seen and they truly represent the Greatest Generation,” said Congressman Allen. “With many Grovetown High School JROTC students in attendance, it was a blessing to see these young men and women interact and learn from veterans who have fought to defend the freedoms that we hold so dear as they consider service in the various branches of the United States Armed Forces. I am beyond humbled to have had the opportunity to host yesterday’s event alongside my friend and colleague, Congressman Jody Hice – and I’d like to thank all of those in attendance and Grovetown High School for opening their doors to our community and our local World War II veterans.” ##
11.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (GA-10) today released the following statement after receiving the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. This award is given to Members of Congress in recognition of their support for issues critical to manufacturing in the United States. Hice scored 100% based on 27 key votes on the NAM's 115th Congressional Voting Record. “Manufacturing means jobs,” said Congressman Hice. “Through my many site visits to local manufacturers, I’ve seen a strong surge of economic growth and job creation in the 10th District, and we must continue to support our local businesses and inspire our young people to enter these lucrative fields. A thriving manufacturing sector puts people to work, drives growth, and bolsters our economy, and I am proud to be associated with the outstanding work the NAM is doing on behalf of manufacturers in Georgia and across the Nation. I want to thank the National Association of Manufacturers for this honor, and I share the NAM’s vision of enhancing America’s position as the best place in the world to manufacture and attract investment.” “In Georgia and across America, manufacturers are creating jobs, investing in communities and raising wages. That’s a direct result of Congressman Hice’s support for policies that have strengthened manufacturing and created opportunities for America’s manufacturing workers,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Rep. Hice who understand manufacturing’s critical contributions to our economy and are working actively to advance the manufacturing agenda.” Hice tours NIBCO, Inc. in Greensboro and hears from plant manager Doug Parnell about local job creation during a site visit in August Rep. Hice attends the grand opening of Shire Manufacturing’s new facility in Social Circle with local leaders and Shire executives (Pictured L-R: State Representative Dave Belton, Congressman Hice, Adrian Murphy, Head of Plasma Operations, Marcus Downs, Associate Director of Public Affairs, and Carlos Soto, Vice President of Manufacturing Operations) Rep. Hice tests products at Luxottica Group in Newton County while touring the facility in September Background: The National Association of Manufacturers is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and all 50 states. For more information about the Manufacturers, please visit www.nam.org. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here. ##
10.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, today introduced H.R. 7077, the Kettle Creek Battlefield Study Act, to direct the Secretary of the Interior to evaluate the Kettle Creek battlefield site and determine its suitability as a designated unit of the National Park System. “Protecting sites important to our shared national heritage is critical to maintaining our history for years to come,” said Congressman Hice. “I am proud to support and safeguard the preservation of hallowed lands like Kettle Creek before they are lost to time.” “Recognizing the 1779 battle at Kettle Creek for its role in history and its memorial and educational values, the current work of Rep. Jody Hice’s office has been broadly significant,” said Dr. Joseph Harris of the Kettle Creek Battlefield Association. “I appreciate his concern and dedication to the principles symbolized by the current 250-acre forested site.” Background: Located in Wilkes County, Georgia, the Battle of Kettle Creek is considered one of the most significant Patriot victories in the state during the Revolutionary War. As a strong advocate for preserving America’s historic battlefields, Representative Hice has supported several battlefield conservation efforts while serving in Congress, including sponsoring H.R. 6108, the Preserving America’s Battlefields Act. In February, Hice joined former University of Georgia football coach and Civil War author Vince Dooley, along with representatives from the American Battlefield Trust, to announce the acquisition of 180 acres for this crucial battlefield park. ##
10.18.2018	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressmen Jody Hice (GA-10) and Rick Allen (GA-12) will host a veterans’ appreciation event featuring a documentary about the Honor Flight program, a non-profit organization that transports our World War II heroes to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect on their service at their respective memorials. The event will be held at 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, November 1st at Grovetown High School, where the Congressmen will present certificates of special recognition to local veterans for their bravery during World War II. “World War II veterans and members of the Greatest Generation are a group of individuals full of towering achievement and modest demeanor,” said Congressman Hice. “It is my honor and privilege to host this event, which honors WWII veterans for their sacrifice and service to our nation. I truly look forward to hearing their stories and to showing my appreciation to these brave men and women.” “Our World War II veterans in Georgia are amongst the bravest heroes that this world has ever seen,” said Congressman Rick Allen. “I am truly humbled to host this event alongside my friend and colleague, Congressman Hice, to recognize the sacrifice and unrivaled selflessness of our nation’s greatest generation.” The event is open to World War II veterans and their families, as well as students from the Grovetown High School ROTC program. Seating is limited, and reservations are required. To RSVP, veterans may contact Congressman Allen’s Augusta District Office at (706) 228-1980 and are asked to provide their name, branch, and rank of service. The deadline to register for the ceremony is Tuesday, October 30, 2018. What: Veterans Appreciation Event Who: Congressmen Jody Hice & Rick Allen, World War II veterans, family members of veterans, and Grovetown High School ROTC members When: Thursday, November 1, 2018 from 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Where: Grovetown High School 2010 Warrior Way Grovetown, GA 30813 ###
10.12.2018	Monroe, GA – On Thursday, October 18, 2018, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will participate in a dedication ceremony for the display of the Foundations of American Law & Government, a set of nine historic documents that will be prominently featured at the Greene County Courthouse. “Six years ago, I was privileged to stand with Governor Nathan Deal as he signed a law that permits this collection of historical documents to be displayed in any public building,” said Congressman Hice. “It was the culmination of work I undertook as a private citizen long before I became a member of Congress, and it gives me great pleasure to participate in the dedication ceremony of this important display in my hometown of Greensboro. I invite everyone to join me at the Greene County Courthouse to celebrate the foundation of our American constitutional law.” The Foundations of American Law & Government display contains documents that played a significant role in the foundation of our system of law and government, including the Ten Commandments, Mayflower Compact, and Declaration of Independence. Thursday, October 18, 2018 10:30 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Dedication of Historical Document Display Greene County Courthouse 113 N Main St. Greensboro, GA 30642 ###
10.10.2018	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in partnership with Jefferson County, will host the 2nd Annual Helping Our Heroes veterans’ appreciation event on Saturday, October 27th at the Jefferson County Leisure Center. Veterans are invited to enjoy a continental breakfast and turkey giveaway, while receiving information on filing claims, veteran housing, benefits, suicide prevention, employment, and more. “If anyone deserves red-carpet treatment, it’s our servicemembers, veterans, and their families,” said Congressman Hice. “From serving on the House Armed Services Committee to co-sponsoring multiple pieces of legislation to support our men and women in uniform, I am committed to helping this courageous community. I look forward to hosting this important event and the opportunity to recognize the tremendous sacrifice of our heroes in and around Jefferson County.” What: Helping Our Heroes When: Saturday, October 27th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Where: Jefferson County Leisure Center 209 E 7th Street Louisville, GA 30434 The following organizations will participate in the event to support our local veterans: ForcesUnited, formerly the Augusta Warrior Project, Augusta Vet Center, Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center, Georgia Department of Veterans Service, and Jefferson County Vets in Action. For more information, please call at (478) 457-0007 or email Jessica.hayes@mail.house.gov. ###
10.04.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff during the month of October. These events provide residents the chance to sit down with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “While I’m in Washington, I’m proud that my office can offer direct support to residents throughout the 10th Congressional District,” said Congressman Hice. “Too often, my team and I hear from people who are struggling under the burdensome rules and regulations of federal agencies and discouraged by its agonizingly slow process. If you need help with a federal agency – such as Social Security, Medicare, the IRS, or the VA – stop by one of our upcoming events at the Oglethorpe County Farm Bureau or the Washington-Wilkes Chamber of Commerce. My staff is eager to speak with you and help in any way possible.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations: Oglethorpe County Wednesday, October 24 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Oglethorpe County Farm Bureau 925 Athens Road Crawford, GA 30630 Wilkes County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, October 24 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Washington-Wilkes Chamber of Commerce 22 West Square Washington, GA 30673 Residents may also call Congressman Hice’s offices in Monroe at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville at (478) 457-0007 during regular office hours. ###
09.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) yesterday introduced H.R. 6914, the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Expansion Act, to amend the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act (LEOSA) to provide active and qualified retired railroad police officers the ability to carry concealed firearms across state lines. Established in 2004 and expanded in 2010, LEOSA affords eligible law enforcement personnel concealed carry privileges but currently fails to include all railway police. “The responsibility of law enforcement officers to protect life and serve the community doesn’t stop when they are off-duty or even retired,” said Congressman Hice. “In light of threats to public safety, it is crucial that we do everything we can to ensure the security of our transportation infrastructure – and railroad police play an integral part. While the privilege of carrying concealed firearms is currently available to qualified Amtrak police officers, other railroad law enforcement personnel have not been extended that same privilege. By allowing trained railroad police professionals – who have the legal authority to arrest and process individuals who violate state and federal law – the ability to carry concealed firearms nationwide, active-duty and qualified retired officers will be equipped to respond quickly to any emergency regardless of where it occurs. I believe that my bill moves us one step closer to a safer transportation system and restores Second Amendment protections to those who keep our homeland secure.” H.R. 6914 is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (IL-08) and Debbie Lesko (AZ-08) and supported by the Railroad Police Chiefs Section of the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP). You can find the full bill text here. ##
09.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, today praised the committee passage of H.R. 6108, the Preserving America’s Battlefields Act. This bill reauthorizes the Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Program, a successful dollar-for-dollar grants program that protects the preservation of Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil War battlefields. “Given that the 250th anniversary of our Nation’s founding is fast approaching and with it an influx of visitors expected at battlefields around the country, there is no better time to preserve these historic sites than right now,” said Congressman Hice. “These hallowed grounds serve as educational reminders of our shared heritage to current and future generations of Americans. In Georgia’s 10th District alone, this valuable land grants program has assisted in securing 180-acres of battlegrounds surrounding the battle site of Kettle Creek, the only significant patriot victory in Georgia during the Revolutionary War. I’m proud that my bill has continued a rich tradition of bipartisan support with its unanimous passage out of the House Natural Resources Committee, and I look forward to its consideration on the House Floor.” In February, Representative Hice joined former University of Georgia football coach and Civil War author Vince Dooley, along with representatives from the American Battlefield Trust to announce the acquisition of 180 acres for a crucial battlefield park in Wilkes County, Ga., scene of a key Revolutionary War conflict. H.R. 6108 is currently cosponsored by 32 Members of Congress. ##
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today was named a “Guardian of Small Business” by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), a leading small business association representing 350,000 companies nationwide. This award is the most prestigious honor that NFIB presents to Members of Congress in recognition of their efforts to support small business policies. Hice earned 100% for his voting record during the 115th Congress on NFIB's “How Congress Voted” scorecard. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy, so every time I’m traveling the 10th District, I’m humbled to hear from hardworking business owners and their employees who create opportunities for American families,” said Congressman Hice. “Enabling them to flourish is the fastest path to economic prosperity, and I will continue to fight for legislation – like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act – that reduces regulatory burdens to help mom-and-pop shops succeed in a free-market economy.” NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan presents the “Guardian of Small Business” award to Representative Hice ##
09.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), Vice Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, recently introduced H.R. 6787, the Reforming Government Act. This legislation provides President Trump the authority to submit plans to Congress to reorganize the federal government and enables the Legislative Branch to consider those plans using an expedited process. H.R. 6787 also ensures that the Office of Management and Budget will certify that such reorganization plans will likely result in cost savings for taxpayers. “For decades, the federal government has operated under conditions that would be unacceptable in any other line of work,” said Congressman Hice. “Bureaucracy is out of control, and efficiency is nearly nonexistent. My bill would unlock a mechanism for the Trump Administration to present plans to restructure our outdated system of federal agencies to Congress. In order to streamline our government and save valuable taxpayer dollars, we must enable a system of good governance focused on results rather than the same burdensome, ineffective approach.” Companion legislation, S. 3137, was introduced on June 26, 2018 in the U.S. Senate by Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman Ron Johnson (R-WI) and Senator James Lankford (R-OK). The full bill text can be found here. ##
09.12.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that Georgia Piedmont Technical College - Newton Campus and the economic development offices of Newton, Morgan, Walton, Jasper, and Greene counties will host their second annual job fair on Friday, October 5th. Building on last year’s success, which drew hundreds of applicants from around the area, the 2018 Regional Job Fair will connect job seekers with local employers in the fields of manufacturing, film and entertainment, public safety, local government, bio-pharma, high-technology, and distribution. Additionally, it will feature a “company highlight” room for job seekers to learn more about the companies to which they will apply and information regarding relocation assistance, while also offering free continuing-education workshops throughout the day. “This regional event will bring together community talent and more than 50 employers offering hundreds of jobs,” said Congressman Hice. “Whether you’re looking for a fresh start or just beginning a career, this is the place to be. I wholeheartedly believe that the 10th District is a special place, and I’m particularly proud of this community and the regional partnerships that have helped to ensure that the I-20 corridor is a great place to do business and a powerful force in Georgia.” “The 2018 Regional Job Fair is going to highlight the outstanding job opportunities east of Atlanta representing Greene, Jasper, Newton, Morgan, Rockdale, and Walton counties,” said Serra Hall, senior project manager for the Newton/Covington Office of Economic Development. “Our diverse companies provide opportunities for all different skill sets. We are happy to announce that the job fair vendors have jobs that range from entry level to the senior executive status. We are looking forward to hundreds of jobs being available by incredible companies.” New this year, the job fair will feature 20-25 minute workshops on resume writing, interview skills, dressing for success, soft skills, and goal setting. These sessions are open to everyone who attends the event. “Employment candidates will find a wealth of exciting career opportunities and free workshops at this job fair,” said Dr. Irvin Clark, vice president of economic development and dean of the Newton campus. “A variety of employers will be eager to hire in a wide range of fields. Events such as this are designed to connect the region’s talented workers with employers who are looking to place candidates at all skill levels,” he said. “By offering free workshops, Georgia Piedmont is preparing candidates to successfully secure job interviews and career opportunities. Hosting this job fair is a critical part of Georgia Piedmont Technical College’s commitment to help strengthen the local economy,” Clark concluded. The job fair will take place from 10:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. at Georgia Piedmont Technical College, Building D, located at 8100 Bobby Williams Parkway in Covington. There is no fee to participate and advance registration is not required. For more information, including a list of employers who will be present, visit www.selectnewton.com/2018-job-fair. ###
09.10.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff during the month of September. These events provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “While I’m in Washington, I’m proud that my office can offer direct support to residents throughout the 10th Congressional District,” said Congressman Hice. “Too often, my team and I hear from people who are struggling under the burdensome rules and regulations of federal agencies and discouraged by its agonizingly slow process. If you need help with a federal agency – such as Social Security, Medicare, the IRS, or the VA – stop by one of our upcoming events at the Hancock County Library, the Warren County Senior Center, or the Family Connection and Communities in Schools of Glascock County. My staff is eager to meet with you and help in any way possible.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations: Hancock County Tuesday, September 25th 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Hancock County Public Library 8984 East Broad Street Sparta, GA 31087 Warren County Wednesday, September 26th 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Warren County Senior Citizens Center 59 Gibson Highway Warrenton, GA 30828 Glascock County Wednesday, September 26th 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Family Connection and Communities in Schools of Glascock County 370 West Main Street Gibson, GA 30810 Residents may also call Congressman Hice’s offices in Monroe at (770) 207-1776 or Milledgeville at (478) 457-0007 during regular offices hours. ###
09.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) yesterday was recognized as a “Hero of Main Street” by the National Retail Federation (NRF) for his consistent support of legislation important to the retail industry and its millions of small businesses. “Implementing policies that enable our retailers to expand, hire, and obtain the capital to pursue big ideas helps our Main Street businesses thrive and spurs long-term economic growth,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m proud that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act jump-started the American economy just as we promised, and I’m confident we've only just begun. I’m honored to receive the Hero of Main Street award from the National Retail Federation and will continue to support and value the role retailers – big and small – play in growing our communities and overall economy.” “Retailers and consumers are feeling good about the state of the U.S. economy, and a big part of that is the result of lawmakers who have made economic growth and job creation a top priority,” said NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay. “As a Hero of Main Street, Congressman Hice truly understands that the decisions made in Washington have a real impact on local businesses and communities across the country.” Congressman Hice receives the “Hero of Main Street” award from NRF Senior Vice President of Government Relations David French Background: The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013, and eligibility is based on key votes, bill sponsorship, and advocacy to advance retailers’ priorities. Recipients have supported policies that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. The National Retail Federation is the world’s largest retail trade association. Based in Washington, D.C., NRF represents discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private-sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs — 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. ##
08.13.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) invites Vietnam veterans to participate in an honors ceremony at the Johnson County Courthouse on Wednesday, August 28th at 6:00 p.m. Organized by Probate Judge Mary Jo Buxton and the Wrightsville Rotary Club, the ceremony will provide long overdue public recognition to Vietnam veterans for their military service. Congressman Hice will join Georgia Department of Veterans Service Commissioner Mike Roby to present veterans with the Defense Department’s Vietnam Veteran Commemorative Lapel Pin and the state of Georgia’s Certificate of Honor. “Our Vietnam veterans made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of our nation, and it is an honor to be able to publicly express my gratitude for their service,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to joining with the community to recognize the commitment and courage of our local heroes.” “It is never the wrong time to say thank you to a veteran, and that is especially true for so many Vietnam War veterans who were never properly thanked when they returned home,” said Commissioner Roby. “We hope to eventually present every Georgia veteran with a Certificate of Honor recognizing their service during the Vietnam War.” The deadline to register for the ceremony is Tuesday, August 21st. Every Georgia veteran with honorable service during the Vietnam War (from June 1, 1954 to May 15, 1975, as recognized by DoD) is eligible to receive the awards. This includes veterans with service in-country and those who served in other capacities. Vietnam veterans who would like to participate in the ceremony may contact the GDVS Central Office via email bzeringue@vs.state.ga.us with their DD Form 214 attached or fax their information (name, address, and phone number) and “214” to (404) 656-7006, with their information marked “Johnson County C&P Ceremony.” For more information, call Brian Zeringue, GDVS Director of Public Information, (404) 656-5933. ###
08.08.2018	Monroe, GA – On Wednesday, August 15, 2018, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at TradeWind Coffee Company in Dacula, Georgia. Residents from Gwinnett County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee. “Keeping in touch with residents from Georgia’s 10th District is vitally important to me,” said Congressman Hice. “With the August District Work Period in full swing, I’m glad to have the chance to answer your questions and listen to the issues that matter to you most.” Wednesday, August 15, 2018 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. TradeWind Coffee Co. 2300 Liam Ave #200 Dacula, GA 30019 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also answer questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about this upcoming “Coffee with Your Congressman” event, residents may call Congressman Hice’s office in Monroe at (770) 207-1776. ###
08.01.2018	Milledgeville, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host his annual Service Academy Day on Saturday, August 18th on the campus of Georgia Military College. The event is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for the Nation’s five military service academies. Students in grades eight through twelve are invited to attend. The event will take place from 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. in the Goldstein Center for the Performing Arts Auditorium, where representatives from the United States Air Force, Naval, Military, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marine Academies will discuss their requirements for admittance. “This event is a great way for students to learn how they can receive a world-class education at one of our Nation’s prestigious military academies,” said Congressman Hice. “Earning an appointment is truly the opportunity of a lifetime. This includes a full scholarship, resulting in a commission as an officer in the United States Armed Forces upon graduation.” All students admitted to our Nation’s military service academies must first receive a nomination from at least one member of their state's Congressional Delegation, the Vice President, or the President of the United States. Students who are seeking Congressman Hice’s nomination should submit a completed application to his office by October 10, 2018. Visit Congressman Hice’s website to access the application and learn more about the nomination process. What: GA-10 Service Academy Day Who: America’s Service Academies & Students in Grades Eight through Twelve When: Saturday, August 18, 2018 from 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Where: Georgia Military College Goldstein Center for the Performing Arts Auditorium 325 S. Elbert Street Milledgeville, GA 31061 ###
07.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today praised the passage of the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5515, the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. “With today’s passage of the FY’19 NDAA Conference Report, we are one step closer to providing our troops with the resources and capabilities they need to carry out their missions,” said Congressman Hice. “I have tremendous appreciation for the sacrifices made by our servicemembers, and while there are additional priorities throughout our state – and Nation – still needing attention, I’m proud of the work we’ve done to deliver our warfighters the tools they need to sustain a strong and stable military force.” ##
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), Vice Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations yesterday introduced H.R. 6391, the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) Reauthorization Act. The MSPB is an independent, quasi-judiciary agency within the Executive Branch that plays a critical role in managing the federal government’s roughly two million civilian employees, mainly by hearing appeals by employees who believe they have been treated unjustly by their agency. H.R. 6391 reauthorizes the MSPB for five years and implements much-needed reforms to expedite the appeals process, cut down on frivolous appeals, and strengthen justified agency personnel actions. “For too long, our federal government has systematically made it almost impossible to fire an underperforming federal employee,” said Congressman Hice. “In fact, the process of removing federal employees for poor performance or misconduct takes a year and a half, on average. This is simply unacceptable, and the American people deserve better. My bill will work to improve government efficiency and effectiveness by enacting critical reforms to our appeals process – currently overwhelmed by grievances – while protecting whistleblowers and those who help us root out waste, fraud, and abuse. I am proud that this legislation was reported out of committee, and I look forward to its consideration on the House Floor.” The Merit Systems Protection Board Reauthorization Act is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Mark Meadows (R-NC) and Paul Mitchell (R-MI). The bill was ordered favorably out of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Tuesday, July 17, 2018 by a vote of 20-12. Congressman Hice’s opening remarks on H.R. 6391 during the committee mark-up can be found here. The full bill text can be found here. ##
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) yesterday received the FreedomWorks Freedom Fighter Award for his continued support of economic freedom and individual liberty in the U.S House of Representatives. This award honors Members of Congress who have advocated for policies that promote free enterprise and limited government. Congressman Hice scored a 94% on FreedomWorks’ 2017 Congressional Scorecard, demonstrating a staunch commitment to these principles. “It is critically important to ensure that our individual liberties and economic freedoms are protected, and I’ve pledged to fight for principles of limited government to empower our citizens to thrive in a free enterprise system,” said Congressman Hice. “The federal government’s role should be to eliminate barriers to success, not create them. Rolling back burdensome, overbearing regulations and implementing meaningful tax reform – like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act – is necessary to preserving our liberty and supporting our small businesses and job creators. I am pleased to have FreedomWorks as a partner in this effort and appreciate their recognition. I am especially grateful to the people of Georgia’s 10th District for entrusting me with this duty.” “Congressman Hice has proven himself, time and time again, to be one of the most principled members of Congress,” said FreedomWorks Vice President of Legislative Affairs Jason Pye. “Last year, Congressman Hice cast votes to roll back crippling midnight regulations issued by the Obama administration. He voted for regulatory reform, to cut wasteful spending from appropriations bills, and to pass a historic tax reform bill. Congressman Hice has represented Georgia's 10th Congressional District well and his thoughtful, conservative approach to issues that come before him in committee or on the floor of the House is a model for others to follow.” Congressman Hice receives the 2017 Freedom Fighter Award In 2017, FreedomWorks scored key votes in favor of several issues, including resolutions of disapproval for onerous Obama-era regulations, amendments to appropriations bills that sought to eliminate wasteful spending, and a tax reform bill that has provided real tax relief for Americans and unleashed incredible economic growth. To view the scorecard, click here. ##
07.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), Vice Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, yesterday spoke with Melissa Francis on Fox Business’s After The Bell to discuss the testimony of FBI Deputy Assistant Director Peter Strzok before his participation in a joint hearing between the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the House Judiciary Committee on the “Oversight of FBI and DOJ Actions Surrounding the 2016 Election.” Highlights: “There are multiple questions that are emerging with this. Even the fact that there appears to be more than one copy of the dossier which started this whole thing. It in itself has multiple question marks, and red flags that go up.” “Quite frankly, Peter Strzok is being masterful at avoiding answering questions. In fact, in my opinion, his attitude and his unwillingness to be straightforward in his answers is exactly the attitude we’ve gotten from the FBI in requesting them to turn over documents for months and months and months: To do everything within their power, and today, with Peter Strzok, everything within his power to avoid being direct in his answers.” “[This is the] problem when you have a witness who is not forthcoming in his answers. Everyone goes away with basically no real new information, but I can assure you of this, Melissa, we’re going, we will take every step possible to get to the bottom of this, and we have given him an opportunity today to be honest, and he is taking every step he can to avoid being straightforward with us.” “We will continue fighting, and we’ll continue taking every step within our power to get answers and clean up corruption that exists in FBI.” Watch the full interview here. Congressman Hice interrogated FBI agent Peter Strzok on his political bias and actions at the FBI during the joint hearing. You can watch his questioning here. ##
07.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today welcomed Reverend J. Josh Smith of Prince Avenue Baptist Church in Athens, Georgia, as a guest chaplain for the U.S. House of Representatives. Immediately following Pastor Smith’s opening prayer to begin the legislative session, Representative Hice gave remarks welcoming his constituent. Watch Pastor Smith’s opening prayer here Text of Pastor Smith’s opening prayer: “Dear Father, we pray this morning the words of Psalm 67. ‘God, be gracious to us and bless us and cause your face to shine upon us that your way may be known on the earth of your salvation among all nations.’ “Father, we humbly acknowledge today how much we need you and we depend on you for everything. We acknowledge in desperation how much we need your grace, wisdom, favor, and blessing. And although you have already blessed us beyond measure, we unashamedly ask you for more of your blessing, not for our benefit alone, but that, through us and through every decision that is made in this place, all people and all nations might come to know your love, grace, kindness, mercy, and salvation. “And we ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ who died so that those who trust and follow Him might live forever. Amen.” Hice Welcomes Constituent and Pastor J. Josh Smith as Guest Chaplain on the House Floor Text of Hice’s remarks: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to welcome Reverend J. Josh Smith as our guest chaplain here at the U.S. House of Representatives, and I greatly appreciate him leading us in prayer this morning. “He's been serving in ministry for nearly 20 years. Josh has faithfully dedicated his life to the Gospel and currently serves as senior pastor of my home church, Prince Avenue Baptist Church, in the Athens, Georgia area. In addition to earning a Bachelor’s degree in cross-cultural studies, a Masters of Divinity, and Doctorate of Ministry and Expository Preaching, he's worked to spread God's word on both the national and international level. “As a pastor myself, it gives me absolute pleasure to recognize Josh for his spiritual leadership and guidance. Also, we welcome today his wife, Andrea, to the people's house, and we send our best wishes to their five children -- Lily, Gracie, Josie, Annie, and Josiah, who are back home in Georgia. “Mr. Speaker, I'd ask everyone to join me in thanking Pastor Smith for leading us today in opening this session in prayer. It's my deep privilege to not only be a member of his church, but to be a co-laborer with him for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm grateful for his outstanding spiritual leadership to the Athens community and the world abroad. “With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.” Background: Each Congress, U.S. Representatives have the opportunity to recommend one guest chaplain from their district to visit the U.S. Capitol and offer an opening prayer. J. Josh Smith is Congressman Hice’s first guest chaplain. Reverend J. Josh Smith was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and currently resides in Bogart, Georgia, where he serves as the Senior Pastor at Prince Avenue Baptist Church in Athens. In his ministry, he has worked with international students at Duke University in North Carolina, preached Sunday morning services at The Summit Church in Arkansas, and led MacArthur Boulevard Baptist Church in growing ethnically, socially, and generationally diverse as senior pastor in Texas. Reverend Smith’s international outreach extends beyond our borders to Central Europe, China, and Africa, where he has preached to local churches and villages and trained pastors and church leaders. He has also authored four writings, three of them published, which teach on different books of the Bible and exhortation in preaching. Congressman Hice with J. Josh and Andrea Smith of Bogart Representative Hice greets Pastor Smith and his wife Andrea on the Speaker’s Balcony Speaker Ryan meets Reverend Smith in the U.S. Capitol Building ##
07.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump announced Judge Brett Kavanaugh of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit as the nominee for Supreme Court Justice: “With President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court, another highly-qualified and independent jurist is positioned to take a seat on the Nation’s highest bench,” said Congressman Hice. “Judge Kavanaugh’s impressive record, fidelity to the Constitution, and respect for the rule of law speaks for itself, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to consider his appointment in a thoughtful and swift manner. I applaud President Trump for holding true to his promise to nominate a judge who interprets the Constitution as the Founders intended. While Senator Chuck Schumer and other Senate Democrats have already announced their intention to oppose any nominee, Judge Kavanaugh’s credentials will make that a tough sell to the American people.” ##
07.09.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff during the month of July. Mobile Office Hours provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “In a district that stretches across 25 counties, I’ve made it a priority to have members of my staff bring the services of my office directly to you,” said Congressman Hice. “If you have questions concerning Social Security benefits, immigration applications, veterans’ benefits, and other federal programs, I encourage you to stop by the Sandersville City Council Chambers, Dacula City Hall, or the Lincoln County Courthouse to receive one-on-one help.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations. Washington County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Thursday, July 19th 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Sandersville City Council Chambers 126 Malone Street Sandersville, GA 31061 Gwinnett County Wednesday, July 25th 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Dacula City Hall 442 Harbins Road Dacula, GA 30019 Lincoln County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, July 25th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Lincoln County Courthouse, Conference Room 210 Humphrey Street Lincolnton, GA 30817 Residents may also call or visit the Congressman’s offices in Monroe and Milledgeville during regular offices hours or in Thomson each Thursday. ###
07.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, July 12, 2018 at approximately 7:10 p.m., Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a telephone town hall to update constituents on current federal issues, legislative priorities, and the services his offices provide. During the town hall, constituents will have the opportunity to ask Representative Hice questions about Congressional matters, recent legislation, and issues concerning the 10th District and the State of Georgia. “Being accessible to my constituents is a top priority of mine,” said Congressman Hice. “I enjoy hosting telephone town hall events because it allows me to hear directly from residents across the 10th District about the issues that matter most to them. On the call, participants have the opportunity to communicate with me one-on-one from the convenience of their homes. With so much going on, I think it is important for people to personally hear from me about what I am doing in Washington to represent their interests and safeguard their freedoms.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: July Telephone Town Hall When: Thursday, July 12 from 7:10 p.m. – 8:10 p.m. This forum is open to the public. 10th District residents may pre-register and submit questions for the Telephone Town Hall HERE or call Representative Hice’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4101. Residents may also join the conference by calling 1-877-229-8493 and using the passcode 117571 or listen online at any point during the event. ##
06.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2019. This measure appropriates $674.6 billion for the Department of Defense for a full year, including $606.5 billion in base funding and $68.1 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. “A core duty of the federal government is to keep America safe and secure,” said Congressman Hice. “Today the House – through regular order – passed a strong defense appropriations bill that supports investments in our Armed Services to ensure maximum readiness and warfighting capability for our troops. This measure is a step forward as we work to tackle national security challenges around the world, and I’m glad this legislation delivers a much-needed pay raise to our heroes and their families. As we continue to address our current military readiness shortfalls, we must ensure that our men and women in uniform – who make tremendous sacrifices for our Nation – have the resources they need to be successful.” Specifically, this bill: · Fully funds the JSTARS recapitalization program and the Ohio-class submarine replacement. · Includes a 2.6% pay raise for military personnel; · Provides $34.4 billion to the Defense Health program, which provides high-quality medical care to troops, military families, and retirees; · Increases funding for research and development of new defense technologies to $92.4 billion; · Includes additional funding for F-35 Joint Strike Fighters; and · Fully funds cyber operations, including the U.S. Army’s Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon. For the full bill text of H.R. 6157, click here. ##
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), Vice Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, today spoke with Melissa Francis on Fox News’ Outnumbered Overtime to discuss the recent Inspector General report examining the actions of the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation ahead of the 2016 presidential election. Highlights: “We’ve had stonewalling for a year and a half with the documents and the information. We need to do our oversight, and Rosenstein has been right in the middle of that. He has shown a pattern of stonewalling without responding to subpoenas, without giving documents, even earlier this month, threatening staffers. We’ve got to get to the bottom of this and find out what really took place.” “There are three things we know from the I.G. report that came out a couple weeks ago: We know that in the Hillary investigation, there were FBI agents who were extremely biased against the president. Text after text, email after email clarifies that. Secondly, we know that many of these people not only were infected by their own bias, but they were willing to use their status and their position in the FBI to try to influence the election. We also know that many of them went to the Mueller probe, and they were involved. So we've got to get to the bottom of this.” “No American citizen should have the scales stacked against them when there's an investigation taking place. Here we know there was extreme bias against the president; they were willing to even try to alter the election when many of them were put on this Mueller investigation probe. So, we need to find out the list of who they are so that we can do our job of oversight to ensure that a fair investigation is taking place and that this is not a witch hunt.” “The American people now are familiar with Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, and they are becoming familiar with the name Kevin Clinesmith, but we know from the IG report that there were at least two more involved. We also know they were already part of the Mueller probe and that there were at least eight attorneys who have been strong supporters of the Democrat party, so we want to know who else is involved in this thing. We’ve got to have that list of names to vet it.” Watch the full interview here. ##
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after the passage of H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, known as the 2018 Farm Bill. “America’s farmers work hard every day to provide food and fiber to people worldwide, and I’m pleased that the 2018 Farm Bill outlines our country’s agriculture policy for the next several years,” said Congressman Hice. “This bill reinforces our commitment to farmers and ranchers from coast to coast and provides much-needed certainty to America’s agriculture community by supporting research and development, reauthorizing market access programs, and investing in the responsible conservation of natural resources.” “Furthermore, I’m glad this measure contains historic improvements to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to help recipients break the cycle of poverty by including work requirements for able-bodied adults receiving federal nutrition assistance and robustly funding workforce development programs,” Hice continued. “It also expands opportunities for rural broadband development in our communities and repeals the Obama-era regulatory power grab known as the Waters of the U.S. Rule (WOTUS). These commonsense improvements are an important step forward, and I look forward to supporting Georgia priorities as this measure moves to conference.” For a summary of H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, please click here. ##
06.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, recently introduced H.R. 6108, the Preserving America’s Battlefields Act, a bill to reauthorize the Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Program, a successful dollar-for-dollar grants program that promotes the preservation of Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil War battlefields. “Experiencing historically significant battlegrounds is incredibly moving and underscores the importance of preserving America’s most sacred sites,” said Congressman Hice. “There is no better setting for Americans to learn about the sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform than at the battlefields themselves. The reauthorization of the Battlefield Land Acquisition Grant Program will help ensure that generations of Americans can explore our history, heritage, and the lands that were once the scenes of our Nation’s most pivotal conflicts.” “The Battlefield Land Acquisition Grant Program is one of the most successful heritage land preservation programs in American history,” said Jim Lighthizer, President of the American Battlefield Trust. “Thanks to the support and leadership of Congress, nonprofits like the Trust have used the program to save more than 30,000 acres of hallowed ground. Building upon the program’s record of achievement will ensure our nation’s history is preserved for generations to come. We are grateful to Congressman Hice for his commitment to protecting America’s battlefields.” In February, Representative Hice joined former University of Georgia football coach and Civil War author Vince Dooley and representatives from the American Battlefield Trust to announce the acquisition of 180 acres for a crucial battlefield park in Wilkes County, Ga., scene of a key Revolutionary War conflict. The Preserving America’s Battlefields Act is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Tom Cole (R-OK), John Culberson (R-TX), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Henry C. "Hank," Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Derek Kilmer, (D-WA), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-AS), and Paul Cook (R-CA). ##
06.11.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff during the month of June. Mobile Office Hours provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “In a district that stretches across 25 counties, I’ve made it a priority to have members of my staff bring the services of my office directly to you,” said Congressman Hice. “If you have questions concerning Social Security benefits, immigration applications, veterans’ benefits, and other federal programs, I encourage you to stop by the Covington Historical Courthouse or the Monticello Government Complex to receive one-on-one help.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations. Newton County Wednesday, June 20th 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Covington Historical Courthouse 1124 Clark Street Covington, GA 30014 Jasper County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, June 20th 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Monticello Government Complex 119 W. Washington Street Monticello, GA 31064 Residents may also call or visit the Congressman’s offices in Monroe and Milledgeville during regular offices hours or in Thomson each Thursday. ###
06.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today announced that he will host his third telephone town hall of the year on Thursday, June 7, 2018, at 6:05 p.m. for residents of Georgia’s 10th Congressional District. This live event will include a brief legislative update by Representative Hice and opportunities for constituents to ask questions regarding current events and issues of concern. “In addition to my Coffee with Your Congressman events, constituent meetings, and business roundtables, I enjoy touching base with folks back home through regular telephone town halls,” said Congressman Hice. “These opportunities offer a convenient way for families to participate in the political process and share their concerns directly with me from the comfort of their own homes. From immigration reform to ensuring our national security, I always appreciate the chance to update you on where things stand in Congress and on the homefront.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: June Telephone Town Hall When: Thursday, June 7 from 6:05 p.m. – 7:05 p.m. This forum is open to the public. Residents may sign up to participate and submit questions by clicking here or calling Representative Hice’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4101. Constituents may also join the conference by calling 1-877-229-8493 and using the passcode 117571 or listen online at any point during the event. ##
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today applauded the House passage of H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. The bill authorizes $639.1 billion in base spending, disburses $69 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), and includes a number of provisions important to Georgia. “Keeping our Nation safe from the many threats facing us today, whether they be from state actors or terrorists, is the fundamental responsibility of the federal government,” said Congressman Hice. “This year’s NDAA builds on the momentum to close the readiness gap and reform our military after a decade of devastating cuts to defense spending. I’m grateful for the work of the many people involved in crafting this legislation to ensure that our men and women in uniform have access to the resources they need to combat the most complex and unpredictable challenges of our time.” “Given the substantial impact of the military in my local community and economy, I am pleased that this NDAA holds significant gains for Georgia and recognizes the state’s important role in safeguarding our national security,” Hice continued. Priorities benefitting Georgia include $99 million for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon in Augusta, $13.6 million for a Navy Reserve Training Center at Fort Benning in Columbus, and $31.9 million for a Welding and Body Repair Shop Facility at the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany. The House also adopted an amendment offered by Representative Hice to the FY’19 NDAA to limit the pensions of former presidents, update the pensions of surviving spouses, and reduce the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures by amending the Former Presidents Act of 1958. “Between movie contracts and book deals, most of our former commanders-in-chief are far from being strapped for cash,” Hice added. “The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act implements a fair way to reduce taxpayer support to those former presidents who simply do not need such assistance.” Additionally, two provisions authored by Representative Hice to strengthen cyber education were adopted during the HASC committee mark-up on Wednesday, May 9, 2018. The FY’19 NDAA also: · Provides our troops with a 2.6% pay raise, the largest in nine years; · Includes a breakthrough recapitalization strategy of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and advanced battle management systems; · Maintains restrictions against transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the United States; and · Approves requests from the Army, Navy, and Air Force for additional personnel. To view the full bill text, click here. For a comprehensive summary of the legislation, click here. ##
05.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), Vice Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, today spoke with Harris Faulkner on Fox News’ Outnumbered Overtime to discuss joining his colleagues in introducing a resolution calling on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to appoint a second special counsel. The resolution directs an investigation into matters associated with three topics: the ending of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's personal email server, the progress of the Trump-Russia investigation from its origins through the appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel, and the abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) during the warrant application process. On having a deal in place that says they’re going to look into whether someone infiltrated the Trump campaign: “It certainly is a step in the right direction, Harris. We have got to get to the bottom of this. Just to think of the possibility of our federal government spying on private citizens and infiltrating the Trump campaign is infuriating. It is as far away from what America is supposed to be as one can imagine….we are now calling for a second special counsel to take this thing even farther and get to the bottom of it.” Why a second special counsel?: “Because we haven’t gotten answers. Truth, justice, and transparency: these are pillars of our American government. They’re not partisan issues, and they are who we are as a Nation. The rule of law is our backbone, and when you have individuals high up in the FBI and the Department of Justice either ignoring the law or creating one of own of their own, we then, as Members of Congress, are accountable to hold them to the standard of law. We have not been able to get to that point yet, so a special counsel now is necessary in order to get to the bottom of what is going on.” On the President’s remarks, “If they had spies in my campaign that would be a disgrace, I hope there weren’t. It would be illegal and unprecedented.” “We had people in the DOJ and the FBI that did everything they could to make sure that Hilary Clinton was not going to be indicted, and at the same time doing everything they could to make sure that Donald Trump would not be the president, even to the extent of possibly infiltrating the campaign. This is unthinkable, and it’s something we absolutely got to get to the bottom of. Where heads need to roll, they need to roll, but the rule of law without any preferential treatment needs to be the high standard that we maintain.” Click here to watch the full interview. ##
05.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after returning from a Congressional Delegation visit to Israel. During the five-day engagement, Hice and other members of Congress met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman, and senior government officials to discuss the importance of the U.S.-Israeli alliance. On Monday, May 14, 2018, the delegation participated in the dedication ceremony of the new U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. “Israel remains one of our closest allies and a critical partner in the Middle East,” said Congressman Hice. “I was humbled to attend the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem, which underscores the deep friendship between our two nations and highlights our longstanding strategic alliance as we work to bring safety and stability to the region. With flagrant aggression from bad actors like Iran, this was also an important opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu, Ambassador Friedman, and other world leaders to evaluate our near and long-term challenges and strategies.” While meeting with officials, the delegation received a firsthand update on security risks facing the region and discussed the ongoing, on-the-ground security cooperation between the United States and Israel. Members also highlighted key provisions of H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019, which authorizes $500 million for the co-development of missile defense systems and co-production of Iron’s Dome, David’s Sling, and Arrow weapons systems in connection with Israel. “As a member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, I deeply value learning about our collaborative missile defense programs,” Hice continued. “Missile defense is a critical component of our partnership with Israel, and we must continue to support and strengthen efforts that advance our shared security interests.” The delegation meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu The delegation meeting with the Knesset’s Chairman of the Foreign Affairs & Defense Committee Avi Dichter The delegation meeting with senior adviser to the U.S. Ambassador to Israel Aryeh Lightstone Congressman Hice meets with the U.S. Ambassador to Israel David Friedman Congressman Hice in front of the Embassy of the United States in Jerusalem, Israel following the dedication ceremony Members of the delegation included: Representative Jody Hice (GA-10), HASC Readiness Subcommittee Chairman Joe Wilson (SC-02), Representative Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Representative Dennis Ross (FL-15), Representative Ron DeSantis (FL-06), Representative George Holding (NC-02), Representative Tom Rice (SC-07), Representative Steve Knight (CA-25), Representative Lee Zeldin (NY-01), and Representative Scott Taylor (VA-02). To view more photos from the CODEL, please click here. ##
05.14.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in May. Mobile Office Hours provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “Mobile Office Hours are perfect opportunities for people experiencing difficulties with federal agencies, like the Department of Veterans Affairs, Social Security Administration, and Medicare, to seek help from a knowledgeable member of my team,” said Congressman Hice. “There’s so much my office can do to help, including expediting passports to setting up tours for your family in our Nation’s capital. If you’d like to see what we can do for you, stop by the Heritage Senior Center in McDonough or the Harlem Library in Columbia County on the morning of Wednesday, May 23rd.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations. Henry County Wednesday, May 23rd 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Heritage Senior Center 1050 Florence McGarity Blvd. McDonough, GA 30252 Columbia County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, May 23rd 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Harlem Library, Meeting Room on 2nd Floor 145 North Louisville St. Harlem, GA 30814 Residents may also call or visit the Congressman’s offices in Monroe and Milledgeville during regular offices hours or in Thomson each Thursday. ###
05.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today praised the committee passage of H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, which sets Department of Defense (DOD) policy and authorizes funding levels for defense programs. The measure was approved out of the committee by a vote of 60 to 1. “The annual National Defense Authorization Act is the most substantive piece of legislation supporting our men and women in uniform, civilians, and their families, who work so hard to keep us safe at home and abroad,” said Congressman Hice. “Closing the readiness gap and ensuring that our warfighters have the necessary resources to complete their missions is critical to our national security, and I’m proud that the FY’19 NDAA continues our efforts to improve America’s capabilities.” The bill includes two amendments authored by Representative Hice. The first of these amendments authorizes the Secretary of Defense to establish a Cyber Institute at each of the senior military colleges, including the University of North Georgia in Dahlonega. On April 26, 2018, the entire Georgia Congressional Delegation signed a letter to Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) urging the inclusion of the amendment. The second amendment offered directs the Department of Defense to present a strategic plan to leverage and expand current partnerships with industry and academia on cyber education. “As we continue to face increased cyber threats and aggression from other nations, we must ensure that our military is prepared to address any challenge,” Hice continued. “By establishing Cyber Institutes at our senior military colleges and directing the DOD to leverage partnerships between industry and academic institutions on cyber education, we will help our future leaders develop a deep understanding of the cyber domain early in their lives.” The defense measure also contains several priorities benefitting Georgia, including $99 million for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon in Augusta, $13.6 million for a Navy Reserve Training Center at Fort Benning in Columbus, and $31.9 million for a Welding and Body Repair Shop Facility at the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany. “As the home of nine critical military installations, I’m pleased that the State of Georgia fulfills a vital role in safeguarding our Nation,” Hice remarked. “I’m also glad that the FY’19 NDAA authorizes the largest pay increase for our service members in nearly a decade, provides additional troops and manpower, and modernizes equipment and weapon systems to keep America safe and strong. I thank Chairman Thornberry and my colleagues for their work on this bill, and I look forward to its full consideration on the House Floor.” Key provisions of FY’19 NDAA proposal: · Sets topline funding at $717 billion; · Provides our troops with a 2.6% pay raise, the largest in nine years; · Allocates $144.53 million for military construction projects in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, Fort Gordon in Augusta, and Marine Corps Logistics Center in Albany; · Includes a breakthrough recapitalization strategy of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and advanced battle management systems; · Maintains restrictions against transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the United States; and · Approves requests from the Army, Navy, and Air Force for additional personnel. To view the full bill text, click here. For a comprehensive summary of the legislation, click here. ##
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after recently touring Fort Gordon in Augusta, Georgia. Ahead of the committee markup of H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, which will be held on Wednesday, May 9, 2018, Hice gained an enhanced understanding of the current status of activities at the installation and received briefings from base leaders. “As the home to the U.S. Cyber Center of Excellence, Fort Gordon is on the frontlines of our Nation’s cyber activity,” said Congressman Jody Hice. “This Georgia-based military installation operates as an epicenter for cyber security, technology, and workforce development, and every day, service members at Fort Gordon are actively strengthening America’s position in the world. I was grateful to visit with its commanders and the brave active duty members serving at our Nation’s cyber hub last week, while learning more about their mission, capabilities, and how we can help improve their ability to protect our Nation and defeat our adversaries.” Fort Gordon currently serves as the headquarters for the U.S Army Signal Corps, U.S. Army Cyber Corps, and U.S. Cyber Center of Excellence. The installation is also home to the National Security Agency (NSA)/Central Security Service (CSS) Georgia, the Regional Security Operations Center, the 7th Cyber Protection Brigade, the 782nd Military Intelligence Battalion, the 116th Military Intelligence Brigade, the 513th Military Intelligence Brigade, among others. “With the committee markup of this year’s NDAA, I look forward to continuing the discussion with my colleagues in the House as we work to construct a modern force utilizing the cutting-edge capabilities we are cultivating right here in the 10th District,” Hice continued. “The United States has the most capable and lethal military the world has ever seen, and the Augusta community will continue to play an integral role as we address future challenges in the emerging cyber domain.” Key provisions of FY’19 NDAA proposal: · Sets FY’19 NDAA funding at $717 billion; · Provides our troops with a 2.6% pay raise, the largest in nine years; · Allocates $144.53 million for military construction projects in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, Fort Gordon in Augusta, and Marine Corps Logistics Center in Albany; · Includes a breakthrough recapitalization strategy of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and advanced battle management systems; · Maintains restrictions against transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the United States; and · Approves requests from the Army, Navy, and Air Force for additional personnel. To view the full bill text, click here. For comprehensive summary of the legislation, click here. ##
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after President Trump announced the withdrawal of the United States from the Iran Nuclear Deal under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. “I’m glad President Trump has fulfilled his campaign pledge to withdraw the United States from the shameful and misguided Iran Nuclear Deal negotiated under the Obama Administration,” said Congressman Jody Hice. “Not only has the rogue nation never had any intention of discontinuing its development of nuclear weapons, but it has also sustained its state sponsorship of terrorism worldwide.” “There can be no gray area as we move forward on this issue, and I applaud the decision to re-impose sanctions,” Hice continued. “We cannot allow Iran to obtain nuclear weapons, and we cannot allow its subterfuge to continue. I look forward to working with our allies in Europe and across the Middle East on an agreement that ends Iran’s dangerous pursuit of nuclear weapons once and for all, while bringing peace and prosperity to the region and the people of Iran, who have suffered so greatly under the current tyrannical regime.” ##
04.30.2018	Monroe, GA – On Saturday, April 28th, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) unveiled the winning entry for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. During a public ceremony at the Monroe Art Guild, Congressman Hice revealed that Ray Borchers, a junior at Loganville High School, won 1st Place with her pencil sketch, entitled “Nate.” Ray will receive two airline tickets and an invitation to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C., where her artwork will hang for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Left to right: Kelly Still, Jordan Longenecker, Rep. Hice, Caroline May, & Ray Borchers Congressman Hice also announced the following additional awards: 2nd Place went to Caroline May from George Walton Academy; 3rd Place went to Jordan Longenecker from Walnut Grove High School; The Honorable Mention went to Annalynn Kendall from Loganville Christian Academy; and The People’s Choice Award went to Kelly Still from Monroe Area High School. “The Congressional Art Competition is a favorite among our students and one of the highlights of the year,” said Congressman Hice. “I applaud everyone who participated, especially this year’s winners, Ray, Caroline, Jordan, Annalynn, and Kelly, who worked so hard to enrich our community with their outstanding artistic talent. Ray’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol, alongside the masterpieces of contest winners nationwide, and I’m so proud of her achievement.” Sixty-four high school students from the 10th Congressional District participated in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Click HERE to view photos from Saturday’s ceremony.
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA) last week presented Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) with its 2018 “Thomas Jefferson Award,” given in recognition of his commitment to the American foodservice distribution industry and support of a free-enterprise system. “With the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we’re removing the barriers of big government and allowing businesses large and small to succeed and thrive,” said Congressman Hice. “The foodservice distribution industry is critical to restaurants and businesses throughout the State of Georgia and nationwide, and I am grateful to the IFDA for its advocacy on this important issue. I’m proud to vote in favor of legislation that promotes economic growth at every level, and I will continue to fight to advance policies that benefit the American consumer.” “The foodservice distribution industry plays a vital role in our economy and culture, providing pay and benefits well above the national average,” said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. “Congressman Hice recognizes the important contributions of this industry and his continued support is to be commended.” Representative Hice receives IFDA’s Thomas Jefferson Award from President and CEO Mark S. Allen and Executive Chairman of Dot Foods, Inc. and Chairman of the IFDA Board of Directors John Tracy Background: IFDA is a premier trade organization representing the foodservice distribution industry. With combined annual sales of almost $300 billion, foodservice distributors play a crucial role in our Nation’s economy, and this industry ensures a safe and efficient supply chain of food and products for more than one million restaurants and foodservice outlets in the U.S. every day. IFDA member companies operate more than 800 facilities in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and around the world. ##
04.16.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in partnership with Monroe Downtown and the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts, today announced that he will host the 2018 Congressional Art Competition student celebration on Saturday, April 28th. The event will begin at 10:00 a.m. and feature an artwork scavenger hunt at the Monroe Art Guild, located at 205 South Broad Street. Those who complete the hunt will be entered into a drawing for prizes. During the event, Congressman Hice will announce the winner of this year’s contest. “The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful opportunity to showcase the incredible talent of our students,” said Congressman Hice. “Thanks to Monroe Downtown and the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts, this event has become a community celebration and all are welcome to attend.” Sixty-four high school students from the 10th Congressional District have submitted their artwork for a chance to receive a trip to Washington, D.C. and the honor of having their entry displayed in the United States Capitol. While artists from the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts will decide who receives this top distinction, Georgia’s residents will determine the recipient of the People’s Choice Award. Click HERE to view the entries and to cast your vote. What: 2018 Congressional Art Competition Celebration Who: Congressman Jody Hice, 10th District students, and local residents When: Saturday, April 28, 2018 from 10:00 a.m. to noon Where: Monroe Art Guild 205 South Broad Street Monroe, GA ###
04.14.2018	MONROE, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement in response to the coordinated military strike in Syria by the United States, France, and the United Kingdom. “The unspeakable acts of violence committed by the Assad regime against innocent children, men, and women must be addressed,” said Congressman Hice. “For too long, the barbaric actions in Syria have gone unanswered. While questions remain regarding our long-term engagement with Syria, I support President Trump’s proportional step to join the U.K. and France in executing a precise, tactical military strike to hold the Assad regime accountable. I am grateful and will continue to pray for our brave men and women in uniform and our allied forces who put themselves in harm’s way in order to carry out this mission. As we move forward, it will be important for the Administration to engage with Congress and clearly communicate its strategy to the American people.” ##
04.13.2018	Monroe, GA – The office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in April. Mobile Office Hours provide residents the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his team in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “I understand the challenge of busy lives and hectic schedules and that not everyone has the opportunity to meet in our regular offices,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why we're bringing our office to you. If you need assistance with a federal agency, I encourage you to stop by the Sparta Public Library on Tuesday, April 24th or the McDuffie County Farm Bureau or the Madison-Morgan Chamber of Commerce on Friday, April 27th.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations. Hancock County Tuesday, April 24th 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Sparta Public Library, Historic Room 8794 E Broad Street Sparta, GA 31087 McDuffie County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Friday, April 27th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. McDuffie County Farm Bureau 619 Augusta Highway Thomson, GA 30824 Morgan County Friday, April 27th 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Madison-Morgan Chamber of Commerce 118 N Main Street Madison, GA 30650 Residents may also call or visit the Congressman’s offices in Monroe and Milledgeville during regular offices hours or in Thomson each Thursday. ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The American Conservative Union Foundation yesterday recognized Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) with its “Award for Conservative Excellence,” given in recognition of his commitment to America’s foundational principles and the U.S. Constitution. “It is a privilege to stand alongside the American Conservative Union as we work to cut taxes, reduce onerous regulations, secure our border, defend life, and repeal Obamacare,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to continued collaboration with the ACU to restore the conservative and constitutional fundamentals that make our country great.” “Rep. Hice consistently demonstrates his commitment to the conservative values Georgians believe in,” said ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp. “In addition to his important votes to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood, Georgians can be certain that they have elected a true conservative to represent them in Washington.” Representative Hice receives the Award for Conservative Excellence from ACU Executive Director Dan Schneider and ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp Background: Founded in 1973, the American Conservative Union Foundation (ACU) has served as a leading organization to advance the conservative principles of liberty, personal responsibility, traditional values, and a strong national defense. The ACU’s prestigious award is given to Members of Congress based on their adherence to these values. Hice received a 96% rating with ACU in 2017 and holds a lifetime record of 97.43%. Click HERE to read the full 2017 ACU ratings for the first session of the 115th Congress. ##
03.30.2018	Milledgeville, GA – On Friday, April 6, 2018, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at the Milledgeville-Baldwin County Chamber Of Commerce. Residents from Baldwin County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 12:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee. “Keeping in touch with residents from Georgia’s 10th District is vitally important to me,” said Congressman Hice. “Whether in-person at events like Friday’s coffee, during visits to local businesses, or via Telephone Town Halls, letters, or emails, I appreciate the perspective from folks on the ground, and I look forward to the chance to hear from you, answer your questions, and listen to the issues that matter to you most.” Friday, April 6, 2018 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m. Milledgeville-Baldwin County Chamber Of Commerce 130 S. Jefferson St. SE Milledgeville, GA 31061 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Milledgeville office at (478) 457-0007.
03.30.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in coordination with Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue and the Georgia Congressional Delegation, invites students to attend the annual statewide U.S. Military Service Academy Day on Saturday, April 28th at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. The event, which is the largest in the Nation of its kind, is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for applying to each of the military service academies. “Our service academies are premiere institutions, designed to educate, train, and inspire the next generation of military officers,” said Congressman Hice. “I encourage students to attend this important, informational event, which brings together representatives from the United States Air Force, Naval, Military, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marine Academies.” The Military Service Academy Day is free and open to students in grades eight through twelve. The event will take place from 10:00-11:30 AM at Dobbins Air Reserve Base located at 1408 Dobbins Place, Dobbins ARB, Marietta, GA 30069. Guests may arrive as early as 9:00 AM to clear security and to visit information tables. Due to the restrictions at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, all who plan to attend must register online no later than Monday, April 23rd at 5:00 p.m. Each person, including parents, who will attend Academy Day must register due to the requirements for entry onto the military base. What: Military Service Academy Day 2018 Who: America’s Service Academies Representatives and Students in Grades 8-12 When: Saturday, April 28, 2018 from 10:00-11:30 AM Where: Dobbins Air Reserve Base 1408 Dobbins Place, Hangar 5 Marietta, GA 30069 Students who are unable to attend may visit Congressman Hice’s website for more information about academy nominations. ###
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The 60 Plus Association recently presented Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) with its coveted Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award, given in recognition of his commitment to America’s seniors and fiscally conservative legislative initiatives in the 115th Congress. “As someone who represents a large number of seniors, I take the responsibility of protecting our older citizens seriously,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m grateful to the 60 Plus Association for recognizing my work on behalf of our Nation’s seniors, many of whom simply want a safer world, a stronger economy, and a promising future for their children and grandchildren. My votes in Washington reflect those priorities, including protecting the benefits they have earned and were promised. I remain committed to upholding our promise to the seniors of the 10th District, while placing our country back on a fiscally responsible track, which is critical not only for today’s seniors, but for generations to come.” In a statement released by 60 Plus, Legendary entertainer Pat Boone, National Spokesman for the 60 Plus Association, remarked, “I’m still singing at concerts, but today I’m singing the praises of Jody Hice. Seniors can depend on Jody Hice.” Boone is familiar to audiences as a star of music, film and television and has had 38 top-ten hits since his recording career began in the 1950s. According to Billboard magazine, he holds the record for the most consecutive weeks (220) on the charts by any performer. “The Guardian Award is given to members in appreciation of their tireless efforts on behalf of senior citizens, as so many of our elderly struggle on a fixed income,” said 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin. Seniors have to live within their means and so should our government. Rep. Hice will fight to end the 'Death Tax,' which negatively impacts small businesses, farmers and ranchers throughout the Nation We also particularly appreciate the efforts by Rep. Hice to assure the financial stability of Social Security and Medicare.” “That’s why Representative Jody Hice has earned the Association’s highest award, and it’s my honor to personally present it,” Martin emphasized. 60 Plus Association President Jim Martin honors Congressman Hice with the Guardian of Seniors Rights award The non-partisan 60 Plus Association, with 7.2 million members nationally, grants its Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award annually to Members of Congress who are vocal leaders on issues facing senior. The advocacy group is dedicated to less government and free enterprise. To learn more about 60 Plus and the award, please visit their website at www.60plus.org. ##
03.23.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today issued the following statement on the passing of former Georgia Governor and U.S. Senator Zell Miller: “Today is a sad day for the State of Georgia as we mourn the loss of an icon who fearlessly advocated for our state,” said Congressman Hice. “We, as Georgians, are grateful for Zell Miller’s principled leadership and service to our state and our country. His public service and commitment to serving the people of Georgia remains unparalleled. He was a trailblazer and role model for many who would follow in his footsteps. It is with great sadness and respect that I extend my deepest condolences to the Miller family, especially his wife, Shirley, his children and grandchildren, and his many friends. I hope it is a comfort to his family and friends that so many people share their tremendous loss and are praying for them in this difficult time.” ##
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), vice-chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, today praised the passage of H.R. 4467, the Strengthening Aviation Security Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives. This measure, which Hice introduced in November of 2017, requires that the Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS) deploy its personnel for domestic and international flight coverage using risk-based strategies. “We must improve our current practices to prevent airplanes from being turned into weapons of war by those who seek to do us harm,” said Congressman Hice. “Unless the Federal Air Marshal Service adequately incorporates risk into its strategies that determine which flights to cover, there is no way to guarantee that the flights at greatest risk for a terrorist attack have federal air marshals on board.” “With the passage of my legislation, the Strengthening Aviation Security Act, we are one step closer to directly reducing risks to airline passengers,” Hice continued. “I’m grateful for the bipartisan support of my colleagues, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act upon this legislation quickly.” Hice Promotes Aviation Security Measure on House Floor “Aviation remains a top target for terrorists, and without question, there should be no stone left unturned when it comes to the safety and security of the American people,” said House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul. “By integrating risk-based strategies into the process of determining which flights air marshals cover, we will better protect our Nation’s airspace and air travelers. I’m pleased Congressman Hice’s commonsense measure passed the House, and I will continue to work with him to secure American airports.” Background: FAMS is a U.S. law enforcement agency within the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that deploys federally-trained air marshal agents on U.S. aircraft worldwide. In 2016, the Government Accountability Office published a report that found that TSA and FAMS fail to adequately factor in risk when determining its deployment strategies. Under the current system, FAMS considers its travel budget and number of personnel as factors to determine how to allocate its resources for international and domestic flights, but does not account for risk in the decision-making process. For domestic missions, allocation decisions are made based on the professional judgement of subject matter experts, not on risk-assessments. Further, this report found that FAMS does not document the reasons for its international deployment decisions. Without this vital information, there is no verifiable method to determine whether the decisions are intelligence-driven, risk-based, or even in compliance with TSA or DHS directives. The measure reported out of the Homeland Security Committee by unanimous consent on March 7, 2018. On November 27, 2017, the Air Marshal Association wrote a letter in support of the legislation. The Strengthening Aviation Security Act would: Require FAMS to use risk management, travel budget, and number of air marshal personnel when distributing resources between domestic and international flight coverage; Conduct a threat assessment to support domestic deployment decisions; and Provide Congress with the documented methodology used by FAMS to conduct risk assessments. The full bill text can be found here. ##
03.22.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today reminded students in grades nine through twelve that the deadline for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition is quickly approaching. Students wishing to participate should submit their artwork to one of the Congressman’s three district offices by Thursday, April 5th. The winning artist will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and will be awarded with a trip to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception with other student winners from across the Nation. “Each year, I look forward to hosting the Congressional Art Competition for students in the 10th District,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m always amazed by the enthusiasm and talent of our young people and appreciate the opportunity to showcase their artwork to the community and feature one, special piece to represent our district in our Nation’s capital.” Contestants must fill out a student release form and ensure that their artwork complies with competition guidelines. Congressman Hice will announce the winner and present awards for the top entries on Saturday, April 28th during a reception at the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts. For details and more information, please visit Congressman Hice’s website at www.hice.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-growth policies in the first session of the 115th Congress. “I’ve made it a top priority to get our economy moving in the right direction,” said Congressman Hice after receiving the award. “Legislation, like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that makes it easier for businesses to expand and hire new employees means heftier paychecks and better benefits, which empowers families to utilize that extra money where they see fit. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce assists state and local Chamber groups in helping our businesses thrive, and it’s an honor to be recognized for my work to reduce the burden on small businesses and job creators so that our economy can create good jobs for Georgians and for all Americans.” “It’s a good time to be doing business in America, thanks to a slate of legislative accomplishments that laid the groundwork for more economic growth and job creation,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “These efforts to advance commonsense, growth-oriented legislation will help Main Street American businesses thrive. We commend Representative Hice for his commitment to promoting and protecting American free enterprise and economic prosperity.” Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, presents Congressman Hice with Spirit of Enterprise Award The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to Members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s annual scorecard, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the first session of the 115th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 14 House, including votes on tax reform legislation, access to Medicare, and lawsuit abuse. Various votes in support of small business were also scored. Hice received a 93% rating with the Chamber in 2017. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. ##
03.15.2018	Thomson, GA – On Wednesday, March 28, 2018, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will participate in the unveiling ceremonies for two sets of historical documents, entitled the Foundations of American Law & Government, which will be prominently featured at the Glascock and Jefferson County courthouses. Congressman Hice will meet with community members to discuss the significance of the display at the Glascock County Courthouse at 9:00 a.m. and the Jefferson County Courthouse at 10:00 a.m. “Six years ago, I was privileged to stand with Governor Nathan Deal as he signed a law that permits this collection of historical documents to be displayed in any public building,” said Congressman Hice. “It was the culmination of work I undertook as a private citizen long before I became a member of Congress, so it gives me great pleasure to participate in the dedication ceremonies of this important display in both Gibson and Louisville. I invite everyone to join me at the courthouses in Glascock and Jefferson Counties as we celebrate the foundation of our American constitutional law.” The Foundations of American Law & Government display contains documents that played a significant role in the foundation of our system of law and government, including the Ten Commandments, Mayflower Compact, and Declaration of Independence. In Louisville, the portraits of the men who served as governor when Louisville was the capital of Georgia will also be unveiled. Wednesday, March 28, 2018 9:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Dedication of Historical Document Display Glascock County Government Center 62 East Main Street Gibson, GA 30810 10:00 a.m. – 10:45 a.m. Dedication of Historical Document Display & Gubernatorial Portraits Jefferson County Government Center 202 East Broad Street Louisville, GA 30434 ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) was recently named an honoree of the True Blue Award, a distinction that the Family Research Council (FRC) Action gives to Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom. Hice received a perfect 100 percent rating for votes cast during the first session of the 115th Congress. “As someone who stands for pro-family issues and the defense of life, I am humbled to be recognized as a ‘True Blue’ honoree,” said Congressman Hice. “Advancing the values of faith, family, and freedom is a task that I take very seriously, and I will continue to work tirelessly as an advocate for these principles in Congress.” “We thank Rep. Hice for consistently voting to defend and advance faith, family and freedom,”said Tony Perkins, President of the Family Research Council. “As a 'True Blue Member' he voted 100 percent on FRC Action’s Scorecard including votes to repeal and replace Obamacare, deliver long-needed tax cuts that are already providing much needed relief to working families, stand for religious liberty, overturn President Obama’s transgender military policy, end the forced partnership between taxpayers and Planned Parenthood, and protect pain capable babies.” “Rep. Hice deserves praise for his unwavering commitment to stand for life, family, marriage, and religious liberty,” continued Perkins. “Georgians should be encouraged to know that they have a Member of Congress such as Rep. Hice who has come alongside other members and our president to begin the work of rebuilding our nation, and protecting the very values that made America great.” Congressman Jody Hice receives the True Blue award from FRC Action President Tony Perkins Background: Founded in 1992, FRC Action advances our Nation’s most fundamental values of faith, family, and freedom. The True Blue award is given annually to Members of Congress who consistently support conservative, pro-life, and pro-family legislation. The 2017 scorecard contains 9 votes in the House. Click HERE to read FRC Action’s scorecard for the first session of the 115th Congress.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), vice-chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, today applauded the unanimous passage of H.R. 4467, the Strengthening Aviation Security Act, through the House Homeland Security Committee. This measure, which Hice introduced in November, mandates that the Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS) deploy its personnel for domestic and international flight coverage using risk-based strategies. “With escalating threats across the globe, we must remain a step ahead of our adversaries by taking every precaution to protect our skies,” said Congressman Hice. “My bill, the Strengthening Aviation Security Act, will institute much-needed guidelines when it comes to where and how FAMS allocates its air marshals.” “In order to avoid future attacks on our planes, it’s necessary that we use both qualitative and quantitative threat assessments to ascertain which flights are most at risk,” Hice continued. “We need to be using every tool at our disposal to deter, detect, and disrupt plots to undermine or attack our flights. I’m very proud that my bill has passed committee, and I’m hopeful that this commonsense and bipartisan bill will continue moving through the legislative process.” Background: FAMS is a U.S. law enforcement agency within the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that deploys federally-trained air marshal agents on U.S. aircraft worldwide. In 2016, the Government Accountability Office published a report that found that TSA and FAMS fail to adequately factor in risk when determining its deployment strategies. Under the current system, FAMS considers its travel budget and number of personnel as factors to determine how to allocate its resources for international and domestic flights, but does not account for risk in the decision process. For domestic missions, allocation decisions are made based on the professional judgement of subject matter experts, not on risk-assessments. Further, this report found that FAMS does not document the reasons for its international deployment decisions. Without this vital information, there is no verifiable method to determine whether the decisions are intelligence-driven, risk-based, or even in compliance with TSA or DHS directives. On November 27, 2017, the Air Marshal Association wrote a letter in support of the legislation. The Strengthening Aviation Security Act would: · Require FAMS to use risk management, travel budget, and number of air marshal personnel when distributing resources between domestic and international flight coverage; · Conduct a threat assessment to support domestic deployment decisions; and · Provide Congress with the documented methodology used by FAMS to conduct risk assessments. The full bill text can be found here. ###
03.02.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in March. Mobile Office Hours provide residents the opportunity to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff in their own community to discuss concerns, share priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “If you need assistance with any federal agency,” said Congressman Hice, “from Social Security to Medicare to the Department of Veterans Affairs, or if there is an important item to bring to my attention, I encourage you to stop by one of my upcoming Mobile Office Hours. It’s a great opportunity to meet with a trusted member of my team, who will work on your behalf to answer questions, find solutions, and cut through the red tape.” Residents may meet on an individual or family basis with a constituent services representative at one of the following locations. A staff member from Senator David Perdue’s office will also be at each event. Butts County, GA Wednesday, March 21st 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Butts County Administration Building 625 W. 3rd Street Jackson, GA 30233 Taliaferro County, GA Wednesday, March 21st 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Taliaferro County Senior Center 119 Commerce Street Crawfordville, GA 30631 Johnson County, GA Thursday, March 22nd 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Johnson County Senior Citizens Center 108 Hilton Holton Street Wrightsville, GA 31096 Residents may also call or visit the Congressman’s offices in Monroe and Milledgeville during regular offices hours or in Thomson on Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. ###
03.01.2018	MONROE, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced today that he is inviting students in grades nine through twelve to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The winning artist will receive round-trip tickets to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C., and his or her artwork will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. “Each year, I look forward to hosting the Congressional Art Competition for students in the 10th District,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m always amazed by the enthusiasm and talent of our young people and appreciate the opportunity to showcase their artwork to the community and feature one, special piece to represent our district in our Nation’s capital.” Students may access the Student Information and Release Form and competition guidelines online at www.hice.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. All entries must be original in concept and design and submitted to one of the Congressman’s three district offices by 5:00 p.m. Thursday, April 5th. Congressman Hice will announce the winner and present awards for the top entries on Saturday, April 28th during a reception at the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts. For questions regarding contest details, contact Benjamin Stout at (770) 207-1776 or Ben.Stout@mail.house.gov. ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today announced he will host his second live telephone town hall of the year on Thursday, February 15th, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. for residents living in Georgia’s 10th Congressional District. During the conference call, Hice will provide a legislative update and take questions from participants on the critical issues facing Congress and the American people. “From national security to immigration reform to infrastructure and beyond, there are many important issues on the agenda in the coming weeks and months,” said Congressman Hice. “I am eager to share updates with you as we continue to discuss the challenges confronting America. We'll have a lot to talk about, and I hope you’ll join me on Thursday evening.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: February Telephone Town Hall When: Thursday, February 15th from 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. The forum is open to the public. Residents may sign up to participate and submit questions by clicking here or calling Representative Hice’s Washington D.C. office at 202-225-4101. Constituents may also join the conference by calling (855) 756-7520 and using the passcode Ext. 38831# at any point during the event. ##
02.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – FreedomWorks recently named H.R. 3739, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act, a measure sponsored by Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), as its “Bill of the Month” for February 2018. This legislation limits the pensions of former presidents, updates the pensions of surviving spouses, and reduces the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures by amending the Former Presidents Act of 1958. “I’m pleased that my Presidential Allowance Modernization Act has been featured as FreedomWorks’ Bill of the Month,” said Congressman Hice. “This simple legislation is designed to end unnecessary federal payments to former presidents who earn a substantial income from post-presidential work – separate from their taxpayer-funded pensions. History shows that former presidents often make millions of dollars after completing their tenure as Commander in Chief, rendering their pensions a wasteful use of taxpayer dollars. I’m hopeful that the Senate will consider this bipartisan, commonsense bill.” “With this bill, Representative Jody Hice has his finger on some spending that is outdated and should be easily approved on a bipartisan basis,” said Jason Pye, Vice President of Legislative Affairs at FreedomWorks. “In fact, it was passed in the last Congress, but, of course, it was vetoed by Barack Obama. We applaud Rep. Hice for sponsoring the bill, and we hope that the Senate will soon consider it and send it to President Trump's desk.” The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act was introduced on September 12, 2017 by Hice and streamlines the wide range of benefits provided to former presidents by taking into account the modern-day financial realities they face after leaving office. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA). The measure passed the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on September 13, 2017 with unanimous, bipartisan support. The companion bill passed the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on October 4, 2017. H.R. 3739 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote on November 13, 2017. The full bill text can be found here. ##
02.05.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) will present a Regional Application-Writing Workshop on February 28th at the University of Georgia Center for Continuing Education in Athens. The workshop is supported by the University of Georgia Office of Research and is hosted by the Willson Center for Humanities and Arts and the Franklin College of Arts and Sciences, in partnership with Georgia Humanities. The workshop will include an overview of NEH endowment programs and special initiatives followed by a mock panel review session that will offer strategies for developing strong applications. “I am so pleased that the National Endowment for the Humanities, which is one of the largest funders of humanities programs in the United States, is ensuring that resources are accessible to organizations here in Georgia,” said Congressman Hice. “If you’re affiliated with a university, local museum, library, or other educational nonprofit, I encourage you to attend this free workshop to receive information about grant opportunities and guidance on writing an effective grant. Additionally, my staff will be present and available to answer questions about how we may help in the grant seeking process.” What: NEH Regional Application-Writing Workshop When: 8:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Wednesday, February 28, 2018 Where: UGA Center for Continuing Education & Hotel 1197 South Lumpkin Street, Athens, GA 30602 NEH Senior Program Officer Dr. Daniel Sack will lead the presentation. He will also be available for a limited number of one-on-one consultations on Wednesday, February 28th from 2:00 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. and Thursday, March 1st from 8:30 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. To schedule a 20-minute appointment, please contact Dr. Lloyd Winstead, Senior Associate Director at the Willson Center, at winstead@uga.edu. The deadline to register for the workshop or a consultation is February 14th. Click HERE for pre-registration and to view the workshop agenda. ###
02.01.2018	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in February. Members of his constituent services team regularly hold Mobile Office Hours in various communities in order to help constituents who are having problems with federal agencies, such as the Social Security Administration and Department of Veterans Affairs. This month, his staff will be in Watkinsville, Sandersville, and Wrens. “Directly connecting Georgia families with the help and resources they need is one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Hice. “If you need assistance with any federal agency, I encourage you to stop by the Oconee County Chamber of Commerce on Friday, February 16th, Sandersville City Hall on Tuesday, February 20th, or the Rabun Community Center on Friday, February 23rd.” Constituents will have the opportunity to meet on an individual or family basis with a member of Congressman Hice’s constituent services team at one of the following locations: Oconee County, GA Friday, Feb. 16th 10:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Oconee County Chamber of Commerce 55 Nancy Drive Watkinsville, GA 30677 Washington County, GA (Sens. Johnny Isakson & David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Tuesday February 20th 11:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. Sandersville City Hall Conference Room 141 W. Haynes Street Sandersville, GA 31082 Jefferson County, GA (A member from Sen. Perdue’s staff will also be present) Friday, February 23rd 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Rabun Community Center Wrens City Hall 101 McNair Street Wrens, GA 30833 Constituents may also call or visit the Congressman’s offices in Monroe and Milledgeville during regular offices hours or in Thomson on Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. ###
02.01.2018	Monroe, GA – On Monday, February 12, 2018, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will join Campaign 1776, an initiative of the Civil War Trust, as they announce a major preservation victory at Kettle Creek battlefield in Wilkes County, Ga., scene of a pivotal Revolutionary War combat. Congressman Hice will participate in a news conference with Vince Dooley, former University of Georgia football coach and Civil War author, James Lighthizer, President of the Civil War Trust, and other historic preservation leaders. The Trust preserves battlefields of the American Revolution, War of 1812, and Civil War. Congressman Hice is a strong advocate for preserving America’s historic battlefields. Dooley, twice named National Coach of the Year, led the University of Georgia’s football team to its 1980 National Championship. He chairs the Georgia Historical Society and is a Civil War Trust board member and author of The Legion's Fighting Bulldog: The Civil War Correspondence of William Gaston Delony, Lieutenant Colonel of Cobb's Georgia Legion Cavalry, and Rosa Delony, 1853-1863. The Battle of Kettle Creek, fought on February 14, 1779, was a surprise victory for the Continental Army and presaged later American successes in the southern states. WHAT: Historic Preservation Announcement at Kettle Creek Battlefield Park WHO: Congressman Jody Hice, Coach Vince Dooley, Civil War Trust President James Lighthizer, and other historic preservation leaders WHEN: Monday, Feb. 12, 2018 at 2 p.m. WHERE: Kettle Creek Battlefield Park, at end of War Hill Road, nine miles southwest of Washington, Ga., off Georgia Route 44 Send RSVPs and questions to rsvp@civilwar.org. Follow Campaign 1776 signs for parking. Event will feature refreshments, music, musketry, and living historians. For a map of the event location, visit: https://binged.it/2CdwT7u. Drivers using GPS may enter 3385-3151 Court Ground Road, Washington, Ga. to bring them to the beginning of War Hill Road. Campaign 1776 is an initiative of the Civil War Trust, America’s largest nonprofit battlefield preservation organization. Its purpose is to protect the battlefields of the Revolutionary War and War of 1812. ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 695, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018. This measure appropriates $659.2 billion for the Department of Defense for a full year, including $584 billion in base funding and $75.1 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. “It is absolutely critical that we provide predictable, consistent, and uninterrupted funding to our military to ensure that they have the resources necessary to successfully carry out their missions,” said Congressman Hice. “While I’m frustrated that the Senate has not yet brought either of the House-passed appropriations bills to the Floor, I’m hopeful that they will take action to ensure that our Armed Forces have the tools they require to protect and defend our homeland. The American people must have full confidence in our government to fulfill its most fundamental responsibility to keep our citizens safe, and I am proud to have voted – again – to support our men and women in uniform.” Specifically, this bill: · Adds $4.7 billion in emergency missile defense programs and ship-repair funds to bolster our Navy; · Authorizes a 2.4% pay raise for military personnel; · Provides $34 billion to the Defense Health program, which provides high-quality medical care to troops, military families, and retirees; · Increases funding for research and development of new defense technologies to $84.3 billion; · Includes additional funding for increased intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in South Asia as part of Operation Freedom’s Sentinel; · Fully funds cyber operations, including the U.S. Army’s Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon. For the full bill text of H.R. 695, click here. ##
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) tonight issued the following statement after President Trump’s first State of the Union address: “The State of the Union is always a very special occasion, presenting an opportunity for the three branches of government to come together and reflect on the well-being of our Nation,” said Congressman Hice. “During tonight’s speech, President Trump demonstrated that he is listening to the American people, and he set an important tone in which he emphasized national security, economic opportunity, and rebuilding America.” “I share President Trump’s optimism and vision for our country and believe that we will continue to excel,” Hice continued. “America is strong, and Americans will continue to demonstrate the courage and boldness that defines our Nation. By harnessing the powerful impact of tax reform, empowering American families, and ensuring the safety and security of our Nation by restoring our military strength, we are working to build a better America.” ##
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today applauded the passage of H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which prohibits a health care professional from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives an attempted abortion. It also requires the practitioner to ensure that the child is immediately transported and admitted to a hospital, while establishing strong criminal penalties for violating the requirement. “At the heart of this debate is Life,” said Congressman Hice. “And every life – born and unborn – is worthy of protection. Today’s passage of the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act sends a clear message by establishing real consequences for those who kill or abandon innocent children after they leave their mother’s womb. While it’s disheartening that this type of horrific practice needs Congressional action to correct, I am pleased we took action today.” “The priority of health care providers is and should be caring for life,” Hice continued. “Abandoning newborn children directly violates that fundamental tenet. I’m grateful that this law will hold doctors and medical professionals accountable, and I’m hopeful more legislation that promotes the culture of life, like H.R. 490, the Heartbeat Protection Act, will soon come to the House Floor for a vote.” Ahead of this year’s March for Life rally in Washington, D.C., Representative Hice participated in a special order on the House Floor to advance the culture of life. Hice Defends Life on the House Floor The full bill text can be found here. ##
01.18.2018	Monroe, GA – On Tuesday, January 23, 2018, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at the Henry County Chamber of Commerce in McDonough. Residents from Henry County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee. “Keeping in touch with residents from Georgia’s 10th District is vitally important to me,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to the chance to engage with you, answer your questions, and listen to the issues that matter to you most.” Tuesday, January 23, 2018 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 12:30 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. Henry County Chamber of Commerce 1709 Highway 20 West McDonough, GA 30253 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Monroe office at (770) 207-1776. ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, today applauded the committee’s passage of H.R. 553, which designates Gravelly Point Park, along the George Washington Parkway in Arlington County, Virginia, as the Nancy Reagan Memorial Park. “With her focus on improving the lives of our veterans and decreasing drug use among our Nation’s youth through the ‘Just Say No’ program, Nancy Reagan was one of the most influential First Ladies of our time,” said Congressman Hice. “Mrs. Reagan was a leading example of elegance and class, and her passing in 2016 left an ache in the hearts of many Americans that has yet to be repaired. As President Reagan’s partner and confidante, she understood that public service is a noble duty and demonstrated that by touching our communities with a gentle hand. Following his death, her strength in building the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Institute and advocacy in the fight against Alzheimer’s were truly remarkable.” “Renaming Gravelly Point Park the Nancy Reagan Memorial Park would pair the adjacent landing stripe with the gateway to the Nation’s capital that bears the name of her husband and our 40th President,” Hice continued. “I cannot think of a more fitting tribute for the service of a beloved First Lady, while forever cementing a piece of the Reagan Family legacy on the East Coast. I look forward to the bill’s consideration on the House Floor.” Gravelly Point Park is located adjacent to the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, which was renamed in honor of former President Reagan on his 87th Birthday in 1998. It is a popular place for families to picnic, bike, and watch planes, while enjoying the DC landscape in the background. On June 13, 2016, Americans for Tax Reform expressed its support of the legislation. To watch Congressman Hice’s remarks during the committee markup, click here. ##
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today announced he will host a live telephone town hall on Thursday, January 18th at 6:00 p.m. for residents living in Georgia’s 10th Congressional District. During the conference call, Hice will discuss his recent appointment to the House Armed Services Committee, the benefits of tax reform, and the federal budget, while also taking questions on the critical issues facing Congress and the American people. “It’s important to me that I hear directly from the people I represent,” said Congressman Hice. “My goal is to stay accountable and accessible to my constituents each year, and that’s why I regularly hold town hall meetings over the phone. I hope you’re able to participate in this upcoming call to share your ideas and discuss your concerns with me.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: January Telephone Town Hall When: Thursday, January 18th from 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. The forum is open to the public. Residents may sign up to participate and submit questions by clicking here or calling Representative Hice’s Washington D.C. office at 202-225-4101. Constituents may also join the conference by calling (855)-756-7520 and using the passcode Ext.38386# at any point during the event. ##
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today announced his appointment to the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) in the 115th Congress. As a new HASC member, Congressman Hice will help develop and implement our Nation’s defense priorities and military policy. Hice joins Representative Austin Scott (GA-08) on the HASC – and Senator David Perdue on the Senate Armed Services Committee – as frontline advocates for Georgia’s nine military installations. “The Constitution bestows upon Congress the solemn responsibility for raising and regulating our Nation’s Armed Forces,” said Congressman Hice. “I am honored to be appointed to the House Armed Services Committee and look forward to serving in this new role. The State of Georgia has a strong military presence with nine critical military installations and hundreds of thousands of veterans and active duty servicemembers. I’m humbled by the opportunity to strengthen our national security and support the brave men and women who defend our Nation.” “To sustain the best fighting force the world has ever seen, we must provide our military with the resources necessary to fulfill this mission,” continued Hice. “I’m eager to get to work on the most urgent security matters facing America, including combatting terrorism, rebuilding and modernizing our military, and securing the homeland.” “As we work to rebuild and reform America’s military, we need Members who can offer constructive and varied insight into the complex issues facing our Nation,” said House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX). “Because Georgia plays a critical role in our military with facilities like Army Cyber Command at Fort Gordon, Congressman Hice’s perspective will be a valuable addition to the House Armed Services Committee, and I look forward to working with him in support of all of our men and women in uniform.” HASC is the authorizing committee for the Department of Defense, military research, and national security components of nuclear energy at the Department of Energy. Hice will continue to serve as a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the House Natural Resources Committee. ##
01.10.2018	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced the names of the high school and college students whom he nominated for appointments to America’s Service Academies. He also extended his congratulations to Tyler Davis of Covington, the first of his nominees to receive academy appointments this year. Tyler received offers of appointments to the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, and the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. “It is my honor to nominate these exceptional students who are pursuing paths of leadership in our Armed Forces," said Congressman Hice. “They have distinguished themselves among their peers by demonstrating the highest attributes of character, scholarship, physical aptitude, leadership, and motivation. I’m confident that each of these students would excel at the academies and serve our Nation with honor and distinction. And a hearty congratulations to Tyler Davis on his appointments to the U.S. Military, Naval, and Air Force academies! He is truly a remarkable young man with extraordinary promise, and I look forward to seeing which academy he chooses.” Congressman Hice has the privilege of nominating eligible students to the United States Air Force (USAFA), Naval (USNA), Military (USMA), and Merchant Marine (USMMA) Academies. Students who attend a U.S. Service Academy commit to serving at least five years in their respective military branch upon graduation. Securing a nomination is a required step in the academy application process. After consulting with his Academy Selection Board, Congressman Hice submitted for nomination the following eighteen students: 1. Briana Choy (Locust Grove, GA), Locust Grove High School 2. Keaton Colletti (Bogart, GA), North Oconee High School 3. Garrett Dalley (Dacula, GA), Riverside Military Academy 4. Tyler Davis (Covington, GA), Eastside High School – received appointments to United States Military, Naval, and Air Force academies 5. Kaylon Farley (Milledgeville, GA), Georgia Military College Prep School 6. Elena Guerra (Buford, GA), Mill Creek High School 7. Doster Harper (Covington, GA), Eastside High School 8. Robert Hatfield (Greensboro, GA), Lake Oconee Academy 9. Ryan Heger (Appling, GA), Greenbrier High School 10. Liam Hulstine (Bowden, GA), Central Carroll High School 11. Davis Isley (Milledgeville, GA), Georgia Military College Prep School 12. Ryan Lamp (Dacula, GA), Dacula High School 13. Austin Mallory (Jackson, GA), Rock Springs Christian Academy 14. Thomas Mims (Buckhead, GA), Auburn University 15. Forde Norris (Athens, GA), Marion Military Institute 16. Gavin Perlman (Bishop, GA), Oconee High School 17. Richard Salies (McDonough, GA), Georgia State University 18. Lauren Sidow (Evans, GA), Greenbrier High School ###
01.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Monday, January 8th, the University of Georgia and the University of Alabama will compete in the College Football Playoff National Championship in Atlanta, Georgia. Representatives Jody Hice (GA-10), who represents UGA, and Terri Sewell (AL-07), who represents UA, today announced a friendly bet on which team would take home the coveted trophy. “This Monday, the only thing sweeter than the taste of Alabama Dreamland ribs will be the taste of victory when the Crimson Tide takes home their 17th national title,” said Rep. Terri Sewell. “I look forward to seeing Rep. Jody Hice wear the Crimson and White on the Capitol steps and yell, ‘Roll Tide!’. There will be no better way to celebrate our nation’s greatest college football team than over some Georgia barbecue provided by my friend and colleague, Rep. Hice. With Alabama’s tough defense and winning ground game, it looks like Rep. Hice may never get to taste Alabama’s Dreamland ribs! Roll Tide Roll!” “I applaud my colleague for her confidence in her team, despite facing an all-star team of winners in the Dawgs, led by the incomparable Kirby Smart, SEC Freshman of the Year Jake Fromm, and the dynamic duo of Sony Michel and Nick Chubb,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m looking forward to Representative Sewell’s impending proclamation of ‘How ‘bout them Dawgs!’ and enjoying some Alabama barbecue. Glory, glory to ole Georgia!” Should the Georgia Bulldogs win, Congresswoman Sewell will wear University of Georgia apparel to the steps of the U.S. Capitol and say “How ‘bout them Dawgs!” Afterwards, she will deliver Tuscaloosa’s own Dreamland ribs to Rep. Hice’s office. Should the Alabama Crimson Tide secure a victory, Rep. Hice has agreed to wear an Alabama tie and the trademark houndstooth Bear Bryant hat to the U.S. Capitol steps and yell “Roll Tide!” Then, he will deliver Georgia barbeque to Rep. Sewell’s office. ###
01.04.2018	Monroe, GA – In an ongoing effort to provide excellent constituent services, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in January. Mobile Office Hours provide residents, who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office and need assistance with federal benefits, the opportunity to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff. Directly connecting Georgia families with the help and resources they need is one of Congressman Hice’s top priorities. “I understand the challenge of busy lives and hectic schedules and that not everyone has the opportunity to meet during normal weekday hours or in our regular offices,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why we'll be bringing our office to you. If you need assistance with a federal agency, I encourage you to stop by the American Legion Post 163 in Statham between 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Tuesday, January 9th or the Washington-Wilkes Chamber of Commerce office between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday, January 16th.” A constituent services representative will be at each of the following locations: Barrow County, GA Tuesday, January 9th 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. American Legion Post 163 1633 Atlanta Highway Statham, GA 30666 Wilkes County, GA (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Tuesday, January 16th 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Washington-Wilkes Chamber of Commerce 22 West Square Washington, GA 30673 In 2017, Congressman Hice’s constituent services team helped return $13.6 million in grants, casework, and scholarships to 10th District residents. ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after the passage of the conference report to accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “Today, we’re crossing the finish line and establishing a competitive and fair tax system so that future generations will thrive,” said Congressman Hice. “For Americans, this significant tax rewrite will create economic opportunity and keep more money in the pockets of hardworking families and individuals. It will also encourage American businesses to keep their jobs and revenue here, and our job creators will once again be competitive internationally.” “Rather than being a safe haven for special interests and tax manipulators, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be simple and fair, help create jobs and increase paychecks, and support working families, while restoring certainty to our tax code and our economy,” Hice continued. “I applaud President Trump, Speaker Ryan, Ways and Means Chairman Brady, and all of my colleagues for harnessing this historic opportunity to reform our outdated tax code and deliver on a decades-long promise to the American people.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: · Nearly doubles the standard deduction from $6,500 and $13,000 to $12,000 and $24,000 for individuals and married couples respectively; · Lowers individual taxes to Zero, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37%; · Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples; · Repeals Obamacare’s individual mandate; · Preserves the child adoption credit; · Preserves the mortgage interest deduction; · Preserves the graduate student tax credit; and · Sets the corporate tax rate at 21%, down from 35%. The full text of the billcan be found here.A summary of the measure can be found here. ##
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C – On Tuesday, December 19th at approximately 6:00 p.m., Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) will host a live telephone town hall with constituents from across the 10th District of Georgia. This is will be the seventh and final telephone town hall meeting of 2017 and the 13th Hice has held since taking office in 2015. During the event, residents will hear a brief legislative update from Representative Hice and will have the opportunity to ask questions regarding current events and issues of general concern. Constituents can submit questions prior to the call here. “I’m excited to once again connect with my constituents and talk about the important issues facing our country,” said Congressman Hice. “Telephone Town Halls are interactive, completely free to participate in and fully accessible by allowing thousands of individuals to share their views and get answers without having to leave their homes. This proven format is all about providing the most convenient service to every 10th District resident who wishes to engage in a constructive community discussion, and I look forward to speaking with many of you on Tuesday evening.” Who:Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What:DecemberTelephone Town Hall When:Tuesday, December 19 from 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. The forum is open to the public. Residents can sign up to participate by clicking here or calling Representative Hice’s Washington D.C. office at202-225-4101. Constituents can also join the conference by calling (855) 756-7520 and using the passcode Ext. 38210# at any point during the event. ##
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice today applauded the President’s signing of the Conference Report of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 into law. The NDAA authorizes funding for the U.S. Department of Defense, establishes our national security priorities for the next fiscal year, and provides crucial resources for servicemembers and their families. “After too many years of inadequate funding, outdated equipment, and readiness shortfalls, this NDAA supports increasing defense spending and prioritizes the safety and security of the American people,” said Congressman Hice. “Our top priority is and has always been to keep America safe. The policies within the FY’18 NDAA achieve the goal of countering threats from rogue nations like North Korea, support cyber operations at the U.S. Army’s Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon in Augusta, and provide our troops with a well-earned 2.4% pay raise. I’m very proud of the work on this legislation by Chairman Thornberry and members of the House Armed Services Committee, and I applaud President Trump's leadership in strengthening our national security as we work to modernize the Department of Defense.” Hice spoke in opposition to an amendment offered by Representative Jared Polis (D-CO), which would mandate a one percent reduction in defense spending, except for personnel and health accounts. The full speech can be found here Hice also delivered remarks in favor of amendments offered by Representatives Ron DeSantis (R-FL) and Robert Pittenger (R-NC), which would prohibit the U.S. Department of Defense from contracting with telecommunication companies found to be complicit with North Korean cyberattacks or any Chinese company found to be providing support for the North Korean regime. Additionally, Hice praised an amendment offered by Representative Mike Bishop (R-MI), which calls upon President Trump to encourage our NATO allies to fulfill their commitments and recognize those allies that currently meet them. Specifically, the bill: Authorizes $696.1 billion in base level funding; Provides a 2.4% pay raise to our men and women in uniform; Sets $203.5 million for military construction projects in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, Fort Gordon in Augusta, Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, and Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany; Funds a recapitalization of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and the acquisition of 87 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters and 20 C-130Js, both of which are assembled in Marietta, Georgia at a facility adjacent to Dobbins Air Reserve Base; Allocates $8 billion to cyber operations, including the U.S. Army's Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon in Augusta, Georgia; Increases missile defense funding by $2.5 billion to help ensure we can protect the homeland from threats posed by advanced, long-range missiles; Maintains restrictions against transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the United States; and Approves requests from the Army, Navy, and Air Force for additional personnel. For a comprehensive summary of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY’18, click here. ###
12.01.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in December. Mobile Office Hours provide residents who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office because of time or location restrictions the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “One of the most rewarding parts of my job is helping 10th District residents,” said Congressman Hice. “Too often, my team and I hear from people who are struggling with the rules and regulations of federal agencies and discouraged by its agonizingly slow process. If this describes you, and you’re needing help with a federal agency – such as Social Security, Medicare, the IRS, or the VA – I hope you will take advantage of one of my upcoming Mobile Office Hours. Although I can’t guarantee the success of your claim, I promise to be your advocate and do everything I can to get answers to your questions.” A constituent services representative from Congressman Hice’s office will be at each of the following locations. Congressman Hice will be working in Washington, D.C. and unable to be in attendance. Morgan County Monday, December 11 9:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Morgan County Board of Commissioners Commission Meeting Room 150 E. Washington Street Madison, GA 30650 Lincoln County (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Monday, December 11 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Lincoln County Courthouse Conference Room 210 Humphrey Street Lincolnton, GA 30817 Greene County Tuesday, December 12 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Greene County Chamber of Commerce 111 North Main Street Greensboro, GA 30642 In 2017, Congressman Hice’s constituent services team helped returned more than $12 million in grants, scholarships, and benefits to Georgians in the 10th Congressional District. ###
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), along with Reps. Ken Buck (CO-04), Dave Brat (VA-07), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Tom Garrett (VA-05), Mike Johnson (LA-04), Steve Pearce (NM-02), and Scott Taylor (VA-02), introduced H.R. 4495, the Settlement Tax Deductions are Over for Predators Act (STOP Act), legislation to prohibit the deductibility of legal settlements related to sexual assault and sexual harassment as business expenses. “Boundaries matter,” said Congressman Hice. “There is no room for sexual assault, harassment, or abuse – anywhere. I steadfastly believe anyone engaging in such behavior has no business getting a tax break to cover up appalling mistreatment. To that end, I am dedicated to making the workplace a safe and fair environment for all and I’m proud to stand with victims as we work to bring our tax system up to code.” “When we allow companies to deduct sexual assault and sexual harassment related settlements, we’re asking the American taxpayer to subsidize hush money payments that cover-up sexual misconduct,” Congressman Ken Buck stated. “Our tax code should make it harder, not easier, for sexual misconduct to occur in the workplace,” said Congressman Scott Taylor. “Currently, the tax code allows companies to deduct sexual assault and harassment settlements. As with lawmakers using our tax dollars for settlements, this is outrageous. These should have never been burdens the tax payer bears.” “There is absolutely no place for sexual harassment in the workplace or anywhere. Using taxpayer dollars to hide sexual harassment claims does nothing but protect the wrongdoer. It is shameful, and it must be stopped. I will continue to seek solutions that empower those who have fallen victim to sexual harassment and promote initiatives that combat this behavior,” stated Congressman Mike Johnson. “Whether it’s Hollywood, Congress or a corporate boardroom, there is no place for sexual abuse or harassment in the workplace. Just as I’m committed to protecting taxpayer dollars from being misused in Washington to cover up sexual misconduct allegations, I’m also committed to preventing private sector businesses from using tax breaks to sweep these heinous acts under the rug. This Congress must stand with the victims of this harassment and take swift action to root out those who would sexually harass any other person, regardless of position or title,” said Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick. “This bill is long overdue. American taxpayers should not be footing the bill for settlements related to sexual assault and sexual harassment. I’m proud to work with my colleagues today to ensure no one, regardless of their wealth or power is able to write off the crimes they commit,” stated Rep. Steve Pearce. Currently, companies can deduct as ordinary and necessary business expenses any legal settlements, fines, fees, and expenses related to sexual assault and sexual harassment cases. In allowing businesses to write off these expenses, the American taxpayer is effectively subsidizing the cost of resolving legal issues related to sexual misconduct. The STOP Act would prohibit the deduction of these expenses in cases where the allegations are public or in cases involving a non-disclosure agreement. S.1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which is being considered by the U.S. Senate today, includes similar language. The legislation offered by Buck and the original co-sponsors shows support in the House of Representatives for the inclusion of this language in a final tax bill package. The full bill text can be found here. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), vice-chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, yesterday introduced H.R. 4467, the Strengthening Aviation Security Act, which requires the Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS) to incorporate risk-based strategies when determining its personnel deployment for domestic and international flight coverage. “Since 9/11, there have been a series of attempts to infiltrate the aviation sector, and it’s clear that these threats have not diminished,” said Congressman Hice. “Terrorists target aircraft to instill fear and undermine our way of life. To keep the traveling public safer and make it harder for our adversaries to succeed, I introduced the Strengthening Aviation Security Act – a commonsense approach toward mitigating potential risks and raising the global baseline for flight security.” “With threats coming at us left and right, our focus should be on implementing effective, evidence-based means of deterring, detecting, and disrupting plots hatched by our enemies,” Hice continued. “This bill will require FAMS to take prudent actions by integrating risk-based methodologies to conduct aviation threat assessments, thereby devoting its resources to the highest-risk flights. As perils continue to emerge, public safety must not be a partisan issue, and I’m proud that this measure develops a protocol to elevate our foreign and domestic aircraft security standards.” Background: FAMS is a U.S. law enforcement agency within the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that deploys federally-trained air marshal agents on U.S. aircraft worldwide. In 2016, the Government Accountability Office published a report that found that TSA and FAMS fail to adequately factor in risk when determining its deployment strategies. Under the current system, FAMS considers its travel budget and number of personnel as factors to determine how to allocate its resources for international and domestic flights, but does not account for risk in the decision process. For domestic missions, allocation decisions are made based on the professional judgement of subject matter experts, not on risk-assessments. Further, this report found that FAMS does not document the reasons for its international deployment decisions. Without this vital information, there is no verifiable method to determine whether the decisions are intelligence-driven, risk-based, or even in compliance with TSA or DHS directives. On November 27, 2017, the Air Marshal Association expressed its support of the legislation. The Strengthening Aviation Security Act would: · Require FAMS to use risk management, travel budget, and number of air marshal personnel when distributing resources between domestic and international flight coverage; · Conduct a threat assessment to support domestic deployment decisions; and · Provide Congress with the documented methodology used by FAMS to conduct risk assessments. The full bill text can be found here. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (GA-10) today applauded the passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the first overhaul of the United States Tax Code in three decades. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is a critical step toward creating jobs, growing the economy, raising wages by reducing rates, removing special interest carve-outs, and making our broken tax code simpler and fairer. “After many months of hard work and discussion, today marks another important milestone in the process of reforming our tax code for the first time in over 30 years,” said Congressman Hice. “Hardworking Americans are tired of struggling under a weak economy. They are ready for relief and the House is ready to deliver that relief. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is a step forward for American workers and American families and will usher in a new era of prosperity in America. The measure that passed today lowers tax rates, simplifies the code, doubles the standard deduction, and increases the child tax credit, all of which will put more money into the pockets of Americans and give them more flexibility when it comes to spending their hard-earned dollars.” “By lowering taxes on small businesses and other job creators, our plan also makes the reforms necessary to boost our economy, while giving Americans access to the kinds of jobs, wages, and opportunities that will set them up for a secure and successful future,” Hice continued. “I commend House Way and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and Speaker Paul Ryan for their leadership throughout this process. While there are still steps left before any tax laws are changed, I’m optimistic and look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate and the Trump Administration to ensure that a pro-growth, pro-family, and pro-worker tax reform package is signed into law.” H.R. 1 incorporates language from H.R. 781, the Free Speech Fairness Act, sponsored by Representative Hice and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01). H.R. 781 will restore free speech and religious liberty to churches and other nonprofits by allowing their leaders to speak openly about the important moral, social, and political issues of the day without fear of losing their tax-exempt status. Hice also played an instrumental role in including the Adoption Tax Credit provision into the tax reform package. H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: · Lowers individual tax rates to zero, 12 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent and maintains the 39.6 percent for the wealthiest Americans; · Doubles the standard deduction so more income will be protected from taxation – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples; · Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children, and creates a new $300 Family Tax Credit for each filer and non-child dependent; · Continues to allow the deduction of charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization; · Provide immediate relief from the Estate Tax (better known as the “Death Tax”) by doubling the exemption and then repealing it entirely after six years; · Ensures the continued construction of two new nuclear reactors at Plant Vogtle near Augusta by eliminating a 2020 sunset date for nuclear production tax credits; · Reduces the corporate rate from 35 percent to 20 percent; · Creates a new special rate for pass-through business income at 25 percent, down from the roughly 40 percent many small businesses pay today; · Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers; and · Protects the ability of small businesses to write off the interest on loans that help these Main Street entrepreneurs start or expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks. The full bill text can be found here. To review the policy highlights of the bill, click here. ###
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), vice-chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, today applauded the House passage of H.R. 3739, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act, legislation he introduced to limit the pensions of former presidents, update the pensions of surviving spouses, and reduce the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures by amending the Former Presidents Act of 1958. “The lifestyle available to former presidents in this day and age is filled with high-paying opportunities, such as top-dollar speaking engagements, book deals, and board memberships,” said Congressman Hice. “Despite the millions of dollars offered by these lucrative deals, American taxpayers continue to foot the bill for yearly pensions, staff salaries, and office space. Given that our federal deficit is more than $20 trillion, it is imperative that our past presidents lead by example in cutting costs and prioritizing accountability as we strive toward a balanced budget. The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act does just that, and I am proud that it has passed the House today. I’m hopeful that the measure will be considered by the full Senate and eventually signed into law.” The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act was introduced on September 12, 2017 by Hice, which streamlines the wide range of benefits provided to former presidents by taking into account the modern-day financial realities faced after leaving office. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA). The measure passed the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on September 13, 2017 with unanimous, bipartisan support. The companion bill passed the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on October 4, 2017. H.R. 3739 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote on November 13, 2017. Representative Hice’s remarks on the House Floor as he managed the bill can be found here. The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2017 would: • Set the pension for former presidents at $200,000 per year; • Limit the cost to the taxpayer for expenses such as office space and leases, furniture and supplies as well as staff salaries to a lump monetary sum of $500,000 per year; • Reduce the monetary allowance dollar-for-dollar if a former president makes in excess of $400,000 in earned income; • Gradually phase out the monetary allowance so that it decreases to $350,000 in five years after leaving office and then to $250,000 in 10 years, where it remains until 30 days after the death of a former president; and • Maintain the funding for the security and protection of a former president or a family member. The full bill text can be found here. Background: Under the Former Presidents Act of 1958, former presidents currently receive a pension of $205,700 annually as well as taxpayer money for staff salaries, office space, communications, travel, and other expenses. These additional benefits totaled $2.43 million in Fiscal Year 2016 and $2.84 million in Fiscal Year 2017. In the 114th Congress, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2015 passed both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate but was vetoed by President Obama. While the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2017 makes several modifications to the previous bill, it continues to advance the same principles of accountability and modernization. ###
11.06.2017	Thomson, GA – On Friday, November 17, 2017, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at the McDuffie County Farm Bureau. Residents from McDuffie County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the farm bureau office between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. to enjoy candid conversation over fresh coffee and warm biscuits with Congressman Hice. Those who would like to attend may R.S.V.P. by emailing Jessica.Hayes@mail.house.gov. Afterwards, Congressman Hice will participate in back-to-back dedication ceremonies for the public display of the Foundations of American Law & Government, which will be prominently featured at the courthouses in McDuffie and Warren counties. The Foundations of American Law and Government display contains documents that played a significant role in the foundation of our system of law and government, including the Ten Commandments, Mayflower Compact, and Declaration of Independence. Hice will meet with local official and residents to discuss its significance at the McDuffie County Courthouse at 9:15 a.m. and the Warren County Courthouse at 10:15 a.m. “I look forward to my upcoming visit and the opportunity to meet with the good folks of McDuffie and Warren Counties,” said Congressman Hice. “My constituent coffee is a great chance for anyone who’d like to come out to ask their questions, share their ideas, and speak directly with me about their values. Then, I invite everyone to join me at the courthouses in McDuffie and Warren counties for the unveiling of the historical document displays, a collection designed to educate the public about the history and background of American law.” Friday, November 17, 2017 8:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. McDuffie County “Coffee with Your Congressman” McDuffie County Farm Bureau 619 Augusta Highway Thomson, GA 30824 9:15 a.m. – 9:45 a.m. Dedication of Historical Document Display Thomson-McDuffie County Government Center 210 Railroad Street Thomson, GA 30824 10:15 a.m. – 10:45 a.m. Dedication of Historical Document Display Warren County Courthouse 521 Main Street Warrenton, GA 30828 ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The American Conservative Union Foundation yesterday recognized Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) with its annual “Award for Conservative Excellence,” given in recognition of his commitment to America’s foundational principles and the U.S. Constitution. “I came to Congress to stand up for the advancement of conservative principles, and I’m proud that my voting record reflects that commitment," said Congressman Hice. "I’m honored to be recognized by the American Conservative Union Foundation and will continue to champion pro-growth, limited government policies that help ensure we leave this country and Georgia’s 10th District better than we found it for our kids and grandkids.” “Rep. Jody Hice earns an A-plus grade for his consistently conservative voting record during a time when our country is facing so many critical issues,” said ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp. “It is refreshing to have a Member of Congress who puts the Constitution first, especially when it comes to our First Amendment religious freedoms.” ACU Chairman Matt Schlapp honoring Congressman Hice with the 2016 Award for Conservative Excellence Background: Founded in 1973, the American Conservative Union Foundation (ACU) has served as a leading organization to advance conservative principles of liberty, personal responsibility, traditional values, and a strong national defense. The ACU’s prestigious award is given annually to Members of Congress based on their adherence to these values. Hice received a 96% rating with ACU in 2016 and holds a lifetime record of 98%. Click HERE to read the full 2016 ACU ratings for the 114th Congress. ###
10.30.2017	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host a “Veterans Appreciation Coffee” on Friday, November 10th. Congressman Hice invites 10th District veterans to stop by his Monroe district office between 3:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. for coffee and pastries. Congressman Hice will be there to thank veterans for their service and to discuss important issues facing our military and veterans. “It’s important that we recognize the generations of men and women who wore the uniform in defense of our country and liberties,” said Congressman Hice. “Veterans Day is just one opportunity to do so, and I hope that all Americans will take time this season to demonstrate respect and express their gratitude to our nation’s valiant warriors.” What: Veterans Appreciation Coffee Who: Congressman Hice & 10th District Veterans When: Friday, November 10, 2017 from 3:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. Where: Monroe District Office 100 Court Street Monroe, GA 30655 (770) 207-1776 ###
10.30.2017	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), U.S. Senator David Perdue, and Jefferson County are working with community partners to host Helping Our Heroes, a veterans’ appreciation event, on Saturday, November 18th at the Jefferson County Leisure Center. Veterans are invited to enjoy a continental breakfast and turkey giveaway, while receiving information on filing claims, veteran housing, benefits, suicide prevention, support for those with disabilities, employment, and more. “Our veterans deserve the utmost respect for protecting our freedom. Although one event is not enough to express our debt of gratitude, I hope that on November 18th our local heroes will know how grateful we are for their service and that we always will hold them in the highest regard,” Congressman Hice stated. “Our country’s responsibility to our veterans does not end when we welcome them home from the front lines,” said Senator Perdue. “These women and men have made great sacrifices to serve our nation. Our team gladly stands by to serve Georgia’s veterans. As the home of U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine bases, Georgia has had a long and proud military tradition. While there is no way to repay our debt to our veterans, I hope this event will begin to show our deep appreciation.” What: Helping Our Heroes When: Saturday, November 18, 2017 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Where: Jefferson County Leisure Center 209 E 7th Street Louisville, GA 30434 The following organizations will participate in the event to support our local veterans: American Legion Department of Georgia, Augusta Warrior Project, Augusta Vet Center, Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center, Georgia Department of Veterans Service, Jefferson County Vets in Action, Jefferson Hospital, and Tools for Life. For more information, please call at (478) 457-0007 or email Jessica.hayes@mail.house.gov. ###
10.07.2017	Monroe, GA – On Friday, October 20, 2017, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at Fishtales in Greensboro. Residents from Greene County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee. “My upcoming coffee is a great opportunity for me to answer your questions, listen to your ideas, and learn about the issues that matter to you,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to our meeting and the chance to engage in a vibrant discussion about current events.” Friday, October 20, 2017 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. 1001 Village Park Drive, #103 Greensboro, Georgia 30642 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Monroe office at (770) 207-1776. ###
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today issued the following comment after the release of the Unified Framework For Fixing Our Broken Tax Code: “I really like what I’m seeing so far with the tax reform framework,” said Congressman Hice. “This bold, new proposal is just the first step toward creating a system that is both competitive and fair. I’m pleased that it will empower Americans to take home more of their hard-earned paychecks and enable businesses of all sizes to grow and thrive. We're moving in the right direction, and I'm proud to be a part of this long overdue reform effort. As the tax-writing committees continue to flesh out the specific legislation, I look forward to being a partner in the discussion so we can send a final bill to President Trump’s desk as soon as possible.” The full framework can be found here. ###
09.25.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in October. Mobile Office Hours provides residents who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office because of time or location restrictions the chance to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “While I’m working for you in Washington, D.C., I am proud to say that I have a full-time team of dedicated staff who are well-versed in delivering constituent services and interacting with federal agencies,” said Congressman Hice. “If you need help with any federal agency, please stop by the Reese-Hyman American Legion in Warrenton, the Oglethorpe County Board of Commissioners Office, or the Wrightsville-Johnson Chamber of Commerce at the following dates and times, and my staff will gladly assist you. Although we can’t guarantee the outcome, we can promise that we’ll do our very best to cut through the red tape and help to resolve your problem.” Warren County Tuesday, October 3 7:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. Reese-Hyman American Legion Post 96 472 Main Street Warrenton, GA 30828 Oglethorpe County Wednesday, October 11 10:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Oglethorpe County Board of Commissioners Office 105 Union Point Road Lexington, GA 30648 Johnson County Wednesday, October 18 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Wrightsville-Johnson Chamber of Commerce 8679 N. Marcus Street Wrightsville, GA 31096 For more information, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), vice-chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, yesterday introduced H.R. 3739, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act, which limits the pensions of former presidents, updates the pensions of surviving spouses, and reduces the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures by amending the Former Presidents Act of 1958. The bill advanced the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Wednesday, September 13, 2017 with unanimous, bipartisan support. The measure streamlines the wide range of benefits provided to former presidents by taking into account the modern-day financial realities faced after leaving office. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA). Representative Hice’s opening remarks from the Full Committee Business Meeting can be found here. “Because of lucrative opportunities, like book deals and speaking engagements, it is no longer necessary to provide taxpayer-funded subsidies to former presidents in the same way as envisioned in 1958,” said Congressman Hice. “The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act presents a fair way to reduce taxpayer support to those former presidents who simply do not need such assistance, while modernizing outdated measures. The offices of former presidents are noble, important institutions that should be supported in a nominal way. I applaud the work that went into this legislation and look forward to its consideration on the House Floor.” The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2017 would: • Set the pension for former presidents at $200,000 per year; • Limit the cost to the taxpayer for expenses such as office space and leases, furniture and supplies as well as staff salaries to a lump monetary sum of $500,000 per year; • Reduce the monetary allowance dollar-for-dollar if a former president makes in excess of $400,000 in earned income; • Gradually phase out the monetary allowance so that it decreases to $350,000 in six years after the bill’s enactment and then to $250,000 in 10 years, where it remains until 30 days after the death of a former president; and • Maintain the funding for the security and protection of a former president or a family member. The full bill text can be found here. Background: Under the Former Presidents Act of 1958, former presidents currently receive a pension of $205,700 annually as well as taxpayer money for staff salaries, office space, communications, travel, and other expenses. These additional benefits totaled $2.43 million in Fiscal Year 2016 and $2.84 million in Fiscal Year 2017. In the 114th Congress, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2015 passed both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, but was vetoed by President Obama. While the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2017 makes several modifications to the previous bill, it continues to advance the same principles of accountability and modernization. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), vice-chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, today introduced legislation that limits the pensions of former presidents, updates the pensions of surviving spouses, and reduces the allowances provided for post-presidential expenditures by amending the Former Presidents Act of 1958. The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act streamlines the wide range of benefits provided to former presidents by taking into account the modern-day financial realities faced after leaving office. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA). “By identifying outdated measures and prioritizing principles of accountability, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act creates a market-based plan to save taxpayer dollars,” said Congressman Hice. “The lifestyle of the modern post-presidency has dramatically changed in recent years, affording former presidents many lucrative opportunities, including high-dollar speaking engagements, book deals, and board memberships, just to name a few. With Americans looking down the barrel of a $20 trillion debt, we must find ways to reduce wasteful spending, and our former presidents will lead by example in cutting costs under this bill.” The Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2017 would: • Set the pension for former presidents at $200,000 per year; • Limit the cost to the taxpayer for expenses such as office space and leases, furniture and supplies as well as staff salaries to a lump monetary sum of $500,000 per year; • Reduce the monetary allowance dollar-for-dollar if a former president makes in excess of $400,000 in earned income; • Gradually phase out the monetary allowance so that it decreases to $350,000 in six years after the bill’s enactment and then to $250,000 in 10 years, where it remains until 30 days after the death of a former president; and • Maintain the funding for the security and protection of a former president or a family member. The full bill text can be found here. Background: Under the Former Presidents Act of 1958, former presidents currently receive a pension of $205,700 annually as well as taxpayer money for staff salaries, office space, communications, travel, and other expenses. These additional benefits totaled $2.43 million in Fiscal Year 2016 and $2.84 million in Fiscal Year 2017. In the 114th Congress, the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2015 passed both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate with unanimous support, but was vetoed by President Obama. While the Presidential Allowance Modernization Act of 2017 makes several modifications to the previous bill, it continues to advance the same principles of accountability and modernization. The bill will be considered during the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Full Committee Business Meeting on Wednesday, September 13, 2017 at 10 a.m. ###
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today released the following video in commemoration of the 16th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: Click here to view the video. Remarks: Today is 9/11, a day that none of us as Americans will ever forget. I’m sure you remember where you were on that day. A day in which terrorists tried to destroy our way of life here in America and set fear into our hearts of Americans all across our country. We came through that time. We came through it greater and stronger than before and with a greater resolve to build our military, to defend our country, and to stand against those whose commitment is to destroy our way of life. I want to first of all say to those of you who lost loved ones, as well as to those of you who had individuals or who personally were involved in the rescue or cleanup of that event and for so many who were involved in prayer and in multiple different ways of trying to help our country through those difficult times, thank you. Our resolve is twofold. Number one, we will never forget that day or those who came against us. Two, we will never give up on defending our country and the liberties that set this Nation apart from every country in the world. So, God bless you on this day of remembrance, September 11th. ###
09.07.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in coordination with the economic development offices of Newton, Morgan, Jasper, and Walton counties, will host a regional job fair on Thursday, September 21, 2017 from 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. at Georgia Piedmont Technical College. The event is designed to put job seekers in front of local employers who are hiring in the bio/life sciences, advanced/process manufacturing, film and tourism, and service industries. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to connect Georgians with good-paying jobs,” said Congressman Hice. “While I work to advance policies in Washington that will expand opportunity, I’m excited to engage with community partners to host an event that will introduce local talent to Georgia's job creators. In doing so, we will reaffirm that our state truly is one of the best places in which to work.” The following major employers have confirmed their attendance: Anthony International Beaver Manufacturing Company Bulldog Steel Fabrication City of Covington Human Resources Clairon Metals Corporation Contract Packaging Covington Fire Department Covington Police Department Covington-Newton 911 Cutting Edge Laser Manufacturing, Inc. Cycle World of Conyers C.R. Bard - Global Distribution Center Dart Container Corporation Electrical Contractor, Inc. Elite Auto Collision Enterprise Rent-A-Car Express Employment Professionals Gent's Grooming Lounge Georgia Department of Juvenile Justice Georgia Film and TV Production Initiative (GFTPI) Heavy Equipment College of Georgia Herc Rentals Hire Dynamics Independent Electrical Contractors Infinity Network Solutions JR Hobb Company Atlanta LLC Leggett & Platt Michelin Tread Newton County Board of Commissioners HR Newton County Fire Service Newton County Sheriff’s Office MAU Workforce Solutions Primerica, Inc. Shire SRG Global Steelco Buildings Inc. Three Ring Studios US Corrogated Verescence Wagner WestRock The job fair will be located on the main campus of Georgia Piedmont Technical College, 8100 Bobby Williams Parkway, Covington, GA 30014. Applicants should dress for success and have resumes ready to distribute. There is no fee to attend, and advance registration is not required. For the latest information, visit www.selectnewton.com and follow Newton County Office of Economic Development and Congressman Hice on social media. ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today commented on the Department of Justice’s announcement regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, commonly known as DACA: “In creating the DACA program, President Obama self-admittedly exceeded his executive authority. President Trump is correct to restore the Constitutional prerogative of Congress to write our laws and bring clarity to our Nation’s immigration policy. “I agree with the President that phasing down this program creates a window of opportunity for Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform to prevent future uncertainty regarding the status of those in our country, most especially the children. As a Nation built on the rule of law, such reform must first and foremost serve our citizens and provide for their security, and those laws must then be enforced. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to find long-term, commonsense solutions to the many immigration issues facing our country.” ###
08.29.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in September. Mobile Office Hours provides residents who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office because of time or location restrictions the opportunity to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “Whether I’m in Washington, D.C. or working hard in the district, I’m fortunate to have a dedicated team of constituent service representatives who stand willing and ready to help," said Congressman Hice. “If you have questions regarding Social Security benefits, Medicare, immigration, veterans’ benefits, the IRS, and other federal programs, I hope you will take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours. This month, my staff will set up shop at the Jasper County Farm Bureau and then pay a special visit to the members of the Loganville American Legion.” Jasper County, GA Wednesday, September 13 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Jasper County Farm Bureau 671 W. Washington Street Monticello, GA 31064 In addition to the Jasper County meeting, Congressman Hice will send a staff member to the Loganville American Legion Post 233 to make a private presentation to its local participants. To request an informational session for an organization or group, please call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
08.22.2017	Monroe, GA – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today issued the following statement regarding President Trump's strategy for Afghanistan: “The President was very deliberate in reaching his decision on Afghanistan and considered a host of different options for moving forward,” said Congressman Hice. “While his decision was not reached easily, it must be considered in the context of the previous policies which have failed. Most notably, when President Obama set an arbitrary timeline for withdrawing from Iraq, the coalitions we worked so hard to craft fell apart, setting the stage for ISIS and other terrorist organizations to fill the void. Simply put, we cannot repeat this legacy in Afghanistan.” “I am pleased that President Trump articulated a strategy rooted in taking the fight directly to the terrorists, lifting engagement restrictions which have for so long tied the hands of our troops in theater, and applying pressure to our partners in Afghanistan and Pakistan to more aggressively combat terrorists operating within their borders,” Hice continued. “It is my hope that these policies will more effectively create the conditions necessary to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a staging ground for those who wish harm upon us. Now it is incumbent upon Congress to provide our brave men and women in uniform with the resources required to achieve that success.” ###
08.22.2017	Monroe, GA – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today commented on President Trump's upcoming visit to the U.S.-Mexican border: “Securing our borders is vital to maintaining the safety of our homeland,” said Congressman Hice. "I’m grateful that President Trump has brought this issue into the forefront and given it the attention it deserves. I remain firmly committed to supporting the President's security initiatives on the southern border that will help improve our national security and ensure public safety." ###
08.21.2017	Thomson, GA – On Thursday, August 31, 2017, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at the Taliaferro County Farm Bureau. Residents from Taliaferro County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee. “Thursday’s coffee is a great opportunity for me to answer your questions, listen to your ideas, and learn about the issues that matter to you,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to our meeting and the chance to engage in a vibrant discussion about current events.” Thursday, August 31, 2017 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 8:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. Taliaferro County Farm Bureau 109 Alexander St. Crawfordville, GA 30631 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Monroe office at (770) 207-1776. ###
08.17.2017	L to R: Moore Hallmark, Executive Director of the Southeastern Region Office of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Congressman Jody Hice, Dr. Dan Kaufman, President/CEO of the Gwinnett Chamber of Commerce, & Chris Clark, President/CEO of Georgia Chamber of Commerce Monroe, GA – During a gathering at the “Gwinnett Chamber ON TOPIC” on Wednesday, August 16th, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce honored Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-growth policies in 2016. “Businesses of all shapes and sizes need sound, commonsense policy in place in order to get off the ground, grow, and succeed,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes those members of Congress who have done what’s right for our friends, family, and neighbors running businesses across the country. We applaud Congressman Jody Hice for his commitment to free enterprise and economic growth.” “Reducing regulatory red tape and focusing on pro-business principles will help create jobs and grow our economy,” said Congressman Hice. “Now more than ever, we need to implement policies that create space for businesses to flourish and hire more workers. I am humbled to receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award and will continue fighting every day to fuel economic opportunity for Georgia’s hardworking families and businesses.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s annual scorecard, How They Voted. According to this year’s scorecard, Congressman Hice received a 100% rating. ###
08.15.2017	Thomson, GA – On Thursday, August 24, 2017, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at the Hancock County Farm Bureau. Residents from Hancock County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the event between 4:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee with Congressman Hice. “Thursday’s coffee is a great opportunity for me to answer your questions, listen to your ideas, and learn about the issues that matter to you,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to our meeting and the chance to engage in a vibrant discussion about current events.” Thursday, August 24, 2017 “Coffee with Your Congressman” 4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. Hancock County Farm Bureau 10024 GA-15 Sparta, GA 31087 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Milledgeville office at (478) 457-0007. ###
08.07.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff this August. Mobile Office Hours provides residents who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office because of time or location restrictions the opportunity to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “Whether I’m in Washington, D.C. or working hard in the district, I’m fortunate to have a dedicated team of constituent service representatives who stand willing and ready to help," said Congressman Hice. “If you have questions regarding Social Security benefits, Medicare, immigration, veterans’ benefits, the IRS, and other federal programs, I hope you will take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours. This month, my staff will be at the Warren County Senior Citizen Center and the Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce, and they look forward to meeting with you.” A constituent service representative will be at each of the following locations: Warren County, GA Monday, August 14, 2017 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Warren County Senior Citizen Center 48 Warren Street Warrenton, GA 30828 Putnam County, GA Monday, August 14, 2017 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce, Board Room 305 N Madison Avenue Eatonton, GA 31024 For more information, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
07.18.2017	Milledgeville, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host his annual Service Academy Day on Saturday, August 19th on the campus of Georgia Military College. The event is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for the nation’s five military service academies. Students in grades eight through twelve are invited to attend. The event will take place from 1:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. in the Goldstein Center for the Performing Arts Auditorium, where representatives from the United States Air Force, Naval, Military, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marine Academies will discuss their requirements for admittance. “The United States Service Academies award some of the largest and most prestigious scholarships in the country,” said Congressman Hice. “Students who earn an offer of appointment receive a top-tier education, room and board, pay, and exclusive benefits and training. What’s more, these young men and women become commissioned officers immediately upon graduation. I can think of no higher honor for Georgia’s 10th District students, and each year, I am proud to congratulate the elite group of leaders who attend a United States Service Academy.” All students admitted to our nation’s military service academies must first receive a nomination from at least one member of their state's Congressional Delegation, the Vice President, or the President of the United States. Students who are seeking Congressman Hice’s nomination should submit a completed application to his Monroe District Office by October 13, 2017. To access the application and learn more about the nomination process, visit Congressman Hice’s website at http://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/serviceacademynominations.htm or contact Carolyn Dallas at (478) 457-0007 or Carolyn.Dallas@mail.house.gov. What: GA-10 Service Academy Day Who: America’s Service Academies & Students in Grades Eight through Twelve When: Saturday, August 19, 2017 from 1:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Where: Georgia Military College Goldstein Center for the Performing Arts Auditorium 325 S. Elbert Street Milledgeville, GA 31061 ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, by a vote of 344 – 81. The NDAA authorizes funding for the U.S. Department of Defense, establishes our national security priorities for the next fiscal year, and provides crucial resources for service members and their families. “Just think about the threats that America faces, most especially from ISIS and the pursuit of nuclear technology by Iran and North Korea,” said Congressman Hice. “While no one can predict the future with clarity, our national security is the fundamental responsibility of the federal government. It’s our duty to build a 21st century military that’s capable of confronting these evolving threats.” “We need to bolster our military capabilities – not further degrade them,” Hice continued. “This year’s NDAA gains ground in our efforts to close the readiness gap by modernizing and fully funding our Armed Forces, while developing an effective framework to counter terrorism. Simply put, an innovative, flexible, and agile military force is vital to keeping America safe, our allies assured, and our enemies deterred. With the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act, we’ve taken a step in the right direction.” Hice spoke in opposition to an amendment offered by Representative Jared Polis (D-CO), which would mandate a one percent reduction in defense spending, except for personnel and health accounts. The full speech can be found here Hice also delivered remarks in favor of amendments offered by Representatives Ron DeSantis (R-FL) and Robert Pittenger (R-NC), which would prohibit the U.S. Department of Defense from contracting with telecommunication companies found to be complicit with North Korean cyberattacks or any Chinese company found to be providing support for the North Korean regime. Additionally, Hice praised an amendment offered by Representative Mike Bishop (R-MI), which calls upon President Trump to encourage our NATO allies to fulfill their commitments and recognize those allies that currently meet them. Specifically, the bill: · Boosts defense spending by 10 percent from FY’17 levels to $696.1 billion; · Properly funds a 2.4% pay raise our troops; · Provides $203.5 million for military construction projects in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, Fort Gordon in Augusta, Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins, and Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany; · Authorizes a recapitalization of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and the acquisition of 87 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters and 20 C-130Js, both of which are assembled in Marietta, Georgia at a facility adjacent to Dobbins Air Reserve Base; · Fully funds cyber operations at $8 billion, including the U.S. Army's Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon; · Increases missile defense funding by $2.5 billion to help ensure we can protect the homeland from threats posed by advanced, long-range missiles; · Maintains restrictions against transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to the United States; and · Approves requests from the Army, Navy, and Air Force for additional personnel. For a comprehensive summary of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY’18, click here. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today welcomed Gwinnett County resident Emma Babushkin, a sophomore at Mill Creek High School and the overall winner of Georgia’s 10th Congressional District’s Congressional Art Competition, to our Nation's capital as she was recognized alongside competition winners from across the United States. Beside other first place finishers, Emma’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Her piece, titled “Theodore,” was made from graphite, which highlighted her drawing’s composition, detail to the subject’s anatomy, and overall depth. “With so many talented and creative students in our high schools across Georgia’s 10th Congressional District, I am always in awe of the incredible artwork they create,” said Congressman Hice. “This year’s winning work of art is no different, and I want to congratulate Emma on her achievements as a gifted young artist. Hundreds of thousands of people visit Washington, D.C. each year, and I am proud to have her drawing represent our part of Georgia as it hangs in the U.S. Capitol.” First Place winner Emma Babushkin with Congressman Hice next to her artwork, “Theodore,” in the U.S. Capitol ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today voted to advance two measures designed to improve the enforcement of America’s immigration laws and enhance public safety. H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, strengthens current law to combat reckless sanctuary cities that shield unlawful, criminal aliens from federal immigration enforcement. H.R. 3003 will also empower the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to stem the flow of taxpayer dollars into cities and municipalities that refuse to cooperate with federal immigration protocol. H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law, establishes stricter penalties for any illegal alien who has been denied entry or attempts to re-enter the United States after deportation. This bill is named in memory of Kathryn Steinle, the San Francisco woman who was murdered in 2015 by an illegal immigrant with seven felony convictions who was deported five times, but unlawfully re-entered the country each time. “Rampant illegal immigration is one of the many problems that I came to Washington to address,” said Congressman Hice. “Sanctuary cities provide asylum for repeat-offender criminal illegal aliens who dangerously roam our communities without fear of deportation. These policies obstruct federal law, needlessly endanger public safety, and have led to the untimely deaths of many innocent Americans.” “Today, the House took major strides toward enforcing the law of the land and protecting American communities with the passage of the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law,” Hice continued. “As we have seen, there are real public safety risks and tragic consequences that arise when misguided cities refuse to enforce federal law. America is built upon the hard work of immigrants who came before us, and we encourage those who wish to follow in their footsteps to come – but to come legally. Simply put, we have the duty to ensure that those new arrivals are not here to harm our citizens, and I will never waver from my firm commitment to defend our border and enforce the rule of law.” ###
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) recently congratulated Rachael Liu, a 2017 graduate of Archer High School and resident of Dacula, Georgia, who earned the Congressional Award Gold Medal. To receive this prestigious award, students must spend two or more years completing 400 hours of community service and focus an additional 200 hours on personal development and physical fitness. “I was extremely proud to attend this year’s Congressional Award Gold Medal Ceremony and congratulate Rachael Liu on her achievements,” said Congressman Hice. “Rachael earned the highest honor that Congress can bestow upon a young person by completing over 450 volunteer hours at a local food ministry, serving more than 6,000 individuals and raising awareness on the issue of severe hunger. Her dedication and commitment to improving the 10th District, while bettering both her physical fitness and personal development, is to be commended. Ms. Liu is an asset to our community, and I applaud her on this distinguished accomplishment.” Chairman of the Congressional Award Foundation’s Board of Directors Paxton Baker, Rachael Liu, and Congressman Hice This year’s award ceremony recognized 373 young people across 39 states, making it the largest class in the Congressional Award’s 38-year history. Established by the United States Congress in 1979, the Congressional Award recognizes the initiative, service and achievement of young people aged 14 to 23. For more information: http://congressionalaward.org. ###
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) spoke on the House floor this week to honor the lives of Sergeants Curtis Billue and Christopher Monica of the Georgia Department of Corrections, who were killed by two escaped inmates on June 13, 2017 in Putnam County, Georgia. Hice’s speech can be viewed online here. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in honor of two Georgia State Corrections Officers, Sergeants Curtis Billue and Christopher Monica, who were killed in the line of duty June 13th in Putnam County, Georgia. I share with their families the deep sorrow perpetrated by the violence of two rogue inmates, and I pray that God comforts the Billue and Monica families in their time of grief. “Described as hardworking, kind, and devoted, Sergeants Billue and Monica will be remembered for their service and sacrifice, for their loyalty as public servants, and for their love and dedication to their families. “I'm grateful that the two perpetrators of this crime have been brought back into custody, and I am confident that justice will be served. American law enforcement officers make a promise to keep our country and communities safe, and in return, we must restore the tradition of respect and honor that is owed to all members of the law enforcement community who are on the frontlines. “In gratitude to Sergeants Billue and Monica, Governor Nathan Deal ordered the flags of Georgia to fly at half-staff on July 17th and 20th. I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing their lives and service and to say thank you to every brother and sister in uniform who stand on that thin blue line. And I yield back.” ###
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) yesterday introduced H.R. 2945, the Congressional Personal Safety Act, which will allow Members of Congress to carry a firearm anywhere in the United States, except for the U.S. Capitol Building. “Personal protection and being able to defend oneself against an assailant is part of the fabric of our Constitution, which is why I am an ardent believer in the Second Amendment,” said Congressman Hice. “While Members of Congress are all average Americans, it is clear that we also have a bull's eye on our backs. In light of recent events, it’s incredibly important that Congressmen and women maintain the ability to provide for their own safety, regardless of the city or state.” “The Congressional Personal Safety Act will grant elected officials the authority to carry a firearm anywhere in America, except for the Capitol,” Hice continued. “Simply put, the right to bear arms is a right to self-defense, and I’m proud to spearhead this measure.” ###
06.14.2017	In the wake of this morning’s shooting at the Congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, my thoughts and prayers continue to be with my friend and colleague, Congressman Steve Scalise, the courageous Capitol Police officers, the staff members, and all those impacted by this horrific and senseless attack. I am thankful for the bravery shown and the quick action of our law enforcement and first responders, which undoubtedly saved many innocent lives today. Given that two legislative business days have been cancelled to focus on healing rather than politics and to take time to pray for full recovery, tomorrow’s originally scheduled Telephone Town Hall will be postponed until Thursday, June 22nd, 2017. I am honored to represent the 10th District of Georgia, and I am grateful for every opportunity to speak with you on the issues facing our nation. I look forward to speaking with many of you next Thursday evening.
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, June 15, 2017 at approximately 6:00 p.m., Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) will host a telephone town hall meeting with constituents of the 10th District of Georgia. This is the ninth conference call forum Congressman Hice has hosted since 2015 and the third he has hosted this year. During the live telephone town hall, residents will hear a brief legislative update from Representative Hice and will have the opportunity to ask him questions on a wide range of topics. “In order to best represent the 10th District of Georgia, it’s important to me that I hear directly from the people I serve,” said Congressman Hice. “With a district as geographically widespread as the 10th, telephone town halls are a modern and effective way to connect with the maximum amount of residents, where we can discuss the best path forward for our community and talk about the critical challenges facing our nation. I value any opportunity for my constituents to share their thoughts, concerns, and ideas with me, and I look forward to speaking with many of them on Thursday evening.” Who: Congressman Hice and 10th District residents What: Telephone Town Hall When: Thursday, June 15 from 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Call in number: (855) 756-7520 Ext.35706# The forum is open to the public. To RSVP, please click here. ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), who represents the University of Georgia, recently urged the U.S. Department of Energy and the Trump Administration to release critical grant funds awarded to UGA and Pennsylvania State University. The project, “DEEPER: An Integrated Phenotyping Platform for Deeper Rooting,” is part of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy’s (ARPA-E) Rhizosphere Observations Optimizing Terrestrial Sequestration (ROOTS) program, which is aimed at developing cutting-edge technologies to improve productivity, resilience, and sustainability of deep-rooted crops. Following the work of Congressman Hice, his staff, and university officials, funding for the DEEPER project has proceeded to the contracting phase and will soon be released. “The continued success of the University of Georgia in garnering grants is a direct result of the quality and caliber of its students and faculty and their determined efforts to seek funding for projects that improve science and technology,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m pleased that the Department of Energy has reconsidered its position to delay already authorized research funding and will release the grant allocation for the DEEPER project. I look forward to learning of its developments as we build a better energy future. “We are grateful for Congressman Hice’s help and participation in releasing the funding for this vital project,” said Griffin Doyle, Vice President for Government Relations at the University of Georgia. “This grant will benefit UGA and Penn State to design and conduct a low-cost integrated system to identify and screen high-yielding deeper rooted crops.” Researchers at the University of Georgia and Penn State received the $7 million grant from the Department of Energy through a Cooperative Agreement in January, and the funding for the project was initially set to be released on May 1st, 2017. In April, the Trump Administration imposed a freeze on ARPA-E grants and contracts pending further review. ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today applauded the passage of S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, sponsored by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Jon Tester (D-MT), which will allow the VA Secretary to dismiss bad employees, from executives to rank-and-file, while ensuring due process protections for whistleblowers. “The commitment of our nation’s veterans is irrefutable, and our commitment to them must be the same,” said Congressman Hice. “A culture of complacency is no longer acceptable, and we must act boldly in order to restore accountability at the VA. The Department of Veterans Affairs and Whistleblower Protection Act builds on earlier VA reforms by further empowering department leadership to quickly terminate negligent employees, prohibiting bonuses for employees accused of wrongdoing, and instituting critical protections for whistleblowers.” “The problems unearthed at the VA three years ago were horrifying and upsetting,” Hice continued. “We are making good on our promise to fix these problems, and I’m pleased that this vital legislation is headed to the President’s desk for his signature.” Background: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act institutes necessary reforms at the VA by granting the Secretary with the authority to quickly remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct, expanding whistleblower protections, and appointing permanent medical VA directors. The legislation also contains a number of other provisions to hold employees accountable, including: Streamlining the ability of the Secretary to recoup bonuses and awards for bad actors; Authorizing the Secretary to reduce an employee’s pension if they are convicted of a felony that influenced their job performance; Requiring the VA to evaluate supervisors based on the protection of whistleblowers; Incentivizing managers to report poor performance and misconduct among employees by requiring the VA secretary to include this as part of the annual performance plan; and Prohibiting relocation expenses to employees who abuse the system. The U.S. Senate passed S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017, on June 6, 2017. Following today’s passage by a vote of 368 – 55 in the U.S. House of Representatives, the measure now heads to the White House for the President’s signature. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here.
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today praised the passage of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE (Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers, and Entrepreneurs) Act, landmark legislation which includes a number of provisions to end bank bailouts, promote economic growth, and provide much-needed regulatory relief for community banks and credit unions. “Spurred by the housing collapse and financial meltdown in 2008, Dodd-Frank was a misguided approach that created an environment of overreach and overregulation that has hampered our financial sector,” said Congressman Hice. “This has frozen the flow of commerce, breeding uncertainty for American businesses and hindering their ability to grow and create jobs.” “Granting the federal government unprecedented regulatory powers has harmed hardworking families and local financial institutions,” Hice continued. “The CHOICE Act is an important step toward empowering Main Street to achieve financial independence, and I applaud its passage in the House.” Background (Courtesy of the House Financial Services Committee): The Financial CHOICE Act would enact a number of significant financial service reforms: · Mitigate “too big to fail” policies and bank bailouts by repealing most of Title I and all of Title VIII of Dodd-Frank. · Stop the federal government from seizing troubled financial firms through orderly liquidation and return to a time-tested bankruptcy system by repealing Title II of Dodd-Frank. · Fundamentally reform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): Rename it to the “Consumer Law Enforcement Agency”; Restructure the agency as an Executive Branch agency with a single director removable by the president at will and make the agency subject to Congressional and appropriations oversight; and Eliminate the CFPB’s sweeping market-monitoring function and require the agency obtain permission before collecting consumers’ personally identifiable information. · Repeal the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule. · Rein in the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending authority by making it more difficult for the Fed to conduct bailout-style loans to insolvent firms. · Unleash small business creation, innovation and entrepreneurship by eliminating the misguided Volcker rule, which has limited capital formation over the past few years. · Subject all new major rules imposed by financial regulatory agencies to congressional approval under the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. · Strengthen penalties on Wall Street for those who engage in fraud, insider trading, and other corrupt practices. For an executive summary of the Financial CHOICE Act, click here. For a comprehensive summary, click here. ###
06.05.2017	Milledgeville, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host his annual Grants and Small Business Workshop on Wednesday, June 21st at the Tarbutton Business Development Center at Oconee Fall Line Technical College. The workshop is an opportunity for individuals to network with state and federal representatives and receive valuable information for their business or project. “Whether you’re a small business owner or representative for a nonprofit or municipality, this seminar is designed to provide you with tips and tools to help you succeed,” said Congressman Hice. “Join us to learn how to secure economic development funds, apply for federal grants, or grow your small business. There will also be opportunities to interact with representatives from local, state, and federal agencies to learn more about their application process and programs.” What: Grants & Small Business Workshop When: Wednesday, June 21, 2017 from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM (Registration @ 9:45 AM) Where: Ben J. Tarbutton Business Development Center Oconee Fall Line Technical College 1189 Deepstep Road Sandersville, GA 31082 The following agencies will be at the event to provide information: CSRA Regional Commission, Georgia Department of Community Affairs, Georgia Department of Economic Development, Georgia Secretary of State, Georgia Tech Procurement Assistance Center, Grants.gov, Small Business Administration, UGA Small Business Development Center, USDA Rural Development, WorkSource East Central Georgia and more. This event is free and open to the public. For more information, please call (770) 207-1776 or email Keri.Gardner@mail.house.gov. ###
05.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – To commemorate Memorial Day, Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following video to honor our nation’s fallen heroes: Click here to view the speech. Transcript: It’s Memorial Day, and I just wanted to take a brief moment to say a very deep, heartfelt thank you to each of you who have served our country, and especially to those of you who have lost loved ones in the service of our country. Whether it was World War II, Vietnam, Korean War, Iraq, Afghanistan, wherever it may have been, the United States of America is blessed to have the greatest military in the world, men and women of courageous spirit, who give everything they’ve got, even their lives if need be, to defend the liberties that you and I enjoy. So as we celebrate this noble holiday, Memorial Day, it’s a day of solemn reflection, let each of us express our thanks and gratitude to those who have served and especially to the family members of those who have given their lives. To all of you, God bless you. God bless America. And have a great Memorial Day. ###
05.24.2017	View Hice’s remarks in support of H.R. 1293 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today praised the passage of H.R. 1293, legislation requiring the Office of Personnel Management to submit an annual report to Congress relating to the use of “official time,” a practice by which federal employees are legally permitted to conduct union-related activities – during the work day – instead of performing their jobs. Prior to its passage, Hice delivered remarks in support of the legislation sponsored by Representative Dennis Ross (R-FL). Hice’s floor speech can be viewed online here. “The American people have a right to at least have a reasonable expectation that the federal government knows what its employees are doing,” said Congressman Hice. “Unfortunately, we all know that doesn't always happen, particularly when it comes to the practice of official time. It's amazing to me how little information there is as it relates to the reporting aspect as to what is happening under official time.” “H.R. 1293 grants the OPM the ability to get necessary information from federal agencies so that we have a more comprehensive understanding of the official time usage,” Hice continued. “Currently there are no standards for OPM to find that kind of information. This bill does not eliminate nor does it restrict official time usage. It simply shines light on the practice. I believe we can find common ground that the American people deserve to know how their tax dollars are being spent. This is good governance.” In March, Representative Hice introduced H.R. 1364, the Official Time Reform Act, which would prohibit federal employees from grassroots lobbying while on official time. The bill would also prohibit employees who spend more than 80% of their work on official time within a given year from counting that time as creditable service under the Civil Service Retirement System and Federal Employee Retirements System and would prohibit those employees from receiving bonuses. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today released the following statement in response to the appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel by the Department of Justice: “Former FBI Director Robert Mueller is well respected in Congress, as well as across the law enforcement and intelligence communities. Over the past year, we have seen what happens when the FBI gets bogged down in partisan politics and personal relationships receive more focus than the facts. I am hopeful that Director Mueller will rise above these controversies and will oversee this ongoing investigation with impartiality and a steady hand. “Regardless of attempts to politicize the outcome, we must ensure that Director Mueller’s report, in conjunction with the findings of the ongoing investigations by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, provides the country with a clear understanding of Russia’s efforts to impact the election and whether Trump officials were complicit in those efforts. It is worth noting, however, that both acting FBI Director McCabe and the former Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, have refuted that notion.” ###
05.18.2017	L to R: Midshipman Korrey King, Cadet Candidate (CC) Andrew Salies Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that two Henry County High School graduates have earned Fully Qualified Offers of Appointment to U.S. Service Academies. Korrey King and Andrew Salies graduated from Henry County High School in 2016 and went on to attend the Naval Academy Preparatory School (NAPS) and the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (or West Point Prep), respectively. Both young men will enter the Class of 2021 – Korrey as a midshipman at the U.S. Naval Academy in Maryland and Andrew as a cadet at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. “It is my honor to extend congratulations to Korrey and Andrew, two exceptional young men from the 10th Congressional District who have distinguished themselves as leaders,” said Congressman Hice. “Both exemplify the highest attributes of character, scholarship, and patriotism. It was a privilege to nominate them, and it gives me great confidence knowing they will one day be officers in America’s Armed Forces.” Korrey graduated from the NAPS on Friday, May 12th, and Andrew will graduate from West Point Prep on Saturday, May 20th. Both schools prepared them for the academic, physical, and military challenges of their respective service academies. With academy appointments, they will receive a full scholarship – to include room, board, tuition, health care, and a stipend – and upon graduation, they will be commissioned officers in the United States Armed Forces. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the Trump Administration’s implementation of the Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance policy, the House Values Action Team (VAT) leadership, Chair Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), and Co-Chairs Reps. Jody Hice (R-Ga.), Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.), and Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), jointly released the following statement: “It is essential that U.S. foreign assistance is life affirming. The State Department’s implementation of the Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance policy, formerly known as the Mexico City Policy, solidifies that U.S. taxpayer dollars will not be used for abortions or the promotion of abortions overseas.” “This expanded policy reinforces our commitment to the health of mothers and babies, born and unborn, ensuring that American partnership with foreign NGOs upholds human dignity and integrity.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after President Trump signed the Executive Order on Promoting Free Speech and Religious Liberty: “The right to act or speak on one’s religious convictions is a fundamental cornerstone of a free society. The Founders understood this inalienable right, which is enshrined in the First Amendment. However, in recent years, the scale has tilted in favor of restricting religious liberty. Those whose beliefs are contrary to that of the ‘acceptable’ standard are labeled as ‘intolerant.’ “Fortunately, with the actions the President has taken today, the fight to protect the free exercise of religion lives on. As a former pastor, I’m pleased that the executive order includes language that directs the IRS to alleviate the burden of the Johnson Amendment, which prohibits religious leaders from speaking about political matters from the pulpit, as we work to pass legislation that Majority Whip Steve and I introduced – H.R. 781, the Free Speech Fairness Act. Simply put, the government should not restrict the freedom to worship, live, work, or speak in accordance with one’s beliefs.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), passed the U.S. House of Representatives: “Hardworking Americans can no longer bear the high cost of health care in our country, and the time for relief is now. The AHCA promotes policies that will lower health care premiums, stabilize the insurance markets, improve the quality of care, and increase consumer choice, while continuing to provide affordable coverage for those with pre-existing conditions. “The AHCA is not perfect, but repairing the damage of Obamacare, lowering costs, and protecting people with pre-existing conditions is critical to the future of this country, and this legislation is a strong first step. The latest amendment, which dedicates an additional $8 billion to reduce costs for patients with pre-existing conditions, strengthens that commitment. Today’s passage of the AHCA is only the beginning of a long legislative process to fully repeal Obamacare and its harmful policies, which have proven to be disastrous for our health care system. I am proud to be at the forefront of this fight and follow through on the promises we've made to the American people.” ###
05.01.2017	Left to right: Don MacPherson, owner of the Gilded Lily, Emma Babushkin, & Congressman Jody Hice Monroe, GA – On Saturday, April 29th, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) unveiled the winning entry for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. During a public ceremony at the Monroe Art Guild, Congressman Hice revealed that Emma Babushkin, a sophomore at Mill Creek High School, won 1st Place with her graphite sketch, entitled “Theodore.” Emma received two airline tickets and an invitation to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C., where her artwork will hang for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Hice also announced the following additional awards: · 2nd Place went to Savannah Lappert from Dacula High School; · 3rd Place went to Nicola LaPia from Dacula High School; · The Honorable Mention went to Quinn Hasty from Apalachee High School; and · The People’s Choice Award went to Rebecca Moye from Loganville Christian Academy. “I was thrilled to participate in Saturday’s celebration of art as high school students from across the district showcased their talent,” said Congressman Hice. “I applaud all of our students, especially this year’s winners, Emma, Savannah, Nicola, Quinn, and Rebecca, who worked so hard to enrich our community with their outstanding artistic abilities. Emma’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol, alongside the masterpieces of contest winners nation-wide, and I’m so proud of her achievement.” Fifty-four high school students from the 10th Congressional District participated in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Click HERE to view photos from Saturday’s ceremony. ###
05.01.2017	Monroe, GA – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (GA-10) honored Quinn Hasty, the recipient of the Honorable Mention in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, at the Monroe Art Guild on Saturday, April 29th. Quinn, a junior at Apalachee High School, submitted an ink portrait, entitled “Jack.” She was one of 54 high school students from the 10th Congressional District who participated in this year’s contest. Click HERE to view photos from Saturday’s ceremony. ###
05.01.2017	Monroe, GA – U.S. Representative Jody Hice (GA-10) honored Rebecca Moye, the recipient of the People’s Choice Award in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, at the Monroe Art Guild on Saturday, April 29th. Rebecca, a junior at Loganville Christian Academy, submitted a color pencil drawing, entitled “Tropical Majesty”. She was one of 54 high school students from the 10th Congressional District who participated in this year’s contest. Click HERE to view photos from Saturday’s ceremony. ###
04.27.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in coordination with the Alzheimer’s Association, will host a Coffee and Conversation event at the Warren County Senior Citizen Center. This free, informational event will take place on Thursday, May 11th from 10:30 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. Congressman Hice will provide a legislative update, speak with Alzheimer’s patients, families, and caregivers about their experiences with the disease, and lead a question and answer forum for others to share their personal stories. “Almost one third of Americans are affected by Alzheimer’s disease,” said Congressman Hice. “My mother was among the many Americans who suffered from this debilitating disease, so I understand the pain of caregivers and their families. Thankfully, there are organizations, like the Alzheimer’s Association, that offer Alzheimer’s care, support, and research. If you’d like helpful information about caring for a loved one with Alzheimer’s or other forms of dementia, I invite you to join me at the Warren County Senior Center where I will share my story and look forward to hearing yours. ” What: Coffee and Conversation with Congressman Hice Who: U.S. Representative Jody Hice and the Alzheimer’s Association When: 10:30 am – 11:30 am on Thursday, May 11, 2017 Where: Warren County Senior Citizen Center 48 Warren Street Warrenton, GA 30828 For more information, please call 706-564-1286. Coffee and light refreshments will be served. Registration is not required. ###
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after the introduction of the MacArthur Amendment to improve H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA): “Without question, no one is more committed to repealing Obamacare than I am. I’ve fought since day one to roll back Obamacare’s government takeover of our health care system. After a full evaluation, countless meetings and negotiations, input from my constituents, and with the addition of the MacArthur Amendment, I will be supporting the American Health Care Act. “I commend President Trump, Vice President Pence, Speaker Ryan, and my colleagues for keeping the lines of communication open, which has ultimately led to a better bill. Due to our collaborative work, the AHCA now immediately eliminates Obamacare taxes that would have otherwise remained, creates a work requirement for adult able-bodied recipients of Medicaid, includes the Palmer Amendment to ensure affordable coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions, and drives down premiums and costs for all Americans across the board. “The MacArthur Amendment empowers states to seek and obtain waivers from Obamacare’s premium-spiking mandates and takes steps to rid the health care law of its most costly provisions. “While the battle for a full repeal is not over, implementing conservative provisions that keep the legislative process focused on free-market, patient-centered health care, lower costs for consumers, and provide greater access to care for all Americans is a victory. I will continue to search for solutions that offer more relief for hardworking American families, and we will work with our Senate colleagues to further improve the AHCA and deliver on our promises.” ###
04.24.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in partnership with Monroe Downtown and the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts, today announced that he will host the 2017 Congressional Art Competition student celebration on Saturday. The event, which will feature an artwork scavenger hunt, will begin at 10:00 a.m. at the Monroe Art Guild, located at 205 South Broad Street. Those who complete the hunt will be entered into a drawing for prizes. During the event, Congressman Hice will announce the winner of this year’s contest. “I am extremely impressed by the artistic abilities of Georgia’s 10th District high school students,” said Hice. “Because their outstanding work deserves recognition, I hope that as many people as possible will join me on Saturday at the Monroe Art Guild as we celebrate art together.” Fifty-four high school students have submitted their artwork for a chance to receive a trip to Washington, D.C. and the honor of having their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol. While artists from the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts will decide who receives this top distinction, Georgia’s residents will determine the recipient of the People’s Choice Award. Click HERE to view the entries and to cast your vote. What: 2017 Congressional Art Competition Celebration Who: Congressman Jody Hice, 10th District Students, and Local Residents When: Saturday, April 29, 2016 from 10:00 a.m. to Noon Where: Monroe Art Guild 205 South Broad Street Monroe, GA ###
04.18.2017	(Monroe, GA) Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he is inviting the public to cast their vote for the People’s Choice Award in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Fifty-two high school students in Georgia’s 10th Congressional District have submitted their artwork for a chance to receive a trip to Washington, D.C. and the honor of having their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol. While artists from the Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts will decide who receives this top distinction, Georgia’s residents will determine the recipient of the People’s Choice Award. “I am extremely impressed by the artistic abilities of Georgia’s 10th District high school students,” said Hice. “Because their outstanding work deserves recognition, I hope that as many people as possible will visit my Facebook page to view their artwork, leave a positive comment, and vote for their favorite piece. Then, you’re invited to join us at the Monroe Art Guild on Saturday, April 29th at 10:00 a.m. as we celebrate art together.” Hice will announce the recipient of the People’s Choice Award at the Monroe Art Guild, located at 205 South Broad Street, on Saturday, April 29th. The winner of the People’s Choice Award will receive a prize from a downtown merchant and his or her artwork will hang in the Congressman’s Monroe, Georgia office. To view this year’s submissions, go online to www.facebook.com/RepJodyHice and click on “Photos.” The Congressman will award one point for each “like” and two points for each “share,” and the photo with the most points wins. Voting closes at 3:00 p.m. on April 28th. Click HERE to cast your vote. ###
04.13.2017	COVINGTON, GA – The Newton/Covington Office of Economic Development (NCOED) hosted Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) this week for an economic development tour of the area. The NCOED gave Hice, who represents Georgia’s 10th District, a picture of the economic opportunities presented by longstanding businesses and those just breaking ground located in the Newton, Covington, and Walton area. Representative Hice visited three businesses on his tour of the region, which took place on Wednesday, April 11th. Bard Medical, a division of C.R. Bard, Inc., and Bridgestone Golf are both long-term business residents of Covington; the two together employ nearly 1,000 people. The third site on Hice’s visit was the future location of Three Ring Studios, a film, TV, music, and video game production site scheduled to be operational by December 2017 with a potential for creating up to 3,000 direct jobs, including 2,000 in the county. “Promoting economic development in the 10th District is vital to ensuring that Georgia remains the best place to do business,” said Congressman Hice. “Newton County has built a thriving community that offers not only new job opportunities, but real career choices. I applaud the hard work and dedication of our community leaders, who have helped make Newton County a place where people are encouraged to settle down and build a long-term future with their friends and family.” “Almost 100,000 people moved to metro Atlanta last year, many in search of job opportunities,” said David Bernd, vice president of economic development, NCOED. “Our job is to continue to build a quality talent pool and recruit residents within the Metro Atlanta region to make Newton County their home, which increases out potential workforce. That will in turn attract more businesses to relocate to Newton and continue to encourage our existing businesses to expand operations.” The Atlanta area is the ninth-largest metropolitan statistical area in the country. The region grew by 1.6 percent from 2015 to 2016, boosting its population to 5,789,700. Metro Atlanta also added 77,000 jobs last year, the third-highest total among the nation’s 12 largest metro areas, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Atlanta Regional Commission. The 29- county Atlanta area trailed only Dallas and Phoenix. 1,144 of those new jobs were in the Newton, Covington, and Walton area. “Newton County has done a remarkable job of building a thriving community that includes quality of life, good schools and just enough distance from metro Atlanta to retain that sense of 'small town' community,” added Bernd. “People are encouraged to settle here, to build a long- term future with a job and a family. I predict we will continue to see significant growth here over the next decade.” Congressman Hice meeting with Bard Medical employees during a recent site visit ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement regarding yesterday’s U.S. military airstrikes in Syria: “My heart aches at the horrific images that came out of Syria earlier this week. I stand with the President and commend his swift and decisive action. I have the deepest appreciation for our brave men and women in uniform for their efforts and execution which make it possible for the United States to send a strong message to Assad and the international community that his actions are unacceptable. Moving forward, it is critically important that the Administration engage with Congress and clearly communicate its strategy for the region with the American people.” ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement on the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “By confirming Judge Gorsuch as our next Associate Justice to the Supreme Court, the Senate fulfilled one of its most vital Constitutional tasks. Judge Gorsuch is a principled and well-respected jurist who understands that his duty is to interpret the law, not to change it to advance his own personal agenda. I want to commend President Trump for keeping his promise to the American people by nominating a judge in the mold of the late Justice Antonin Scalia. Throughout this process, Judge Gorsuch has distinguished himself as a thoughtful and balanced jurist, and I congratulate him on his confirmation to the highest court in the land. Today is a victory for our Nation and the rule of law.” ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) and Members of the Congressional Western Caucus, Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Executive Vice Chairman Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chief Defense and Interior Officer Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01), House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Rep. Raul Labrador (ID-01), Rep. Randy Weber (TX-14), Rep. Andy Biggs (AZ-05), Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), and Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05), today released the following statements after President Trump signed the American Energy Independence Executive Order: “The damaging energy mandates from the last eight years have hindered America’s energy independence for far too long,” said Congressman Hice. “President Trump’s new executive order is the first step toward eradicating regulatory barriers while delivering an all-of-the-above energy strategy that stimulates innovation, development, and security. It is vital to our national and fiscal security that we restore economic freedom by utilizing cutting edge technology to unleash affordable, reliable, and clean supplies of energy. I applaud President Trump for his dedication to prioritizing energy independence and a bustling economy for the benefit of all Americans.” “Today’s executive order is based on a fundamental truth: Energy drives our economy. President Obama disregarded this, and the result was a barrage of regulations that crippled America’s energy industry. That is all in the past now,” said Speaker Ryan. “President Trump’s executive order will help America’s energy workers and reverse much of the damage done. In particular, I hope that this action will result in full repeal of the Clean Power Plan, which ravaged coal country and was temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court last year. We are committed to repealing regulations that hurt jobs and drive up the cost of energy. To build on this, the House will act on legislation this week that ensures any new EPA regulations are rooted in science.” “President Trump is taking action to keep the lights on in our homes, our factories, and throughout our economy's supply chain. America will have a stronger future by developing, not neglecting, the abundant energy resources our land offers. The rationale behind this action is what Republicans have been arguing for years: environmental protections and economic growth are not mutually exclusive,” said Majority Leader McCarthy. “Innovation and technological changes have proven our ability to advance energy development in a cleaner and safer way. We are a resilient people who power a resilient economy. Unleashing our energy potential will strongly support jobs and healthier lives for everyone." “As President Trump stated today and we all know, ‘States and local communities know what is best for them.’ The Obama Administration did everything in its power to trample on that authority and dictate wildly out-of-touch mandates from Washington, D.C.,” said Chairman Gosar. “With the signing of today’s American Energy Independence Executive Order, the previous regulatory regime that stamped out innovation, killed jobs, and consistently moved the goalposts to untenable distances for the energy sector, is one step closer to being erased. Today’s action from President Trump proves that environmental protections and economic development are not mutually exclusive goals. Western Caucus looks forward to continuing to work with President Trump, Administrator Pruitt, Secretary Zinke and Secretary Perry to deliver commonsense energy solutions that are good for the American people.” Congressman Tipton remarked, “The Obama Administration did everything in its power to pick winners and losers in American energy production. That era is now over, and I am glad that the administration is taking action to grow jobs and preserve hardworking Americans’ access to affordable and reliable energy. I look forward to advancing more policies that support an all-of-the-above approach to U.S. energy.” “President Obama’s Coal Power Plan was just another example of expensive, excessive big-government regulation, resulting in fewer jobs and increased energy bills. By signing this Executive Order, President Trump is following through on his promise to reduce burdensome regulations and promoting an all-of-the-above energy platform,” said Congressman Stewart. “Coal along with natural gas, wind, solar, nuclear, hydro, and geothermal will continue to serve as an important part of our national energy infrastructure.” “The Obama Administration continuously attacked our nation’s production of reliable energy resources, which crippled economic opportunity in New Mexico and across the nation. Today’s Executive Order by President Trump reverses these job-killing regulations and reaffirms our commitment to expanding domestic energy production. This will reduce government overreach and return the power back to the states where it belongs. New Mexicans deserve affordable energy and access to good-paying, energy jobs that are created through this industry,” said Congressman Pearce. “I applaud our President for revitalizing our nation’s energy plan by eliminating the unnecessary war on coal, the BLM’s hydraulic fracturing and venting and flaring rules, and the EPA’s methane rule. Now, we can begin moving forward towards an ‘all of the above’ energy plan that creates jobs and better sustains low energy prices for all Americans. New Mexico will once again have the opportunity to become a leader in our nation’s energy development.” Chairman Bishop said, “This order begins the reversal of a number of harmful and ideologically-driven policies. We will work with the President to add statutory permanence to prevent future administrations from resurrecting this harmful regulatory agenda.” Congressman Labrador remarked, “I appreciate President Trump’s leadership in rolling back some of the previous administration’s most disastrous energy policies. In Idaho, as in so many other states, the Obama Administration’s environmental extremism has killed jobs and hurt the competitiveness of our economy. We still have a lot of work to do to make America energy independent, and as a member of the Natural Resources Committee, I look forward to working with President Trump and his team.” “President Trump’s American Energy Independence Executive Order will increase the efficiency of American businesses in the Energy Sector,” said Congressman Weber. “The focus of the order will right the wrongs of the CPP – a plan currently challenged by 150 entities, and which never had bipartisan support in the House. The President is using his authority to cut the CPP’s burdensome regulations to allow the EPA to focus on its original mission.” Congressman Biggs said, “The Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan, Social Cost of Carbon, CEQ guidance, and methane rule were prime examples of federal overreach and executive fiat threatening countless jobs around the country. For a number of years, Arizona fought against these harmful regulations enacted by unelected bureaucrats, and I am pleased to see oversight and accountability restored through President Trump’s executive order. I look forward to working with our newly confirmed EPA Secretary Scott Pruitt and my colleagues in Congress to continue to roll back these detrimental, job-killing regulations as we seek to revitalize the American economy.” “Today’s executive order is another positive step towards putting the United States back on the path to becoming energy independent with an all-of-the-above strategy that benefits entrepreneurs, consumers and families across the country. I applaud President Trump’s commitment to rolling back the onerous Obama Administration regulations, like the Clean Power Plan, that were imposed with huge economic costs identified but without clearly defined environmental benefits, and look forward to continuing these efforts in Congress.” remarked Congressman Emmer. “I am pleased that the President is fulfilling his promise to help America become energy independent. With this Executive Order, President Trump has rolled back the Obama Administration’s most harmful environmental regulations—including the Clean Power Plan, which has cost many American jobs and has driven up energy costs for American families. The time is long overdue to relieve the burdens of the Obama Administration’s restrictive energy policies and return power to the states,” said Congressman Lamborn. “I look forward to a new energy strategy that unleashes our vast natural resources and creates new jobs to boost the American economy.” “I am happy to see the President move to undo some of the burdensome, job-killing regulations implemented by the previous Administration. Let’s remember that these unreasonable regulations did not come into force because of new laws, but simply because of more executive action. That is why I can applaud the removal of these burdens by executive action now. Under President Obama, the Environmental Protection Agency had gotten out of control – unfairly targeting certain sectors and threatening entire industries,” said Congressman LaMalfa. “This Executive Order pulls back from the EPA’s overly burdensome Clean Power Plan, lifts a moratorium on new coal leases on federal lands, while also rolling back several other Obama-era EPA regulations that overstep the agency’s authority and place an undue burden on our economy and job growth. This will unleash our country’s energy industry and help enable America to become truly energy independent.” “Today’s executive action will eliminate needless federal overreach and allows workers and energy producer to compete and succeed on a level playing field,” Congressman Thompson said. “The Clean Power Plan had serious flaws and needs to be reevaluated. Although states like Pennsylvania have had significant carbon reductions, the proposed plan would have negatively affected thousands of jobs and nearly 30 percent of our electrical generation throughout the Commonwealth, without significant environmental benefits.” Background: Today, President Donald J. Trump signed the Energy Independence Policy Executive Order. The text of the Executive Order can be found HERE. (Courtesy of the White House) This Executive Order calls for an immediate re-evaluation of the so-called Clean Power Plan. Perhaps no single regulation threatens our miners more than this crushing attack on American industry. Second, it directs the Secretary of the Interior to lift the federal coal leasing moratorium. Third, it lifts the job-killing restrictions on the production of oil, natural gas, clean coal and shale energy. Fourth, it withdraws several Social Cost of Carbon directives. Finally, it returns power to the states – where it belongs. States and local communities know what is best for them, and they are the ones we should empower to decide. More specifically, President Donald J. Trump’s Energy Independence Policy Executive Order reverses the regulations on American jobs and energy production. President Trump’s Executive Order directs the Environmental Protection Agency to suspend, revise, or rescind four actions related to the Clean Power Plan (CPP) that would stifle the American energy industry. President Trump’s Executive Order directs the Attorney General to seek appropriate relief from the courts over pending litigation related to the CPP. President Trump’s Executive Order rescinds seven Executive actions centered on the previous administration’s climate change agenda that have acted as a road block to energy independence. President Trump’ Executive Order directs agencies to use the best available science and economics in regulatory analysis. It disbands the Interagency Working Group (IWG) on the Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases. It withdraws six technical documents produced by the IWG, the work of which will no longer represent Government policy, because it did not follow sound guidelines governing cost-benefit analysis. President Trump’s Executive Order directs all agencies to conduct a review of existing actions that harm domestic energy production and suspend, revise, or rescind actions that are not mandated by law. Within 180 days, agencies must finalize their plans. More information on the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan The Clean Power Plan has serious legal and policy flaws. For years, energy producing states have argued that this plan is an overreach by EPA, interfering with the states’ sovereign rights. As directed by this Executive Order, EPA will review the CPP to ensure that the agency is abiding by the Clean Air Act and respecting the rule of law. A bipartisan majority in the 114th Congress rejected the CPP, in the form of S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res 24, legislation which vetoed by President Obama. In February 2016, the Supreme Court took the unprecedented step to stay the implementation of the CPP. The stay is for good reason as the CPP was being challenged by over 150 entities including 28 states, 24 trade associations, 37 rural electric co-ops, and 3 labor unions. The previous Administration’s Clean Power Plan could cost up to $39 billion a year and increase electricity prices in 41 States by at least ten percent, according to NERA Economic Consulting. The Clean Power Plan would cause coal production to fall by 242 million tons, according to the National Mining Association. 27 states, 24 trade associations, 37 rural electric co-ops, and 3 labor unions are challenging the Clean Power Plan in Federal court. ###
03.27.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), in coordination with Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue and the Georgia Congressional Delegation, invites students to attend Military Service Academy Day on Saturday, April 29th at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. The event, which is the largest in the Nation of its kind, is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for applying to each of the military service academies. “Our Nation’s service academies have a long tradition of developing tomorrow’s leaders,” said Congressman Hice. “This annual Service Academy Day is a can’t-miss event for those hoping to attend the U.S. Military, Naval, Air Force, Merchant Marine, or Coast Guard Academies. These fine institutions provide students with a first-rate education and train them to become commissioned officers for the United States Armed Forces. I encourage students to learn more about this exceptional opportunity and speak to representatives about their academy admission requirements.” The Military Service Academy Day is free and open to students in grades eight through twelve. The event will take place from 10:00-11:30 AM at Dobbins Air Reserve Base located at 1408 Dobbins Place, Dobbins ARB, Marietta, GA 30069. Guests should arrive as early as 9:00 AM to clear security and to visit information tables. Due to the restrictions at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, all who plan to attend must register online no later than Monday, April 17th at 5:00 p.m. Each person, including parents, who will attend Academy Day must register due to the requirements for entry onto the military base. What: Military Service Academy Day 2017 Who: America’s Service Academies Representatives and Students in Grades 8-12 When: Saturday, April 29, 2017 from 10:00-11:30 AM Where: Dobbins Air Reserve Base 1408 Dobbins Place, Dobbins ARB Marietta, GA 30069 Students who are unable to attend may visit https://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/serviceacademynominations.htm for more information about academy nominations. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Jody Hice (R-GA) and Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) today introduced H.R. 1668, the Bureau of Land Management Foundation Act. H.R. 1668 establishes a new foundation that will leverage private funding to assist federal land management agencies with abandoned mine lands cleanup as well as other mission areas. “When millions of gallons of toxic waste gushed into the Animas River from the Gold King Mine in 2015, the urgency to address the problem of pollution from abandoned mines became abundantly clear,” said Rep. Hice. “By replacing substandard federal regulations with private sector policies and procedures, the Bureau of Land Management Foundation will increase the pace and scale of cleaning up contaminated water at abandoned mine sites across the nation. I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner with Rep. Lowenthal and my Resources Committee colleagues to implement comprehensive spill prevention methods.” “The establishment of a Bureau of Land Management Foundation is long overdue,” said Rep. Lowenthal. “It would provide the BLM with an important partner, and allow private individuals and corporations to support the BLM’s diverse mission, which includes activities such as managing wild horses, protecting cultural resources and cleaning up abandoned hardrock mines. I am proud to work cooperatively with Rep. Hice and the Natural Resources Committee to get this bill passed.” Background: Last Congress, Representative Hice sponsored a similar bill, H.R. 3884, the Bureau of Land Management Foundation Act, and it passed the House by a bipartisan voice vote on July 5, 2016. ###
03.21.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today reminded students in grades nine through twelve that the deadline for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition is quickly approaching. Students wishing to participate should submit their artwork to one of the Congressman’s three district offices by Thursday, April 6th. The winning artist will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and will be awarded with a trip to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception with other student winners from across the nation. “Each Spring when Members of Congress sponsor this annual arts competition, I’m always amazed at how incredibly gifted 10th District students are,” said Congressman Hice. “Georgia has some of the most talented students in the nation, and I encourage them to take advantage of this remarkable opportunity to showcase their artwork in a national exhibit.” Contestants must fill out a student release form and ensure that their artwork complies with competition guidelines. Congressman Hice will announce the winner and present awards for the top entries on Saturday, April 29th during a reception at Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts. For details and more information, please visit Congressman Hice’s website at www.hice.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. ###
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-growth policies in the second session of the 114th Congress. “Businesses of all shapes and sizes need sound, commonsense policy in place in order to get off the ground, grow, and succeed,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes those members of Congress who have done what’s right for our friends, family, and neighbors running businesses across the country. We applaud Congressman Jody Hice for his commitment to free enterprise and economic growth.” “Reducing regulatory red tape and focusing on pro-business principles will help create jobs and grow our economy,” said Congressman Hice. “Now more than ever, we need to implement policies that create space for businesses to flourish and hire more workers. I am humbled to receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award and will continue fighting every day to fuel economic opportunity for Georgia’s hardworking families and businesses.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s annual scorecard, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the second session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on eight Senate votes and 14 House votes related to access to capital for small businesses, ensuring our workforce has the skills necessary for the jobs of tomorrow, and helping American manufacturers compete in a global economy. In addition, votes in support of building the U.S. water infrastructure system, protecting intellectual property, and updating energy policy also factored into scoring. According to this year’s scorecard, Hice received a 100% rating with the Chamber in 2016. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. Suzanne Clarke, Senior Executive Vice President for the U.S. Chamber, presents Congressman Hice with Spirit of Enterprise Award ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) recently introduced H.R. 1364, the Official Time Reform Act, which would prohibit federal employees from grassroots lobbying while on “official time,” a practice by which federal employees are legally permitted to conduct union-related activities – during the work day – instead of performing the jobs they were hired to do. The bill would also prohibit employees who spend more than 80% of their work on official time from counting that time as creditable service under the Civil Service Retirement System and Federal Employee Retirements System. During the mark-up, the Committee adopted an amendment introduced by Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) which would prohibit federal employees operating on 80% or more official time from receiving bonuses. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the legislation passed the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee: “Despite the obligation of federal employees to the taxpayer to complete the job they were hired to perform, the government has thousands of employees who spend the majority of their regular working hours on union activity and lobbying efforts. In Fiscal Year 2015, the Department of Veterans Affairs had over 300 employees – nurses, therapists, pharmacists, a physician, and even a prosthetic limb specialist – who were hired to serve our brave warriors but instead operated exclusively on official time. Rather than helping our heroes, these individuals spend all their time engaging in union activities such as collective bargaining, filing complaints or grievances, and even grassroots lobbying. This is unacceptable and a grave misuse of valuable resources. “Through my committee work, I’ve questioned many agency heads about their management of official time, and each time, the wasteful pattern emerges and is left unchecked. Simply put, paying federal employees to do union work interferes with providing the services that taxpayers deserve. In order to combat this waste of taxpayer money, the Official Time Reform Act is a much-needed action to overhauling this egregious practice as we seek greater accountability and transparency within our federal government. “Federal employees are free to engage in union activities on their own time, and they are free to use union resources and dues to fund those activities; however, taxpayer dollars should be used for public, not private, needs. I applaud the work that went into this legislation and look forward to its consideration on the House Floor.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today voted in favor of H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017, which provides responsible funding for the Department of Defense. The measure passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 371 – 48. Representative Hice released the following statement after the bill’s passage: “There is no higher Constitutional obligation than to provide for our national security. Without question, rebuilding our military will be an enormous task. Today’s passage of the defense appropriations bill was a responsible step towards modernizing our defense arsenal and increasing our military readiness. We must keep pace with the diverse and complex challenges of our time by giving our men and women in uniform the resources they need to carry out their missions effectively and safely. “In his joint address, President Trump outlined the need to expand our nuclear, cyber, and technological capabilities. I am proud to have voted in favor of a bill that supports these priorities, as well as a 2.1% pay raise for our troops and increased funding for vital weapon programs, including next-generation JSTARS fleet, the Ohio-class submarine replacement program, and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. This legislation gives our military what it needs to identify and stop our adversaries while protecting the American people.” ###
03.02.2017	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced today that he invites students in grades nine through twelve to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The winning artist will receive round-trip tickets to attend a national reception in Washington, D.C., and his or her artwork will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. “Each Spring when Members of Congress sponsor this annual arts competition, I’m always amazed at how incredibly gifted 10th District students are,” said Congressman Hice. “Georgia has some of the most talented students in the nation, and I encourage them to take advantage of this remarkable opportunity to showcase their artwork in a national exhibit.” Students may access the Student Information and Release Form and competition guidelines online at www.hice.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. All entries must be original in concept and design and should be submitted to one of the Congressman’s three district offices by Thursday, April 6th. Congressman Hice will announce the winner and present awards for the top entries on Saturday, April 29th during a reception at Monroe-Walton Center for the Arts. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today released the following statement regarding President Trump’s first Joint Address to Congress: “President Trump’s address was an uplifting proclamation of strength, confidence, and hope in pursuit of a greater Nation and better future for every American. In true fashion, President Trump did not sugarcoat the immense challenges that our country faces. Rather, he set the tone and agenda for the American people and reaffirmed that the American dream is alive. Our spirit as a Nation has been revived. “While we have made progress delivering real solutions for the American people in the first two months of the 115th Congress, there’s more work that needs to be done. In order to grow a robust economy, we must roll back the burdensome, job-crushing regulations that hinder growth and stifle opportunity. It is past time that we overhaul the tax code to incentivize investments supporting our small businesses and job creators rather than targeting them with costly, unnecessary rules and regulations. “The Trump Administration and this Congress will put America first. National security is a top priority, and we will do everything within our power to fight the new and emerging global threats of this millennium. That starts by adequately funding our national defense, rebuilding our military, and affording our warfighters with every tool they need to accomplish their missions. Simply put, it is the right and duty of the President and Congress to do everything in our legal and Constitutional power to protect the American people. “I’m confident that America's best days are ahead. With hard work and renewed optimism, we can secure a bright future for our children and grandchildren. The time is now, and it is the responsibility of this Congress to work with the Administration to create an environment where our Nation can truly flourish.” ###
02.23.2017	Evans, GA – On Wednesday, February 22, 2017, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), together with Congressman Rick Allen (GA-12), Columbia County Commission Chairman Ron Cross, Ten Commandments Georgia President Tom Rush, and local residents, delivered the Foundations of American Law and Government display to the Columbia County Justice Center. Acknowledging the need to educate the public about the history and background of American law, Governor Nathan Deal in 2012 signed a law which authorized the posting of the Foundations of American Law and Government display in all public buildings. ###
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressmen Jody Hice (GA-10) and Steve Scalise (LA-01) introduced H.R. 781, the Free Speech Fairness Act, which would amend the U.S. tax code to restore free speech for 501(c)(3) organizations including churches, nonprofits, and educational institutions, so long as they are (1) made in the ordinary course of the organization’s regular and customary activities in carrying out its tax-exempt purpose, and (2) any expenditure related to this are de minimis. A companion bill, S.264, was introduced by Senator James Lankford (R-OK) in the Senate. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the bill was introduced: “Our Nation was built on the foundation that freedom of speech and freedom of religion are unalienable rights. For too long, the IRS has used the Johnson Amendment to silence and threaten religious institutions and charitable entities. As a minister who has experienced intimidation from the IRS firsthand, I know just how important it is to ensure that our churches and nonprofit organizations are allowed the same fundamental rights as every citizen of this great Nation. I’m proud that our legislation accomplishes just that, because America is stronger and better when all of our citizens are free to express their convictions. I am also heartened that President Trump reaffirmed his commitment to repealing Johnson at this morning’s National Prayer Breakfast and look forward to working with him to make repeal a reality.” ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) today released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump announced Neil Gorsuch of the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals as the nominee for Supreme Court Justice: “Without question, Justice Antonin Scalia was an incomparable and irreplaceable legal scholar who inspired millions, including myself, with his steadfast defense of the Constitution. He adhered to the precepts of our Founding Fathers, possessed strong conservative values, and exhibited an intellect and thoughtful analysis that is rarely seen today. With the selection of Neil Gorsuch, I am confident that he will be a jurist in the mold of Justice Scalia, and I look forward to the Senate’s speedy confirmation of such a worthy candidate.” ###
01.30.2017	Monroe, GA – In an ongoing effort to provide excellent constituent services, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with two opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in February. Mobile Office Hours provides residents who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office because of time or location restrictions the opportunity to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “While I'm hard at work in Washington, D.C., I have a dedicated full-time team in the 10th Congressional District who stand willing and ready to help," said Congressman Hice. “If you have questions regarding Social Security benefits, Medicare, immigration, veterans’ benefits, the IRS, and other federal programs, I hope you will take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours. This month, my staff will set up shop at the Greene County Farm Bureau in Greensboro and then pay a special visit to the members of the Loganville Senior Center.” Greene County, GA (Staff from Sens. Johnny Isakson & David Perdue’s offices will also be present) Friday, February 10 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Greene County Government Office Commission Meeting Room 1034 Silver Drive Greensboro, GA In addition to the Greene County meeting, Congressman Hice will send a staff member to the Loganville Senior Center to make a private presentation to its local participants. To request an informational session for an organization or group, please call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 to schedule an event. ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, announced that Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) has appointed him to serve as Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Government Operations. Chaired by Congressman Mark Meadows (NC-11), the Subcommittee on Government Operations holds public officials accountable and ensures that the American people have access to critical information about the operations of the federal government. With legislative and oversight jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Treasury, the Executive Office of the President, the U.S. Postal Service, the Department of Labor, and the Office of Management and Budget, the subcommittee ensures that federal agencies are open and transparent in their execution of federal law. The subcommittee also has legislative jurisdiction over drug policy, federal records, and the District of Columbia. “I'm pleased to have Jody serve as Vice Chairman of the Government Operations Subcommittee,” said Chairman Chaffetz. “He has a strong grasp on the realities facing our federal workforce and understands the need for crucial reforms. His experience paired with steady leadership will be valuable to this Committee moving forward.” “Oversight of our federal government is the most critical tool in our crusade against waste, fraud, and abuse,” said Congressman Hice. “In matters of mismanagement, a swift, thorough, and complete investigation is absolutely necessary to achieve results on behalf of the American people. As Vice Chairman, an integral part of my job will be to make sure that our government is operating in an effective, efficient, and fiscally responsible manner. I’m grateful that Chairman Chaffetz selected me for this important position, and I look forward to continuing my service on this vital committee.” In addition to this appointment, Congressman Hice will continue to serve on the Subcommittee on National Security. ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017, by a vote of 238 - 183. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the passage of the measure: “No American should ever be forced to pay for abortions. Period. The Hyde Amendment has been a staple of protecting the unborn for 40 years, saving more than two million lives, including 99,350 lives in the State of Georgia. Needless to say, it is vital that we keep it in place. I am pleased that President Trump has made it abundantly clear that the Administration is committed to a consistent, government-wide policy that no taxpayer dollars should fund abortion or the abortion industry — either domestically or internationally. With the President’s commitment and the action taken today by the House, we will continue fighting for the culture of life.” Additionally, Congressman Hice announced the introduction of H.R. 586, the Sanctity of Human Life Act. The Sanctity of Human Life Act defines life as beginning at fertilization, defending the inalienable right to life protected by the Constitution. Congressman Hice, who authored H.R. 586 ahead of the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, released the following statement in response to the bill’s introduction: “In the Declaration of Independence, our Founding Fathers affirmed that everyone is endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, chief among them being life. Today, with the right to life under attack, now more than ever before, we must stand up as advocates for the unborn. Our culture must affirm the value of the weak and vulnerable in our society, beginning with our children. With that in mind, I introduced the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which rightly defines life as beginning at conception. I am proud of this legislation and proud to be a voice for the unborn with clarity and conviction.” ###
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. Con. Res. 3, the FY’17 Budget Resolution which establishes the method to repeal Obamacare. Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) released the following statement after the passage of the legislation: “The history of Obamacare is clear-cut: It was crafted behind closed doors, with no real discussion of opposing views; it was overly complicated, riddled with mountains of mandates and penalties; and it has failed to rein in costs, causing the collapse of exchanges, double-digit premium increases, and fewer healthcare choices for patients. Simply put, Obamacare is an expensive failure that is unpopular, unworkable, and unaffordable. “By passing S. Con. Res. 3, we opened a procedural door to repealing this deeply flawed law, following through on our promise to the American people. While conversations about the replacement plan are ongoing, rest assured that there will be a smooth transition period between the current system and a new free-market healthcare system that is patient-centered. Americans deserve the freedom to buy coverage that is right for their needs and budgets, not the needs of Washington. With President-elect Donald Trump and Dr. Tom Price at the helm, Congress will pass legislation that will increase access to the care Americans need, at a price they can afford. “This budget resolution is far from perfect. It is a snapshot of where we’ve been under the Obama Administration, not a roadmap of where we need to go moving forward. Time and again, President Obama has ignored the staggering losses caused by his flawed policies simply to preserve his legacy. As soon as the Trump Administration is able to submit a budget to Congress detailing its priorities, Congress will debate more conservative budget proposals designed to restore fiscal order and achieve long-term fiscal sustainability. Today’s vote was a vote for relief for Americans who have been suffering for too long under a burdensome system. It’s time to make healthcare work for all Americans.” ##
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representative passed S. 84, legislation which will provide an exception to a limitation against the appointment of a person as Secretary of Defense who is within seven years of having left active duty as a regular commissioned officer of the Armed Forces. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the passage of the legislation: “As an intelligent and seasoned warrior, General James Mattis will serve our country with bravery and honor as Secretary of Defense. His decades of command experience and his fundamental understanding of civilian and military relations is unparalleled. He is the best man for the job, and I’m proud to vote for S. 84, which clears the path for his confirmation. I’m confident in his ability to shape our Nation’s military strategy and foreign policy and renew U.S. leadership. I urge my Senate colleagues to confirm General Mattis immediately for the good of our warfighters, who serve and defend Americans here at home and around the world.” ##
01.10.2017	Milledgeville, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced the names of the high school and college students whom he nominated for appointments to America’s Service Academies. He also extended his congratulations to Jacob Allen of Loganville, William Johnson of Warrenton, and Alexis Shirley of Watkinsville, the first of his nominees to receive academy appointments this year. “It is my honor to offer my congratulations to these exceptional students who are among the best and brightest in the Tenth Congressional District,” said Congressman Hice. “These young men and women exemplify the highest attributes of character, scholarship, and patriotism and will go on to become the future leaders of America’s Armed Forces. Jacob, William, and Alexis are the first of twenty-five students whom I nominated to receive prestigious appointments to one of our Nation’s Service Academies, and I look forward to congratulating additional nominees in the weeks and months ahead.” Congressman Hice has the privilege of nominating eligible students to the United States Air Force (USAFA), Naval (USNA), Military (USMA), and Merchant Marine (USMMA) Academies. Please note that a nomination does not mean a student will automatically receive an offer of admission, officially referred to as an appointment. The Service Academies’ admissions authorities make the final determination. Congressman Hice submitted for nomination the following twenty-five students: 1. Jacob Allen (Loganville, GA), Walnut Grove High School – offered appointment to United States Air Force Academy 2. Christopher Austin (Oxford, GA), Georgia State University 3. Shane Blalock (McDonough, GA), Ola High School 4. Justin Blough (Braselton, GA), Mill Creek High School 5. Benjamin Bruner (Athens, GA), Cedar Shoals High School 6. William Caldwell V (Milledgeville, GA), Georgia Military College 7. Jack Chambers (Bishop, GA), North Oconee High School 8. Allen Dodge (Evans, GA), Augusta Christian High School 9. Craig Edwards (Social Circle, GA), Providence Christian School 10. Zachary Fedak (Evans, GA), Greenbrier High School 11. Wyatt Galloway (Mansfield, GA), Piedmont Academy 12. Justin Gittemeier (McDonough, GA), Union Grove High School 13. Ian Gonzales (Auburn, GA), Dacula High School 14. Garrett Hipp (Dacula, GA), Archer High School 15. Alexa Jacquitte (Monroe, GA), George Walton Academy 16. Anna Jerald (Bishop, GA), North Oconee High School 17. William Johnson (Warrenton, GA), Briarwood Academy – offered appointment to United States Air Force Academy 18. Korrey King (McDonough, GA), Naval Academy Preparatory School 19. Madison McKee (Dacula, GA), Bethlehem Christian Academy 20. Thomas Mims (Buckhead, GA), Riverside Military Academy 21. Forde Norris (Athens, GA), Prince Avenue Christian School 22. Morgan Phillips (Winterville, GA), University of North Georgia 23. Andrew Salies (McDonough, GA), United States Military Academy Preparatory School 24. Richard Salies (McDonough, GA), Georgia State University 25. Alexis Shirley (Watkinsville, GA), North Oconee High School – accepted appointment to United States Air Force Academy Hice made his decision after consulting with his 2016-2017 Military Academy Selection Board. He was honored to have the following members serve on his board: Stu Mosbey, Colonel, USAF (Ret.), Todd Miller, Lieutenant Colonel, USA (Ret.), Seth Hathaway, Lieutenant Colonel, USMC (Ret.), Edward Shelor, Lieutenant Colonel, USMC (Ret.), Dr. Curtis Jones, Jr., Lieutenant Colonel, USA (Ret.), and Dr. Marva Dixon. ###
01.06.2017	Monroe, GA – In an ongoing effort to provide excellent constituent services, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host Mobile Office Hours with three opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with his staff in January. Mobile Office Hours provides residents who are unable to visit the Congressman’s office because of time or location restrictions the opportunity to meet with a knowledgeable member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “While I'm hard at work in Washington, D.C., I have a dedicated full-time team in the 10th Congressional District who stand willing and ready to help," said Congressman Hice. “If you have questions regarding Social Security benefits, Medicare, immigration, veterans’ benefits, the IRS, and other federal programs, I hope you will take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours. This month, my staff will join the AMVETS Post 12 at the Golden Corral in Winder and set up shop at the Tennille Community Health Center and the Family Connection and Communities in Schools of Glascock County in Gibson.” A constituent service representative will be at each of the following locations: Barrow County, GA Thursday, January 12 7:00 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. Golden Corral 163 E. May Street Winder, GA 30680 Washington County, GA Wednesday, January 18 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Tennille Community Health Center 116 Smith Street Tennille, GA 31089 Glascock County, GA (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Monday, January 23 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Family Connections and Communities in Schools of Glascock County 370 W. Main Street Gibson, GA 30810 For more information, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Res. 11, a resolution objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 as an obstacle to the Israeli-Palestinian peace process: “Down to the bitter end, the Obama Administration continues to undermine and threaten our relationship with Israel, our strongest ally in the Middle East. Ambassador Power’s abstention vote in December might as well have been a vote in favor of this anti-Israel resolution. Therefore, I voted today to strongly condemn U.N. Security Council resolution 2334 and the Obama Administration’s inaction. I will always stand with Israel, and I look forward to working with a unified government this year to strengthen our partnership.” ##
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 26, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2017. Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), an original co-sponsor of the legislation, released the following statement after its passage: “The rapid build-up of burdensome federal regulations has not only severely slowed the growth of our economy but has also stifled employment opportunities. To address this, the House, with my support, swiftly passed the REINS Act which will curb the power of unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats. It will also restore constitutional balance by requiring Congressional approval and the President’s signature before any new regulation with more than $100 million in economic impact can go into effect. Our action exemplifies our dedication to provide the American people with real, conservative solutions, and I applaud my colleague and fellow Georgian, Congressman Doug Collins, for introducing this important bill. With the passage of H.R. 26, it’s clear that Washington cannot continue to fund reckless regulations on the backs of hardworking Americans.” ##
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act, by a vote of 360 - 61. This critical legislation invests in our Nation’s harbors, dams, locks, and other water resources infrastructure. The measure includes the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, which passed the House in September, as well as provisions to diminish maintenance barriers and improve water delivery to drought-stricken communities. In addition, S. 612 contains language preventing the federal government from inserting itself into state and local issues. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the passage of the bill: “Protecting our Nation’s waterways is key to advancing commerce and maintaining a robust economy. The WIIN Act includes substantial reforms that prepare our Nation to compete in the global marketplace, strengthen protections for coastal and inland communities from disastrous floodwaters, and create mechanisms to provide affordable, clean, and safe drinking water. This legislation also contains provisions important to Georgia in our ongoing legal battles with Alabama and Florida over water allocation. Furthermore, through the WIIN Act, key missions of the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers will help rebuild and strengthen existing but inadequate water structures. America’s natural resources are some of the most magnificent in the world, and it’s our duty to safeguard their future. I’m proud to support the passage of this bill to ensure that our assets continue to serve our Nation for years to come.” ##
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, with the support of Congressman Hice. This legislation authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and includes important national security policies. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the passage of the bill: “In recent years, America’s national security capabilities have been hampered and hollowed out by the unwillingness of the President to properly address the threats facing our Nation. Today’s passage of the FY’17 NDAA takes significant steps toward rebuilding our military by restoring vital funding, modernizing equipment, increasing the end strength of our Armed Forces, and providing our warfighters with a full pay raise. It also maintains strict prohibitions on transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to American soil and prevents a new round of base realignment and closure. I’m pleased that the FY’17 NDAA elevates U.S. Cyber Command to a full combatant command and authorizes vital funding to Fort Gordon’s cyber protection team ops facility, company operations facility, and medical clinic replacement. Our Nation is facing an increasingly diverse number of threats, and it is critically important that our military readiness is up to par to defend our interests at home and abroad. I’m proud to vote in favor of legislation that improves our military’s strength.” ##
11.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5047, the Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act, a bill sponsored by Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) by a vote of 411 – 3. This legislation will empower student-veterans seeking to advance their education and will provide them with guidance from institutions of higher learning if they choose to transfer from one college or university to another. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the passage of the bill: “Our warfighters are our Nation’s most valuable assets, and this should remain the case when they step back into civilian life. Unfortunately, simply due to a lack of information and counseling, many of our heroes struggle with educational opportunities when they return home. By providing our student-veterans with the right resources, H.R. 5047 will help them acquire the education and training needed to begin a new career after leaving the military. With the passage of the Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act, we are working to address the flaws in the system to ensure that our veterans have the information they need to make the best decision possible for themselves and their families.” ##
11.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act, by a vote of 392 – 26. This legislation is a comprehensive healthcare package that will expedite the discovery, development, and delivery of medical treatments and cures. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this bill is entirely offset and paid for. Additionally, it does not change or raise the budgetary caps in current law. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the passage of the bill: “Nearly all of us have been affected by or know someone dealing with a debilitating disease like cancer, Alzheimer’s, or Cystic Fibrosis. The 21st Century Cures Act will invest in cutting-edge medical and technological breakthroughs to help deliver better, more personalized care for patients and their families. Simply put, harnessing scientific collaboration will improve the way we fight diseases and increase access to quality treatments. Furthermore, this initiative removes regulatory barriers that have continually thwarted medical researchers, providers, and innovators. It also works to combat the scourge of opioid abuse and improves our Nation’s mental health system. Advancing our healthcare innovation infrastructure is vital to future generations, and I am proud to vote in favor of legislation that will better the lives of Georgians and Americans across the country.” ##
11.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the announcement that President-elect Donald Trump will nominate Congressman Tom Price, M.D. (GA-06) to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS): “Obamacare has been a complete and utter disaster since day one. As a leading voice in the House to repeal and replace this deeply flawed law, along with his broad healthcare and budget experience, Congressman Price is the right choice to reverse Obamacare’s failures. As a fellow Georgian and having served alongside Congressman Price, I am confident that he will lead the way in the Trump Administration to implement real, patient-centered healthcare solutions as Secretary of HHS. I look forward to working closely with him to bring our Nation’s healthcare system into the 21st century.” ##
11.10.2016	Monroe, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) released the following statement after he presented two local veterans with military medals on Tuesday, November 8th: “Our nation is blessed to have courageous warriors, like Frederick Adams and Wallace Reed, who served to protect our beliefs, our values, and our democracy. These patriots valiantly and bravely defended us from tyranny. They protected America’s freedoms, defended the weak, and upheld the highest sense of selfless honor. On behalf of the residents of the 10th Congressional District and this great nation, I am honored to express my heartfelt appreciation to these two deserving veterans and all of our nation's heroes for their service and sacrifice.” The family of Mr. Wallace Reed joined him at their family-owned business, Odds & Ends, in Bishop, Georgia as Congressman Hice presented him with the following medals for his service in World War II, the Vietnam War, and postwar Korea: The Bronze Star, Meritorious Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Good Conduct Medal, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, Philippine Liberation Ribbon, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon, Expert Badge and Rifle Bar, and Korea Defense Service Medal. Mr. Reed was born on February 26, 1925 and served in the U.S. Navy and U.S. Army. He is a resident of Athens and has two children, five grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren. With his wife, Barbara, by his side, Mr. Frederick Adams, of Bogart, met with Congressman Hice at the Congressional district office in downtown Monroe. Congressman Hice presented the Navy veteran with the following awards for his service in the Vietnam War: The Army Commendation Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, and the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon. ###
10.31.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced Mobile Office Hours for the month of November. Mobile Office Hours are opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with a member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “It’s my pleasure to host Mobile Office Hours where I bring the services of my office to communities throughout the 10th Congressional District,” said Congressman Hice. “In November, I look forward to sending members of my constituent service team to the Columbia County Farm Bureau, the American Legion Post 32 in Covington, and the Morris-Little American Legion Post 6 in Milledgeville. My staff there will be able to help veterans receive their well-deserved benefits, taxpayers resolve issues with the IRS, and seniors collect their Medicare payments – to name a few examples. Whatever federal assistance you may need, my office stands ready to help.” Congressman Hice will have one of his staff members at each of the following locations: Columbia County, GA Wednesday, November 9 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Columbia County Farm Bureau 330 W Milledgeville Road Harlem, GA 30814 Newton County, GA Thursday, November 10 7:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. American Legion Post 32 3132 Legion Drive Covington, GA 30014 Baldwin County, GA (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Monday, November 21 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Morris-Little American Legion Post 6 231 Log Cabin Road NE Milledgeville, GA 31061 To reach his constituent services team, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
10.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) released the following statement in response to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) decision to resume its investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for criminal wrongdoing regarding her private email server: “The investigation of Hillary Clinton is more significant than simply locating emails. It’s about ensuring that the integrity of our national security has not been severely undermined by the careless behavior exhibited by Secretary Clinton. Today’s decision to reopen the investigation is an important step towards restoring the American people's trust in their government. Simply put, no one is above the law, no matter what their position or connections are. With the discovery of these new emails, I hope Director Comey and the FBI are diligently and thoroughly vetting Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of our Nation’s most sensitive and classified information. Secretary Clinton has demonstrated time and again that she put our national security at risk by operating a private email server, and I look forward to working with Chairman Chaffetz and my colleagues in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to hold her accountable for her reckless behavior.” ##
10.17.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced Mobile Office Hours for the month of October. Mobile Office Hours are opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with a member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “In addition to my three offices in Georgia, I regularly host Mobile Office Hours where I bring the services of my office to your community,” said Congressman Hice. “In October, I look forward to sending members of my constituent service team to the Warren County Chamber of Commerce, Morgan County’s VFW Post #2557 monthly meeting at Yesterday’s Café in downtown Rutledge, and the Greene County Government Campus. My staff there will be able to help veterans receive their well-deserved benefits, taxpayers resolve issues with the IRS, and seniors collect their Medicare payments –to name a few examples. Whatever federal assistance you may need, my office stands ready to help.” Congressman Hice will have one of his staff members at each of the following locations: Warren County, GA Wednesday, October 26 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Warren County Chamber of Commerce 46 South Norwood Street Warrenton, GA 30828 Morgan County, GA Thursday, October 27 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Yesterday’s Cafe 120 Fairplay Street Rutledge, GA 30663 Greene County, GA Friday, October 28th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Greene County Government Campus Upper Floor Conference Room 1034 Silver Drive, Suite 201 Greensboro, GA 30642 To reach his constituent services team, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
09.28.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016, by a vote of 399-25. The bill authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) water infrastructure projects for navigable waters, harbors, ports, inland waterways, and flood control. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the passage of the bill on the House Floor: “In recent years we’ve seen Washington’s influence grow larger, and all too often, we have seen the federal government insert itself into state and local issues. The Water Resources Development Act bucks this trend and stands up for Georgia by striking a biased provision in federal law that could be used against our state during its ongoing legal dispute with Alabama and Florida. While these cases make their way through the judicial system, it is imperative that we remain committed to establishing a long term agreement with our neighbors that will ensure Georgia retains an adequate and reliable allocation of water to meet its needs for the next generation. Furthermore, this legislation will strengthen our Nation’s infrastructure, restore vital ecosystems, and maintain navigation routes for commerce and the movement of goods to keep us competitive in the global marketplace. As a representative from a state that is home to two of our Nation’s most important ports, I absolutely understand the impact of these strategic investments, and I’m pleased to vote in support of them.” ##
09.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5687, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) Mandates Revision Act of 2016. This bill, sponsored by Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), reduces monetary waste by terminating or modifying compulsory reports deemed extraneous by the agency. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the legislation passed the House Floor: “Restoring government efficiency starts by removing wasteful practices. H.R. 5687, the GAO Mandates Revision Act of 2016, takes one more step towards accomplishing that goal by eliminating outdated and costly reports that are no longer necessary. Furthermore, the elimination of these reports will allow the GAO to set the right framework to conduct rigorous oversight and could save upwards of $1 million over the next five years, ensuring that federal funds are spent effectively on behalf of the American people. H.R. 5687 will help bring greater accountability and transparency to our government, and I applaud today’s passage of my bill.” ##
09.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) voted in favor of H.R. 5351 to prohibit the transfer or release of any individual detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States or a foreign country until the end of the year or enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. Congressman Hice, a cosponsor of this bill, released the following statement after the bill’s passage: “The simple truth is that these detainees – the most hardened and highly trained terrorists – were placed in Guantanamo Bay for a reason. Since he took office, President Obama has aggressively pursued the closure of Guantanamo Bay, and it has become increasingly clear that attempting to fulfill his flawed campaign promise has come at the expense of good policymaking and our national security. Today, the people’s House took the next step towards blocking the President from rushing through transfers of GTMO detainees to American soil or other countries. This measure is especially important given the fact that nearly 30% of former Guantanamo Bay prisoners have returned to the battlefield, including two who were released this year. For the sake of our Nation’s safety, it is absolutely crucial that we oppose the Obama Administration’s short-sighted and unsafe agenda. Simply put, jeopardizing American lives for the sole purpose of securing the President’s legacy is shameful.” ##
09.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, questioned Justin Cooper, a former aide to President Clinton who set up the initial private server at former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s home. During the hearing, Paul Combetta and Bill Thornton, Platte River Networks employees who worked as Clinton's IT aides and who used BleachBit to delete thousands of her records and emails after a congressional subpoena was issued, pleaded the Fifth. Bryan Pagliano, a former State Department computer specialist tasked with setting up Clinton's new server, defied a congressional subpoena and failed to appear before the committee. Click here to view the video or click on the image below. Transcript Congressman Hice: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to begin by saying what I think is the feeling of many in this committee today– just how shameful it is that so many of our witnesses are no longer here. And frankly, the appearance is that they could care less about our national security and are less concerned about defending our country than they are in either being absent or pleading the Fifth. As it was brought up earlier, they’re willing to meet with and talk with others, those who had the potential of prosecuting them. Who knows what possible deals have been made in some of those discussions? They refuse to meet with us, and it begs the question “What in the world are they hiding?” So I want to thank you, Mr. Cooper, for your courage and your willingness to be here with us today and to provide some answers. It means a great deal to us. Did Secretary Clinton at any time have more than one device? Mr. Cooper: I don’t recall specifically her having more than one email device, though I have come to learn that at some point, she had some iPad devices that she may have used simultaneously with the Blackberrys. Congressman Hice: So there’s a possibility she had more than one device at a time? Mr. Cooper: It’s possible. Congressman Hice: You have referred to yourself many times as not being an IT expert. At any time, did you consult cybersecurity experts when you were setting up her initial server? Mr. Cooper: For the initial server, we consulted with Apple and their business solutions program to set up that server. And of course, later, we consulted with Mr. Pagliano for those purposes. Congressman Hice: Okay, and so did you consult any department or agency in the government at all? Mr. Cooper: No, no consultations at that time. Congressman Hice: When you referred earlier to some of the hacks that were taking place with some degree of regularity, did you report those hacks or potential hacks to the FBI, Secret Service, or any other agency? Mr. Cooper: As I mentioned earlier, when we first experienced some of the repeated failed login attempts, I reported them to the Secret Service. Congressman Hice: Do you know if anything was done when it was reported? Did they come to investigate or search anything out? Mr. Cooper: The Secret Service reviewed some of the logs from the server and made some recommendations to Mr. Pagliano about the possible origins of those failed logins and some techniques he might use to mitigate that problem. Congressman Hice: Did any of the agencies or other cybersecurity experts express any concern over this being a private server or use of private emails? Mr. Cooper: Not directly to me. Congressman Hice: So even when they came and did some investigation and some research, that question was never brought up to you. Mr. Cooper: Correct. Congressman Hice: How does BleachBit work? Are you familiar with that? Mr. Cooper: I’m not familiar with it. Congressman Hice: Well, it seems to me, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Cooper, and everyone in this room and everyone in the country, for that matter, that we know the potential dangers of information getting in the hands of our adversaries. And you’ve related that that possibility exists dramatically. In fact, Director Comey was right when he said– and I thought he was being very polite when he said– that this is extremely careless what has taken place. And unfortunately, Mr. Cooper, you’re right in the middle of that. As the Chairman brought up a while ago, we have nations coming after us, and here you are standing up as a defense to try to keep security from being leaked out to professionals and countries, and the words of Director Comey have to be directed to you as well. This has been extremely careless, what has taken place. Your handling of the IT infrastructure, even in the midst of admittedly not being an expert in this field, to me shows absolute disregard for our national security. Mr. Chairman, I’m grateful for your continued commitment to pursue and try to get to this, and those who refuse to answer our questions and plead the Fifth to protect their own hide– as opposed to protecting our national security– again, is shameful. But I thank you for pursuing this Mr. Chairman, and I yield back. ##
09.12.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced Mobile Office Hours for the month of September. Mobile Office Hours are opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with a member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “In addition to my three offices in Georgia, I regularly host Mobile Office Hours where I bring the services of my office to your community,” said Congressman Hice. “In September, I look forward to sending members of my constituent service team to the Taliaferro County Farm Bureau, Athens Community Council on Aging, and Johnson County Chamber of Commerce. My staff there will be able to help veterans receive their well-deserved benefits, taxpayers resolve issues with the IRS, and seniors collect their Medicare payments –to name a few examples. Whatever federal assistance you may need, my office stands ready to help.” Congressman Hice will have one of his staff members at each of the following locations: Taliaferro County, GA Monday, September 19 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Taliaferro County Farm Bureau 109 Alexander St NW Crawfordville, GA 30631 Clarke County, GA Wednesday, September 21 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Athens Community Council on Aging 135 Hoyt Street Athens, GA 30601 Johnson County, GA Friday, September 23 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Johnson County Chamber of Commerce 8679 N Marcus St. Wrightsville, GA 31096 To reach his constituent services team, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
09.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) congratulated 10th District teacher Steven King from Whit Davis Elementary in Athens, Georgia for receiving the prestigious Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching (PAEMST). The PAEMST is awarded annually to outstanding K-12 science and mathematics teachers from across the country. Winners are selected by a panel of distinguished scientists, mathematicians, and educators following an initial selection process completed at the state level. Congressman Hice released the following statement after meeting with Mr. King and his family: “A commitment to education –particularly STEM education – is crucial for retaining our Nation's innovative spirit, and it's an honor to see that the efforts of Mr. King to guide and prepare future generations of students here in Georgia’s 10th Congressional District are being recognized at the national level,” said Congressman Hice. “Steven has been inspiring young people through his science teaching for over 27 years, and I am pleased to see that his time, dedication, and passions are being rewarded with this prestigious merit.” L-R: Steven King and Congressman Hice ##
08.16.2016	Monroe, GA – On Tuesday, August 23, 2016, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Catch-up With Your Congressman” event at the Butts County Administration Building in Jackson, GA. Residents from Butts County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the office between 5:00 PM and 6:00 PM to enjoy candid conversation and light refreshments with Congressman Hice. “The best ideas for addressing our Nation’s problems don’t come from Washington, they come from the folks here at home,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why I enjoy meeting and speaking with the residents of the Tenth Congressional District on a regular basis. Tuesday’s catch-up is a valuable opportunity for me to listen to your ideas, answer your questions, and learn about the issues that matter the most to you and your family.” What: Butts County Catch-Up With Your Congressman Who: Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: Tuesday, August 23rd from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Where: Butts County Administration Building 625 W. 3rd Street Jackson, GA 30233 Congressman Hice is pleased to present this free, public event. For more information about “Catch-up With Your Congressman,” residents may call the Monroe office at (770) 207-1776. ###
08.08.2016	Milledgeville, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host his annual Service Academy Day on Saturday, September 3rd on the campus of Georgia Military College. The event is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for the Nation’s five military service academies. Students in grades eight through twelve are invited to attend. The event will take place from 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. in the Goldstein Center for the Performing Arts Auditorium, where representatives from the United States Air Force, Naval, Military, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marine academies will discuss their requirements for admittance. “Our Nation’s service academies have a long tradition of developing tomorrow’s leaders,” said Congressman Hice. “They provide top-tier undergraduate education that trains their cadets or midshipmen to become commissioned officers for the United States Armed Forces. Attending a service academy is a priceless opportunity, and I encourage students to come and learn about this competitive process so that they may prepare to meet, and exceed, the academies’ requirements.” All students admitted to our Nation’s military service academies must first receive a nomination from at least one member of their state's Congressional Delegation, the Vice President, or the President of the United States. Students, who are seeking Congressman Hice’s nomination, should submit a completed application to the Monroe office by October 10, 2016. To access the application and learn more about the academy nomination process, visit his website at https://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/serviceacademynominations.htm or contact Jessica Hayes at Jessica.hayes@mail.house.gov or (706) 564-1286. What: GA-10 Service Academy Day Who: America’s Service Academies & Students in Grades Eight through Twelve When: Saturday, September 3, 2016 from 3:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Where: Georgia Military College Goldstein Center for the Performing Arts Auditorium 325 S. Elbert Street Milledgeville, GA 31061 ###
08.01.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host his annual Grants and Small Business Workshop on Tuesday, August 16th at the Oconee County Civic Center. The workshop is an opportunity for individuals to network with state and federal representatives and receive valuable information for their business or project. “Whether you’re a small business owner or representative for a nonprofit or municipality, this free workshop is designed to provide you with tips and tools to help you succeed,” said Congressman Hice. “Join us to learn how to grow your small business, apply for community development block grants, and do business with the federal government. Plus, interact with representatives from nonprofits and local, state, and federal agencies to learn more about their programs.” What: Grants & Small Business Workshop When: Tuesday, August 16, 2016 from 10:00 AM to 12:30 PM Where: Oconee County Civic Center 2661 Hog Mountain Road Watkinsville, GA 30677 The following agencies will be at the event to provide information: The Georgia Chamber of Commerce, Georgia Department of Natural Resources Historic Preservation Division, Georgia Department of Community Affairs, Georgia Tech Procurement Assistance Center, The Foundation Center, Oconee County Economic Development Department, UGA Small Business Development Center, USDA Rural Development, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and more. This event is free and open to the public; no registration is required. For more information, please call 770-207-1776 or email Nick.Derajtys@mail.house.gov. ###
07.27.2016	Monroe, GA – On Wednesday, August 3, 2016, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” event at the Winder Community Center. Residents from Barrow County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the center between 8:30 AM and 9:30 AM to enjoy candid conversation and a cup of coffee with Congressman Hice. “Wednesday’s coffee is a great opportunity for me to answer your questions, listen to your ideas, and learn about the issues that matter to you,” said Congressman Hice. “If you are in the area, I hope you will stop by because you deserve a government that works for you, listens to you, and values your opinion.” What: Barrow County “Coffee with Your Congressman” Who: Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: Wednesday, August 3, 2016 from 8:30 AM to 9:30 AM Where: Winder Community Center 113 East Athens Street Winder, GA 30680 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Monroe office at (770) 207-1776. ###
07.26.2016	Monroe, GA – On Friday, August 5, 2016, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at The Coffee Shop in downtown Wrightsville. Residents from Johnson County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the café between 7:30 AM and 8:30 AM to enjoy candid conversation over a cup of coffee with Congressman Hice. “Friday’s coffee is a great opportunity for me to answer your questions, listen to your ideas, and learn about the issues that matter to you,” said Congressman Hice. “If you are in the area, I hope you will stop by because you deserve a government that works for you, listens to you, and values your opinion.” What: Johnson County “Coffee with Your Congressman” Who: Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: Friday, August 5, 2016 from 7:30 AM to 8:30 AM Where: The Coffee Shop 8651 S. Marcus Street Wrightsville, GA 31096 Congressman Hice is scheduled to provide a brief legislative update on current events and how they may impact the 10th Congressional District. He will also field questions from those in attendance as time permits. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Milledgeville office at (478) 457-0007. ###
07.25.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced Mobile Office Hours for the month of August. Mobile Office Hours are opportunities for 10th District residents to meet with a member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “In addition to my three offices in Georgia, I regularly host Mobile Office Hours where I bring the services of my office to your community,” said Congressman Hice. “In August, I look forward to sending members of my constituent service team to the Loganville American Legion, the Pope Center to participate in the Washington-Wilkes Chamber Marketplace, and the Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce. My staff there will be able to help veterans receive their well-deserved benefits, taxpayers resolve issues with the IRS, and seniors collect their Medicare payments – to name a few examples. Whatever federal assistance you may need, my office stands ready to help.” Congressman Hice will have one of his staff members at each of the following locations: Walton County, GA Tuesday, August 2 6:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m American Legion Post 233 4635 Atlanta Highway Loganville, GA 30052 Wilkes County, GA (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, August 10 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Washington-Wilkes Chamber Member Marketplace Edward B. Pope Center, Ballroom 48B Lexington Avenue Washington, GA Putnam County, GA (Sens. Johnny Isakson & David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Monday, August 15 9:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Eatonton-Putnam Chamber of Commerce, Board Room 305 N Madison Avenue Eatonton, GA 31024 To reach his constituent services team, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
07.13.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) recently introduced H.R. 5687, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) Mandates Revision Act of 2016, which reduces monetary waste by eliminating the requirement to produce antiquated reports that have been deemed unnecessary by the agency. This will save taxpayer dollars and allow these funds to be redirected to other priorities, such as improving healthcare for our Nation’s veterans. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the legislation passed the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee: “Good governance requires responsible spending. In Fiscal Year 2015 alone, the work of GAO netted a return on investment of $134 for every $1 spent by the agency. That is the type of work our Nation needs, identifying inefficiencies and restoring fiscal responsibility through conducting oversight and safeguarding taxpayer dollars. For the 114th Congress, the agency has identified eight compulsory reports that are no longer needed and that require resources that could be better used elsewhere. H.R. 5687, the GAO Mandates Revision Act, will ensure the GAO is better able to focus resources on higher priority areas, making the government more efficient for the American taxpayer. As we seek greater accountability within our federal government, I applaud the bipartisan work that went into this legislation and look forward to its passage on the House Floor.” ##
07.11.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host Mobile Office Hours at the Lincoln County Library on Wednesday, July 20th. This event is a valuable opportunity for 10th District residents to meet with a member of his staff to discuss their concerns, share their priorities, or seek help with a federal agency. “While I’m working for you in Washington, D.C., I am proud to say that I have a full-time team of dedicated staff who deliver the best constituent services possible,” said Congressman Hice. “If you need help with any federal agency, please stop by the Lincoln County Library from 10 am until noon on Wednesday, July 20th and my Constituent Service Director will be glad to assist you. Although we can’t guarantee the outcome, we can promise that we’ll do our very best to cut through the red tape and help you resolve your problem.” Lincoln County Mobile Office Hours (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, July 20 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Lincoln County Library 181 North Peachtree Street Lincolnton, GA 30817 Congressman Hice has offices in Monroe and Milledgeville that are open Monday through Friday and a satellite office in Thomson that is open each Thursday. To reach a member of his constituent services team, residents may call (770) 207-1776 or (478) 457-0007. ###
07.07.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, questioned FBI Director James Comey after his recommendation to not prosecute Hillary Clinton for the mishandling of classified information and storing documents on an unsecured home server. Click here to view the video or click on the image below. Transcript: Congressman Hice: Director Comey, your statement on Tuesday clearly showed that Secretary Clinton not only was extremely careless in handling classified information, but that also any reasonable person should have known better and that also in doing so, she put our national security at risk with her reckless behavior. So it seems to me that the American people are only left based on your assessment with just a few options; either Secretary Clinton is NOT a reasonable person or she is someone who purposely, willfully exhibited disregard for the law or she is someone sees herself as someone who is above the law, and to muddy the water even further after listening to you lay out the facts of the investigation. Much of what you said directly contradicted her in previous statements that she had made. I think it’s all this compiled, connecting the dots that so many American people are irate and that after all of this there was not a recommendation for Secretary Clinton to be prosecuted. Now, I do greatly appreciate the fact that you came out with much more information on this than you would have in other cases. And I think that was the right thing to do. Undeniably, this is not a typical case. This is something of great public interest. Obviously the subject of this investigation, former Secretary of State, former Senator, and all those things that we talked about, former First Lady and so forth, and in addition to this, her husband, who happens to be a former President of the United States, is meeting privately with the Attorney General, right before the interview takes place. Obviously, this is very suspicious. Just the optics of it all. And at the same time that you are coming out, or more or less the same time that you are announcing the decision. Secretary Clinton is flying around in Air Force One with the President, doing a campaign event. I mean there is nothing about this case that is ordinary. There’s nothing about the subject that is ordinary. So let me ask you this Director, did Secretary Clinton, in fact, comply with the Department’s policies or the Federal Records Act? FBI Director Comey: I don’t think so. I know you have the State Inspector General here as more of an expert on all the Department’s policies, but at least in some respects, no. Congressman Hice: So keeping the servers at home and all these types of things, obviously, is not in compliance with Department’s policy. FBI Director Comey: Yes, and I’ve read the Inspectors report on that, that’s part of the reason I can answer that part with some confidence. Congressman Hice: Okay, and yet she said publicly that she fully complied. So there again is another issue. If you had the same set of facts, but a different subject, a different individual involved, let’s say just an average, ordinary state department employee, or an anonymous contractor; what would have been the outcome? FBI Director Comey: I’m highly confident there would be no criminal prosecution no matter who it was. There would be some range of discipline. They might get fired. They might lose their clearance. They might get suspended for 30 days. There would be some discipline, maybe just a reprimand. I doubt it. I think it would be higher on the discipline spectrum, but some sort of discipline. Congressman Hice: So is it your opinion, that there should likewise be some discipline in this case? FBI Director Comey: Yeah, that’s not for me to say. I can talk about what would have happened if it were a government employee under my responsibility. Congressman Hice: Well, then what you’re laying out is that there is a double standard for someone else, a different subject, an anonymous contractor, or someone at the State Department, there would absolutely be discipline. But because of who the subject is, you’re not willing to say if there should be discipline. So there’s, again, this whole issue. This is what the American People are so upset about. Let me say that when you stated that no reasonable prosecutor would pursue this case, is that because the subject of this investigation was unique? FBI Director Comey: No. There’s no double standard there, and there’s no double standard either in the sense that if it was John Doe, former government employee, you would be in the same boat. We wouldn’t have any reach on the guy. He wouldn’t be prosecuted. Congressman Hice: But he would have some discipline? FBI Director Comey: Well, not if he had left government service. Congressman Hice: Had they lied about having servers, had they lied about sending and receiving classified emails, had they lied about not deleting those emails to the public, had they lied about not having any marked classified; the statements are clearly documented, and you’re saying that an average person would experience discipline by your own words, but Secretary Clinton does not deserve to be disciplined? Congressman Hice: An average employee still in government service would be subject to a disciplinary process. Now, if they had left, you would be in the same boat. ##
07.06.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued the following statement regarding the FBI's investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: “Yesterday’s announcement by FBI Director James Comey to not recommend the prosecution of Hillary Clinton – despite evidence of security violations – is a travesty to our judicial system. When the director himself says that Hillary Clinton’s behavior was “extremely careless,” and the report that the FBI compiled states she compromised our national security in using her own private email server, there must be consequences. This is just the latest example of preferential treatment being given to the political elite and the latest example of the Clintons escaping responsibility. No one is above the law, and no one should be exempt from criminal prosecution based on their connections or position. Time and again, Hillary Clinton has lied to the American public, and time and again, it has been swept under the rug. The Clinton political machine does not and should not make her immune to the rule of law. Failure to hold her accountable will further erode the public’s trust in our legal system and will erase the notion that those in power should be held to a higher standard. I applaud Speaker Ryan and Chairman Chaffetz for calling on Director Comey to testify before the Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Thursday, and I look forward to hearing from him directly on this matter.” ##
07.05.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3844, the Bureau of Land Management Foundation Act, by voice vote. This bill, sponsored by Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), is part of a three-bill legislative package aimed to address shortfalls with the clean-up of abandoned mines. Congressman Hice released the following statement following the passage of the bill on the House Floor: “Last August, Colorado and other western states withstood one of the worst mining-related disasters in decades when millions of gallons of toxic waste gushed into the Animas River from the Gold King mine. To make matters even worse, the spill was triggered by the same federal agency that is put in place to prevent such tragedies – the Environmental Protection Agency. It is clear that the agency lacks the competence, resources, and overall expertise needed to remedy these dire situations. By incorporating private sector policies and procedures, H.R. 3844, the Bureau of Land Management Foundation Act, revamps and improves the clean-up of contaminated water in abandoned mine sites. I applaud the bipartisan work of my Resources Committee colleagues, and I look forward to implementing comprehensive spill prevention methods with the passage of this legislation.” ##
06.29.2016	Sandersville, GA—On Monday, June 27, 2016, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) participated in a legislative agriculture tour hosted by the Washington County Farm Bureau. The tour included visits to a local family-owned farm, grain facility, farm supply business, and pecan company. During the tour, farmers and business owners provided their perspective on issues affecting the agricultural industry, such as the Farm Bill, tariffs, and immigration. Additionally, Congressman Hice shared a legislative update, touching on his work with the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to investigate bad actors within federal agencies. “I cannot tell you what an honor it is to represent Washington County in Washington D.C.,” Congressman Hice said during lunch hosted at the Washington County Farm Bureau. “I want to let you know that we are in this together.” L-R: Trevor Cobb, Congressman Hice, Robert Fountain (Georgia Farm Bureau First Vice President), Kevin Cobb, Gerald Long (Georgia Farm Bureau President & CEO), and Amber Veal (Washington County Farm Bureau Legislative Co-Chair) touring the Cobb Family Farm ##
06.28.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Hice (R-GA) released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court issued a decision in Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt, which struck down two Texas state statutes requiring abortion clinics to meet health and safety standards essential to protecting women's health: “Yesterday’s Supreme Court ruling was a regrettable step backwards in the fight to protect the well-being of mothers and their unborn across our Nation. Ensuring women’s safety by requiring the same minimum standards as other outpatient surgical centers is not an undue burden; it is commonsense. Simply put, abortion clinics should not be given a free pass to circumvent medical requirements, and facilities that do not meet basic health and safety standards are not facilities that anyone should want to remain open. While I am deeply disappointed in this decision, I am committed as ever to the protection of women's health and the lives of the unborn. This ruling strengthens our resolve to defend the most helpless and innocent among us.” ## In February, Congressman Hice, along with 174 Members of Congress, signed an amicus brief supporting the state of Texas in the case.
06.23.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 4-4 split decision in the United States v. Texas case: “Time after time, the President has ignored the separation of powers and the role of Congress to legislate. Today’s decision by the Supreme Court was a victory and a reminder that the President and his Administration cannot unilaterally rewrite our Nation’s immigration laws. These executive actions clearly exceed his Constitutional authority, and I am proud that the State of Texas, along with 25 other states, including Georgia, initiated a lawsuit challenging this overreach. The Court’s action sent a clear message that the President is not above the law or our Constitution. I applaud this ruling, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to stop this President’s reckless executive fiats.” ##
06.23.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Hice welcomed Barrow County resident Bianca Robinson, the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Georgia’s Tenth Congressional District, to Washington. A senior at Mill Creek High School, Bianca Robinson bested 52 submissions and will have her artwork displayed in U.S. Capitol for one year. The winning piece, titled “Reflection,” was made from charcoal. Congressman Hice released the following statement after her visit: “The Tenth Congressional District is filled with creative minds that showcase their artistic talents every year in the Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Hice. “It was a pleasure having Bianca and her family in Washington for the reception honoring the outstanding artistic abilities of this year’s winners. We are very proud of her work and look forward to seeing it in the Capitol for the next year.” First Place winner Bianca Robinson with her artwork, “Reflection” in the Capitol
06.20.2016	Monroe, GA – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at The Country Buffet in downtown Sandersville. Residents from Washington County and the surrounding area are invited to stop by the restaurant between 8:00 AM and 9:00 AM to enjoy candid conversation and a free cup of coffee with Congressman Hice. “Given the choice to be in Washington, D.C. or Washington County, I’d choose Washington County every time,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s because I enjoy meeting with the residents of the Tenth Congressional District as I believe it’s one of the most important parts of my job. Monday’s coffee is a great opportunity for me to answer your questions, listen to your ideas, and learn about the issues that matter to you most.” What: Washington County “Coffee with Your Congressman” Who: Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: Monday, June 27, 2016 from 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM Where: The Country Buffet 117 W. Haynes Street Sandersville, GA 31082 Congressman Hice is pleased to present this free, public event. For more information about “Coffee with Your Congressman,” residents may call the Milledgeville office at (478) 457-0007. ###
06.16.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives, with the support of Congressman Hice, passed H.R. 5293, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017, which provides responsible funding for the Department of Defense. The measure passed by a vote of 282 - 138. Congressman Hice released the following statement following the bill’s passage: “The current administration has weakened our military as we continue to face threats from radical Islamic terrorists. It is imperative that we not only rebuild our armed forces, but that our Nation’s warfighters are ready to protect our homeland at a moment’s notice. With the passage of H.R. 5293, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017, we ensure that our troops are prepared for these challenges. The FY’17 Defense Appropriations Act provides the men and women who risk all a much-deserved pay raise, makes strategic investments in weapons systems and equipment, including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighters and the JSTARS, redoubles our efforts to target and eliminate terrorism at its source, and rejects the President’s request to further reduce military personnel. Furthermore, I’m pleased that this bill funds research on diseases and PTSD treatment options which will improve the quality of life for our heroes after their service. In the wake of homegrown terrorist attacks in San Bernardino and now Orlando committed by radicalized individuals who have pledged themselves to ISIS, the stakes are higher than ever, and I’m pleased the House passed H.R. 5293 with the safety and security of Americans in mind.” ##
06.15.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) congratulated 10th District students Jenna Mullis and Laila Pettigrew from Putnam County Middle School in Eatonton, Georgia for placing first in the state’s National History Day competition and representing the 10th District on the national level at the annual Kenneth E. Behring National History Day Contest. Each year, students research a topic based upon an annual theme and present their findings in a documentary, exhibit, paper, performance, or website. The top entries from each state compete in a competition held every June. Congressman Hice released the following statement after meeting with the students: “These exemplary local students have distinguished themselves, their schools, and our community through their hard work and commitment to learning,” said Congressman Hice. “I am extremely proud of everything they’ve accomplished so far, and I am honored to have these young people in the 10th District of Georgia.” L-R: Jenna Mullis, Congressman Jody Hice, and Laila Pettigrew ##
06.15.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) congratulated two teams of 10th District students from Impact Academy in McDonough, Georgia this week: Emily Garrison and Kennedi Anderson and Riley Maleitzke, Makena Massie, and Haleigh Massie. These students placed first in the state’s National History Day competition and represented the 10th District on the national level at the annual Kenneth E. Behring National History Day Contest. Each year, students research a topic based upon an annual theme and present their findings in a documentary, exhibit, paper, performance, or website. The top entries from each state compete in a competition held every June. Congressman Hice released the following statement after meeting with the students: “These exemplary local students have distinguished themselves, their schools, and our community through their hard work and commitment to learning,” said Congressman Hice. “I am extremely proud of everything they’ve accomplished so far, and I am honored to have these young people in the 10th District of Georgia.” L-R: Emily Garrison, Congressman Jody Hice, and Kennedi Anderson L-R: Riley Maleitzke, Makena Massie, Congressman Jody Hice, and Haleigh Massie ##
06.15.2016	Evans, GA – On Tuesday, June 14, 2016, the Office of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) honored Columbia County resident Morgan Taylor, who recently received a prestigious appointment to the United States Naval Academy. During a meeting of the Columbia County School Board, Jessica Hayes, Deputy Chief of Staff for Congressman Hice, presented Morgan with a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition for her outstanding achievement. Morgan will receive a top tier education with tuition fully paid at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. A 2015 graduate of Greenbrier High School, Morgan is among the nation’s finest students to compete for appointment to America’s service academies. These institutions prepare college-aged Americans to be officers of the United States uniformed services. L-R: Jessica Hayes, Deputy Chief of Staff for Congressman Hice, and Morgan Taylor ##
06.15.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) congratulated 10th District student Jasmine Hughley from Evans Middle School in Evans, Georgia for placing first in the state’s National History Day competition and representing the 10th District on the national level at the annual Kenneth E. Behring National History Day Contest. Each year, students research a topic based upon an annual theme and present their findings in a documentary, exhibit, paper, performance, or website. The top entries from each state compete in a competition held every June. Congressman Hice released the following statement after meeting with the students: “These exemplary local students have distinguished themselves, their schools, and our community through their hard work and commitment to learning,” said Congressman Hice. “I am extremely proud of everything they’ve accomplished so far, and I am honored to have these young people in the 10th District of Georgia.” L-R: Jasmine Hughley and Congressman Jody Hice ##
06.14.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced H.R. 5457 to designate Gravelly Point Park along the George Washington Parkway in Arlington County, Virginia, as the Nancy Reagan Memorial Park. Gravelly Point Park is located adjacent to the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, which was renamed in honor of former President Reagan on his 87th Birthday in 1998. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the bill was introduced: “Beside every great leader, there is a great partner, and for President Reagan, that was Nancy Reagan. With her passing in March, our Nation continues to grieve the loss of one of our most beloved treasures. Like her husband, Mrs. Reagan invested in people and worked diligently to strengthen our communities and advance the American dream for our citizens. She championed veterans, especially our heroes who were returning home after wartime, and spearheaded the “Just Say No” campaign to combat the use of recreational drugs among youth. Mrs. Reagan was the embodiment of grace, elegance, and tenacity and put duty, honor, and country above all. That is why I introduced H.R. 5457 to honor her life and legacy. If enacted, this bill would designate Gravelly Point Park located along the George Washington Memorial Parkway in Arlington County, Virginia, as the Nancy Reagan Memorial Park. Gravelly Point Park is a popular place for families to picnic, bike, or simply watch planes while enjoying the DC landscape in the background. Given its proximity to the airport named for her husband, renaming Gravelly Point Park as the Nancy Reagan Memorial Park would be an apt tribute to the remarkable First Lady so revered by our Nation. Mrs. Reagan touched the heart of our country with her character, her service, her devotion to her husband, and her unyielding love for our republic. Together, the Reagans changed the course of our Nation, and the wider world, and their legacy will inspire Americans for generations.” ##
06.13.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) released the following statement after yesterday’s terrorist attack in Orlando: “Our Nation has sustained another attack at the hands of a radical Islamic terrorist. Reports state that the terrorist had sworn allegiance to ISIS. This attack is unfortunately just the latest example that these terrorist thugs will stop at nothing to import their extremist ideology and violence to our homeland. As we pray for the victims and families of this senseless and cowardly attack, we must recognize that radical Islamic terrorists are a threat to all Americans, and we must use whatever means necessary to protect our country from these savages. We need a clear strategy to annihilate these terrorists and their networks once and for all.” ##
06.13.2016	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced Mobile Office Hours for the month of June. Mobile Office Hours are opportunities for residents to meet with members of his staff at various locations throughout the Tenth Congressional District. “One of the most important things I do as a U.S. Representative is help people with federal problems,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why I have a full-time team of dedicated staff who deliver the best constituent services possible. They can advocate for veterans seeking to process their claims, seniors encountering problems with Medicare, taxpayers confronting challenges with the IRS, and many other issues. So if you need assistance or would like to voice your concern or values, my staff would love to meet with you. I encourage you to take advantage of one of the upcoming Mobile Office Hours and let us know how we can help.” One of Congressman Hice’s staff members will be at the following locations: Washington County, GA Friday, June 17 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Sandersville City Hall, Conference Room 141 W Haynes Street Sandersville, GA 31082 Central Savannah River Area (Sen. David Perdue’s staff will also be present) Wednesday, June 22 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Augusta Vet Center 2050 Walton Way #100 Augusta, GA 30904 Butts County, GA (Sen. Johnny Isakson’s staff will also be present) Monday, June 27 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. Jackson City Hall 135 S Mulberry Street Jackson, GA 30233 To reach the constituent services team, residents may call the Monroe office at 770-207-1776 or Milledgeville office at 478-457-0007. ###
06.08.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, His Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India, addressed a Joint Meeting of Congress. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) released the following statement following Prime Minister Modi’s address: “While I’m pleased that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the partnership between the United States and India, I remain disappointed that he did not address the treatment and persecution of religious minorities in the Republic of India. Today, Prime Minister Modi declared that ‘freedom of faith, speech and franchise, and equality of all citizens, regardless of background, is enshrined as fundamental rights,’ yet unfortunately, during his tenure we have witnessed police looking the other way while there has been an increase in the persecution of religious minorities. In February, I joined 33 other Members of Congress in sending a letter to Prime Minister Modi urging him to condemn the growing violence against religious minorities and to discourage villages from banning non-Hindu religious activities. In democracies, there is no place for the persecution of individuals of any faith for simply expressing their beliefs. I hope Prime Minister Modi will reaffirm his commitment to ‘anchor in equal respect for all faiths,’ and I ask him to take critical and important steps to protect religious minorities from further persecution.” ##
05.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that he will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at the Southern Scratch Bakery on Wednesday, June 1st from 12:00PM to 1:00PM in Washington, Georgia. The event will be a meet-and-greet opportunity for constituents to visit directly with Congressman Hice. The event is free and open to all 10th District constituents. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the event: “My Coffees with Your Congressman events are a great opportunity to answer your questions, listen to your ideas first-hand, and learn how to best represent the people of the 10th District of Georgia in Washington, D.C.,” said Congressman Hice. “Hearing from you and receiving feedback is a critical part of my job as your Representative, and I encourage all 10th District constituents to stop by and enjoy an iced coffee if you’re in the Washington, Georgia area.” What: Wilkes County Coffee with Your Congressman Who: Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: Wednesday, June 1st from 12:00 PM to 1:00PM Where: Southern Scratch Bakery 22 West Square Washington, GA 30673 ##
05.18.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives, with the support of Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10), passed H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. The NDAA authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and includes national security priorities, provisions, and other military-related matters. Congressman Hice released the following statement following the bill’s passage: “In the absence of leadership from the Obama Administration, it is critical that Congress acts now to restore our military readiness. I was proud to vote in favor of the FY’17 National Defense Authorization Act which addresses shortfalls that have increased risks to our national security, ensures our military keeps pace against the threats from our adversaries, and provides much-needed maintenance funding so that our brave men and women in uniform are fully prepared to guard our Nation and defend our freedoms. I’ve seen first-hand with my visits to Fort Benning, Fort Stewart, and Hunter Army Airfield that our men and women in uniform must have the vital assets to keep us safe and secure. Furthermore, I’m pleased FY’17 NDAA grants our military personnel with an increase in pay despite the President's continual disapproval, prohibits the transfer of GTMO detainees to American soil, elevates U.S. Cyber Command to a Unified Combatant Command, prevents the premature retirement of the JSTARS, properly invests in our military equipment by authorizing additional F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, and authorizes critical funding for Georgia’s military installations, including Fort Gordon. With the passage of the FY’17 NDAA, we reaffirmed our commitment to the security of the American people and provided the men and women who risk all with the proper resources on and off the battlefield.” ##
05.17.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s recent school bathroom directive to all public schools: “Our schools and communities have done just fine in determining how best to accommodate the needs of students on an individual basis without the federal government’s intervention. And that’s how these decisions should be made — locally by parents, teachers, students, and school boards — not by an overreaching executive who has no respect for the rule of law and who has done more to undermine the moral fabric of our country than any President in our history. Further, while this directive is not legally binding, no school should fear reprisal for failing to comply with the President’s ridiculous demand. It is absolutely appalling that he has threatened to withhold funding from our public schools if they don’t cave to his latest attempt to redefine our culture.” ##
05.09.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that he will host a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at Georgia Military College on Friday, May 27th from 11:45AM to 1:00PM in Milledgeville. The event will be a meet-and-greet opportunity for constituents to visit directly with Congressman Hice. The event is free and open to all 10th District constituents. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the event: “My Coffees with Your Congressman events are a great opportunity to answer your questions, listen to your ideas first-hand, and learn how to best represent the people of the 10th District of Georgia in Washington,” said Congressman Hice. “Hearing from you and receiving feedback is a critical part of my job as your Representative, and I encourage all 10th District constituents to stop by if you’re in the Milledgeville area. What: Milledgeville Coffee with Constituents Who: Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: Friday, May 27th from 11:45AM to 1:00PM Where: Georgia Military College Sibley Cone Library Library Reference Room 201 E. Greene Street Milledgeville, GA ##
05.09.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) attended the signing ceremony for Luke Udell, a senior at Social Circle High School. Mr. Udell recently accepted his appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the ceremony: “Being able to nominate talented local students to our prestigious service academies is one of the most rewarding things I have the honor of doing as a Congressman, and something I take very seriously,” said Congressman Hice. “It was my privilege to attend Luke’s signing ceremony. I’m so proud of what he’s accomplished so far, and I expect great things from him in the future as a cadet.” Congressman Hice at Social Circle High School with Luke Udell for his United States Naval Academy signing ceremony
05.05.2016	Washington D.C. – On Tuesday, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) attended the signing ceremony for Lily Swope, a senior at Walton Grove High School in Loganville. Ms. Swope recently accepted her nomination to the United States Air Force Academy. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the ceremony: “Being able to nominate talented local students to our prestigious service academies is one of the most rewarding things I have the honor of doing as a Congressman, and something I take very seriously,” said Congressman Hice. “It was my privilege to attend Lily’s signing ceremony. I’m so proud of what she’s accomplished so far, and I expect great things from her in the future as a cadet.” Congressman Hice at Walton Grove High School in Loganville with Lily Swope for her Air Force Academy signing ceremony ##
05.05.2016	Washington D.C. – On Tuesday, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) attended the signing ceremony for Chris Anderson, a senior at Woodland High School in Stockbridge. Mr. Anderson recently accepted his nomination to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the ceremony: “Being able to nominate talented local students to our prestigious service academies is one of the most rewarding things I have the honor of doing as a Congressman, and something I take very seriously,” said Congressman Hice. “It was my privilege to attend Chris Anderson’s signing ceremony. I’m so proud of what he’s accomplished so far, and I expect great things from him in the future as a cadet.” Congressman Hice at Woodland High School with Chris Anderson for his West Point signing ceremony
04.29.2016	Washington D.C. – This week, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced H.R. 5047, the Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act of 2016, so that those who have so valiantly served our country receive the counsel they need to make informed scholastic decisions. This bipartisan bill requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to include information about the educational services available to all veterans seeking to use their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits and requires VA counselors to inform veterans about the various articulation agreements between schools regarding the transfer of credits between institutions. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the bill was introduced: “For generations, our veterans have answered the call to serve our Nation while asking for very little in return. H.R. 5047, the Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act of 2016, gives Congress the opportunity to support our heroes as they determine the best way to apply their hard-earned benefits. Too often, our veterans are misled and exploited, and end up exhausting their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits at institutions that don’t have agreements in place to allow credits to transfer to other schools – or that lack accreditation altogether. With over a million student veterans currently utilizing their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits as they pursue higher education, it is our duty to ensure they have the proper information when making these decisions. My bill, H.R. 5047, will ensure this happens by requiring VA counselors to inform our veterans about the various contracts, or articulation agreements, that exist between schools that govern the transfer of credits. While this bill may seem like a small start compared to the big challenges we face in correcting the disastrous VA system, it's a pathway to fundamentally change how we treat our veterans. I’m proud to step up for the men and women who have risked so much defending our freedoms on the battlefield.” ##
04.26.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Hice announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. This year, over 52 pieces of artwork from students throughout the 10th District of Georgia were submitted in the competition. The grand prize winner was Bianca Robinson, a senior at Mill Creek High School. The winning piece, titled “Reflection,” was made from charcoal. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the announcement: “Each year, it’s a thrill to see high school artists in the 10th District showcase their talents,” Congressman Hice said. “Every student involved in this competition deserves special recognition, and I hope that they will all continue to enrich our community with their outstanding artistic abilities. I want to congratulate this year’s winners Bianca, Severen, Bethany, and Dana, and I look forward to seeing Bianca’s artwork in the Capitol. I would also like to thank our judges, who had a particularly difficult job choosing between so many exceptional submissions, and all of our student's teachers, who continue to help and encourage students throughout our community to express themselves through art. 1st Place Winner: Bianca Robinson from Mill Creek High School in Gwinnett County “Reflection” 2nd Place Winner: Severen Brown from Athens Academy in Oconee County “57 Chevy” 3rd Place Winner: Bethany Medrea from Monroe Area High School in Walton County “Broken Dreams” Honorable Mention: Dana Hickey from Morgan County High School in Morgan County “Bonnie”
04.18.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) invites 10th District residents to attend the 2016 Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony at Georgia Square Mall on Saturday, April 23, 2016 from 10:30 am to 12:00 pm. Each spring, Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sponsor a nationwide high school art competition to recognize and showcase the artistic abilities of high school students in their districts and throughout the Nation. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the event: “The Congressional Art Competition is a fantastic way to highlight the artistic talents and achievements of our Nation’s students, especially those in the 10th District of Georgia,” said Congressman Hice. “I was honored to have over 52 submissions this year, and I am always so amazed by the high caliber of artwork that our local high school students produce. I want to thank everyone that submitted their artwork and look forward to recognizing their outstanding abilities on Saturday.” The event will include an art exhibition and an awards ceremony where this year’s 1st place, 2nd place, and 3rd place winners will be announced. It will be followed by a reception with light refreshments for students, their families, and their teachers. The winning artist will be invited to a national reception in Washington D.C. where his or her artwork will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Additionally, the student will be eligible to receive a collegiate art scholarship. What: 2016 Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony & Reception Who: Congressman Jody Hice, 10th District students, and their families When: Saturday, April 23, 2016 from 10:30AM to 1:00PM Where: Georgia Square Mall First Floor, next to the Sears 700 Atlanta Hwy Athens, GA, 30606 For more information, please click here. ##
04.13.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that he will join Georgia’s U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue and other members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation for the annual Service Academy Day on Saturday, April 30th at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. Congressman Hice released the following statement encouraging students to participate in the event: “Our Nation’s service academies have a long tradition of developing tomorrow’s leaders,” said Congressman Hice. “The Service Academy Day will provide a great opportunity for students to gain more information about the admissions process and requirements for applying to one of our Nation’s uniformed service academies. I encourage all interested students to attend this event to get one-on-one advice from representatives from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy.” The Service Academy Day is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for applying to each of the military service academies. The event is free and open to all students in grades eight through twelve. Representatives from all five academies will be in attendance to discuss their requirements and expectations for admittance. The event will be held at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Marietta, GA from 10:00 am – 11:30 am. Due to the restrictions at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, all who plan to attend must register no later than April 22nd, 2016 by 5:00 pm. Those interested in attending may register online here: https://www.isakson.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/sad-registration. What: Service Academy Information Session Who: Congressman Jody Hice, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, U.S. Senator David Perdue, U.S. House of Representatives Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Tom Price (GA-06), Rob Woodall (GA-07), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), representatives from U.S. service academies, and prospective students and family members When: 10:00 am – 11:30 am on Saturday, April 30, 2016 Where: Dobbins Air Reserve Base Hangar 5 1291 Cobb Pkwy South Marietta, GA, 30067 If you are unable to attend the event, please visit https://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/serviceacademynominations.htm for more information about academy nominations. ##
04.04.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Hice announced that he will participate in the 2016 Offshore Energy Tour with House Majority Whip Steve Scalise in South Louisiana on April 6th, 7th, and 8th. Congressman Hice released the following statement regarding the trip: “American energy exploration is critical to our Nation’s pursuit of energy independence,” said Congressman Hice. “I’m honored to join Majority Whip Scalise and several of my colleagues on the Louisiana Offshore Energy Tour. The Gulf of Mexico – similar to the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Georgia – is a hub for oil and natural gas and has the potential to spur an energy boom through further exploration. Unlocking those reserves will not only bolster our economy, but will also lead to the creation of thousands of jobs and improve our national security. As a global leader, America needs to regain control of its energy future by increasing oil and natural gas production here at home.” ### Participants in the 2016 Offshore Energy Tour include: Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA), Congressman Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Congressman Bill Johnson (R-OH), Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Congressman Tom Reed (R-NY), and Congressman Marc Veasey (D-TX).
03.23.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that his staff will host a Constituent Services Day at the Sparrow’s Nest in Athens, Georgia. This event will provide a valuable opportunity for 10th District residents to connect with a representative from his office and gather more information about how to get help with a federal agency. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the event: “As the representative for Georgia’s 10th District, one of the most important jobs I have is to provide assistance to my constituents,” said Congressman Hice. “I know navigating through the bureaucratic red tape of federal agencies can be frustrating and it is my goal to streamline that process for 10th District residents. Although federal agencies can exercise their own discretion when deciding individual cases, I assure you that my staff will work diligently on behalf of my constituents and do their best to cut through that red tape. I invite all those in the 10th District to take advantage of this opportunity to meet one-on-one with a member of my staff during the upcoming March 30th Constituent Service Day.” What: 10th District Constituent Services Day Who: Staff of Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm on Wednesday, March 30, 2016 Where: The Sparrow’s Nest 745 Prince Avenue Athens, GA If you are unable to attend the event, and are in need of assistance dealing with a federal agency, please contact my office or visit https://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/casework. ##
03.21.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that he will host a Veterans Appreciation Event featuring the documentary about the Honor Flight program, a non-profit organization that transports our heroes to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect at their respective memorials. The event will be held at the University of North Georgia’s Oconee Campus where Congressman Hice will make opening remarks and present certificates of special recognition to more than 20 veterans for their courageous service in World War II. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the event: “World War II veterans and members of the greatest generation are a group of individuals full of towering achievement and modest demeanor,” said Congressman Hice. “It is my honor and privilege to host this event which honors WWII veterans for their sacrifice and service to our Nation. I truly look forward to hearing their stories and to showing my appreciation to these brave men and women.” The Clarke Central High School ROTC will present the colors and student veterans from the University of North Georgia will serve as hosts and ushers for guests. What: Veterans Appreciation Event Who: Congressman Jody Hice, veterans, family members of veterans, and members of the community When: Monday, March 28, 2016 from 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm Where: University of North Georgia Oconee Campus 1201 Bishop Farms Pkwy Watkinsville, GA, 30677 ##
03.16.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the President announced his nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to the United States Supreme Court. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the President’s announcement: “The sudden, unexpected passing of Justice Antonin Scalia was a tragedy – not just for his friends and family – but for the Supreme Court, our Nation, and all those who believe in the rule of law and the Constitution itself. At such a pivotal time in our Nation's history, the American people deserve to have their voice heard in consideration of this lifetime appointment. That is why I signed a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell urging the Senate to wait until after the next presidential election to fill the vacancy on the United States Supreme Court. Although the power to grant, or withhold, consent to judicial nominees lies exclusively with the Senate, I believe that the balance of the Court and the fate of our Nation should be determined by our next President.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.15.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the President announced his decision to remove the Atlantic Ocean lease from the nation’s Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the President’s announcement: “With the removal of the Atlantic Ocean lease from the OCS plan, the President is content to deny millions of Americans in the southeast of jobs, higher wages, and a stronger, more robust economy. The President’s short-sighted reversal in policy was driven to placate liberal environmental groups – not on the grounds of sound energy policy – and endangers our nation’s ability to obtain energy independence. According to estimates released by the Administration, the Atlantic Ocean would have unleashed upwards of 3.3 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 31.28 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. It is a sad state of affairs when the President prevents domestic production of American–made energy to placate environmental extremists. It is my sincere hope that the Administration reassesses its decision with economic and energy security in mind rather than worrying first and foremost about how this President will be remembered by liberal special interests.” ###
03.14.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that his staff will host a Constituent Services Day at Family Connection and Communities in Schools of Glascock County in Gibson, Georgia. This event will provide a valuable opportunity for 10th District constituents to connect with a representative from his office and gather more information about how to get help with a federal agency. Congressman Hice released the following statement about the event: “My top priority has always been, and will continue to be, serving the people of the 10th District,” said Congressman Hice. “Whether it is with Social Security, Medicare, or Veterans Affairs – my staff and I are committed to helping all 10th District residents obtain their rightful benefits. While I can’t supersede the decisions made by a federal agency, I can promise that my staff and I will do all that we can to answer your questions, find solutions to your concerns, and cut through the bureaucratic red tape. I encourage anyone in need of assistance dealing with a federal agency to attend my Constituent Services Day on March 21st, 2016.” What: 10th District Constituent Services Day Who: Staff for Congressman Jody Hice and 10th District residents When: 11:00 am – 1:00 pm on Monday, March 21, 2016 Where: Family Connection and Communities in Schools of Glascock County, Inc. 370 West Main Street Gibson, GA If you are unable to attend the event, and are in need of assistance dealing with a federal agency, please contact my office or visit https://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/casework. ##
03.07.2016	MONROE, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) invites all 10th District high school students to participate in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, Members of Congress sponsor this program to recognize the artistic talents of our Nation’s high school students. The goal of the competition is to support and promote the arts and to foster creativity and artistic expression among our youth. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the upcoming deadline for submission: “The Congressional Art Competition is an excellent way for high school students from across Georgia’s 10th District to showcase their talents and artistic skills,” said Congressman Hice. “I would like to remind student artists that the deadline for the Congressional Art Competition is quickly approaching! I look forward to reviewing each student’s artwork. Please submit your outstanding creations to one of my district office locations by March 24th, 2016. ” Students who wish to participate must fill out a student release form, and ensure that their artwork complies with all competition guidelines. All entries are due to one of Congressman Hice’s district offices by Thursday, March 24th: 100 Court St., Monroe, GA 30655 3015 Heritage Road., Suite 6, Milledgeville, GA 31061 211 Railroad St., City-County Administration (Room 2401) Thomson, GA 30824 The art exhibit and awards ceremony for the art competition will take place at the Georgia Square Mall on Saturday, April 23rd. During the event, Congressman Hice will announce the first place winner. The winning artist will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and will be awarded with a trip to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception with other student winners from across the Nation. For details and more information, please visit Congressman Hice’s website by clicking here. ###
03.02.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 3716, the Ensuring Terminated Providers are Removed from Medicaid and CHIP Act. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the measure passed: “For nearly a decade, Medicaid reform has been left unaddressed and patients have suffered the consequences. Fortunately, that changed today with the passage of H.R. 3716 which strengthens the integrity of Medicaid and CHIP and reduces the risk of fraud within the programs. Without this bill, health care providers that have been found guilty of defrauding taxpayers in one state are still allowed to operate in the Medicaid programs of other states. Simply put, this practice is unacceptable and taxpayer dollars are too valuable to waste. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this bill will reduce spending by $28 million over the next ten years by eliminating payments to fraudulent providers while also improving the quality of care for the millions of Americans who rely on it for their health care coverage. The passage of H.R. 3716 today is a step in the right direction towards commonsense reform, and I will continue to fight to protect, preserve, and strengthen these critical programs so that they can serve future generations.” ###
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act of 2015. This legislation includes a package of provisions that increases access to federal lands for sportsmen, cuts through burdensome regulations, and protects Second Amendment rights. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the measure passed: “The SHARE Act includes many important initiatives that will provide continued access to our nation’s abundant natural resources for our sportsmen and women across the United States. We know that sportsmen’s activities have added over $90 billion to our national economy since 2011. That is one reason why I co-sponsored and supported this measure which will ensure our hunters, anglers, and recreational shooters are not hampered by burdensome federal regulations. Additionally, I am pleased that the SHARE Act protects the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding gun owners to carry on U.S. Army Corps of Engineers recreational lands — including Lake Thurmond, Lake Lanier, and Lake Allatoona. I was proud to support this bill today which will preserve our nation’s legacy of outdoor sporting heritage for future generations.” ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) will speak at the American Conservative Union’s annual Conservative Political Action Conference, held during March 2-5, 2016, at the Gaylord Hotel National Resort and Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland. In response to the event, Hice released the following statement: “I am deeply honored for the opportunity to participate in the 2016 Conservative Political Action Conference. As a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I have fought to hold our government accountable. I can think of no better place to discuss with fellow conservatives our mutual goal of a smaller, more responsible government than at CPAC.” For more information visit www.cpac.org. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, President Obama announced that the Department of Defense will submit a proposal to Congress detailing plans to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility (GTMO). Congressman Jody B. Hice (GA-10) released the following statement following the President’s announcement: “With today’s announcement that he will seek to fulfill an ill-advised campaign pledge by closing GTMO, the President has again demonstrated his unwillingness to listen to the American people. Unfortunately, this time it comes at the expense of our national security. Transferring GTMO detainees to United States soil is a clear violation of the very law the President himself signed last November. Having already released 147 detainees — including many who have rejoined the fight against us — this is not the policy we should be pursuing. The safety and security of our communities and our Nation are what is important — not the President’s misguided attempts to build his legacy.” ###
02.13.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) released the following statement in regards to the announcement of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s passing: “This is truly a dark hour for our Nation. With Justice Scalia's passing, we have lost one of the all-time greats, an incomparable and irreplaceable legal scholar whose dedication to the original intent of the Constitution is sadly becoming all too rare. His voice was always respected and revered, and the opinions he authored influenced the trajectory of our court system as much as any in the history of our Republic. It is undisputed that Justice Scalia was a staunch defender of the Constitution who opposed judicial activism. In his three decades of faithful service as a Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Scalia was steadfast in his defense of free speech, the separation of powers, the Second Amendment, and religious liberty. While I mourn the passing of Justice Scalia and remember his legacy, Dee Dee and I pray for his wife, Maureen, as well as their 9 children and many grandchildren.”
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Jody Hice (R-GA) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s proposed budget for FY’17: “Today marks the last time that President Obama will submit his budget to Congress, and frankly, it contains the same irresponsible elements that we’ve seen before. None of the President’s previously proposed budgets have balanced, and while doubling down on the same failed policies of the past, neither does this one. Over the next ten years President Obama’s budget would increase federal spending by $2.5 trillion and increase taxes by $3.4 trillion. In order to restore fiscal order, we cannot adhere to the President’s plan of growing government and simply throwing more money at our problems. Offering a budget that includes an oil tax that would increase the cost of gas by 24 cents per gallon is clearly not a budget that I can take seriously. The American people deserve a realistic budget from the President, not a partisan wish list that adds to the burdens of hardworking taxpayers.” ###
02.08.2016	MONROE, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) invites students in grades 9 through 12 to participate in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, this event is a nation-wide annual art competition that allows high school students from all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories to showcase their artistic ability. In partnership with Georgia Square Mall, Congressman Hice will host a district ceremony for participating students on Saturday, April 23rd. During the event, the artwork entries will be on display, and Congressman Hice will announce the first place winner. The winning artist will receive an invitation to a national reception in Washington D.C., and their artwork will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the competition: “I remain in awe of the talented artists in the 10th District, and I look forward to reviewing their submissions this year. I encourage all eligible students to take advantage of this opportunity and participate in this competition.” A student release form and competition guidelines are available online, and may be viewed by click here. All entries are due to one of Congressman Hice’s district offices by Thursday, March 24th. Artwork may be submitted to: 100 Court St., Monroe, GA 30655 3015 Heritage Road., Suite 6, Milledgeville, GA 31601 211 Railroad St., City-County Administration (Room 2401) Thomson, GA 30824 ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives held a vote to override President Obama’s veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the effort to override the President’s veto: “The President denied the will of the American people when he vetoed H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. I understand that the President is proud of his signature healthcare law, but pride should never prevent the President from working with Congress to do what is best for the American people. The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act would reduce our growing deficit by $516 billion, do away with the individual mandate, and dismantle the employer mandate. Additionally, in the wake of the horrific Planned Parenthood videos, this legislation would place a moratorium on funding for Planned Parenthood for one year and redirect those funds to Community Health Center Programs that offer comprehensive women’s healthcare. The President made many promises about Obamacare, including the assurance that health insurance premiums would decrease in cost. However, last year premiums in Georgia increased by 38% on average. While the President has broken many of his promises about Obamacare, I am pleased that the House made good on our promise to send repeal legislation to President Obama’s desk. My colleagues and I will continue to fight for patient-centered healthcare solutions that truly benefit the American people. It is my hope that with new leadership in the White House we will replace Obamacare once and for all.” ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the measure passed: “There is no doubt that the President’s Iran Deal will go down as one of the worst agreements in the history of our Nation. As it stands, the deal hands a check worth more than $100 billion in sanctions relief to Iran, the world’s foremost state sponsor of terror. The United States should be doing all we can to prevent Iran from distributing funds to terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas, not enabling it do so. The results of this deal are increasingly disastrous. Last week, Secretary of State John Kerry candidly admitted that some of the funds made available as a result of sanctions relief will inevitably end up in the hands of terrorists. This week, Iran’s supreme leader awarded medals to Iranian navy commanders for holding 10 U.S. Navy sailors hostage. Next week, without immediate Congressional action, the results of the Administration’s negotiations and interactions with Iran could prove even worse. Accordingly, I was pleased today to support H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, which will ensure that no Iranian bank, business, or individual who trades in terror commodities can profit from the President’s shortsighted deal-making.” ###
01.13.2016	Milledgeville, GA – U.S. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced the names of the high school and college students whom he nominated for appointments to America’s Service Academies. He also extended his congratulations to Calli McMullen, the first of his nominees to receive an academy appointment this year. Calli, a senior at Georgia Military College (GMC) Preparatory School, received a Fully Qualified Appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. On Wednesday, January 20 at 10:15am, she will join Congressman Hice for a signing ceremony at GMC’s Old Capitol Building in the Legislative Chamber. “It is my honor to select the finest students that Georgia’s Tenth Congressional District has to offer, and Calli McMullen is among the best,” said Hice. “A skilled athlete, superior scholar, and faithful community volunteer, Calli has demonstrated that she is a natural-born leader and equipped for the challenges that lie ahead. I am confident that she will make a fine cadet, and I look forward to celebrating the future appointments of additional nominees. These young men and women exemplify the best attributes of character, scholarship, and patriotism and will go on to become the future leaders of America’s armed forces.” Hice has the privilege of nominating eligible students to the United States Air Force (USAFA), Naval (USNA), Military (USMA), and Merchant Marine (USMMA) Academies. Please note that a nomination does not mean a student will automatically receive an offer of admission (an appointment). It is the service academies’ admissions authorities who make the final determination. Congressman Hice submitted for nomination the following twenty students: David “Chris” Anderson (McDonough, GA), Woodland High School John “Jack” Barber (Buford, GA), Buford High School John Belser III (Evans, GA), Greenbrier High School Fajr Delane (Athens, GA), Clarke Central High School Samuel Eckert (McDonough, GA), New Creation Christian Academy Andrew Fielding (Monroe, GA), Monroe Area High School Korrey King (McDonough, GA), Henry County High School Dylan Lanting (Thomson, GA), Thomson High School Christopher Lumley (Buford, GA), Mill Creek High School Calli McMullen (Haddock, GA), Georgia Military College Preparatory School – received appointment to United States Military Academy at West Point Jake Peevy (Loganville, GA), Walnut Grove High School Andrew Salies (McDonough, GA), Henry County High School Richard Salies (McDonough, GA), Henry County High School Stephanie Sanchez (Eatonton, GA), Putnam County High School Ikerria Sanders (Louisville, GA), United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School Jordan Smalley (Appling, GA), Augusta Preparatory Day School Lily Swope (Loganville, GA), Walnut Grove High School Morgan Taylor (Evans, GA), Naval Academy Prep School Justin Thompson (Winder, GA), University of North Georgia Lucas Udell (Covington, GA), Social Circle High School Hice made his decision after consulting with his 2015-2016 Military Academy Selection Board. He was honored to have the following members serve on his board: Lieutenant General William B. Caldwell, IV, U.S. Army (Ret.); Lieutenant Colonel Seth Hathaway, USMC (Ret.); Decorated Vietnam Veteran Tex McIver; Stephanie Reich Kauzlarich; Chief Warrant Officer 4 Ray Fairman, USMC (Ret.); and Walton County Sheriff Joe Chapman.
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution, S.J. Res. 22, which nullifies the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the measure passed: “It is imperative that Georgia’s farmers, homeowners, and members of the agriculture community are not further subjected to ambiguous rules written by unelected bureaucrats like the “Waters of the United States” rule. If left unchecked, this rule would allow the EPA to regulate virtually every puddle, retention pond, or pool loosely defined as a “regional water treasure.” I was pleased to stymie the EPA’s power grab by sending this legislation to the President’s desk, and I encourage him to sign the bill to protect our agricultural community.” ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Tonight, President Obama delivered the annual State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. Congressman Hice (GA-10) released the following statement in response to the President's remarks: “Tonight, the President delivered the State of the Union address, and I am thankful that he has discharged this duty for the last time. Despite the announcement that this speech would be unconventional, the President offered the Nation more of the same – platitudes devoid of substance and the same empty rhetoric that he has presented for the last seven years. In last year’s State of the Union address, the President intimated that the United States was leading the charge to degrade and destroy ISIS. Yet, today ISIS is far from destroyed. We now know that ISIS is linked to 70 terror plots in nineteen countries around the globe, and we saw first-hand in San Bernardino how those who sympathize with ISIS operate. Instead of implementing a strategy to dismantle ISIS, the President elected to issue a new package of executive orders that would infringe on our citizen’s Second Amendment rights. Despite that the President’s power grab bypasses the lawmakers and the people’s elected representatives, these new executive orders will not stop asymmetrical terrorist attacks — nor will they prevent aggression from potential near-peer adversaries like Russia or China. Only when a cohesive strategy that fully empowers the Department of Defense to safeguard our Nation is implemented can we regain our position of prominence in the world. The only redeeming quality about tonight’s address remains that it was President Obama’s last lecture.” ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody B. Hice (GA-10) released the following statement after Congressman Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3) announced his retirement: “It has been an honor and a privilege to serve in the United States House of Representatives with Congressman Westmoreland. Lynn has a style and quick wit unto himself that I will surely miss, and I will always be grateful for the friendship and support he has extended to me since I came to Congress. The 3rd District, our State, and our delegation have all been well-served by Lynn. Dee Dee and I wish Lynn and Joan many blessings as they start a new chapter in their lives.” ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement after the measure passed: “Since the President signed Obamacare into law, the House has voted more than 60 times to fully or partially repeal it. Today, I am pleased that for the first time, the repeal legislation will be sent to the President’s desk. This measure will not only reduce our deficit by $516 billion over a ten year period, it’s the first step to a patient centered healthcare system. By repealing the “Cadillac” tax and the automatic enrollment requirement, gutting the Obamacare “slush fund,” and doing away with other taxes and mandates that cripple small business growth and stifle our economy, Congress —backed by the American people — has finally given the President the opportunity to put Obamacare behind us. Moreover, this bill rightly places a year-long moratorium on Planned Parenthood funding and redirects that funding to Community Health Center Programs which provide comprehensive women’s healthcare. The President will likely veto this legislation, and in doing so will send a message to the American people that he believes Washington knows best, consumers should pay more while receiving less, and organizations that traffic in unborn baby body parts should be funded by our taxpayers. I urge the President to listen to the American people and sign this legislation without delay.” ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016. Congressman Jody Hice issued the following statement after the measure passed: “I am pleased that the House has accomplished so much this year, both for the taxpayers and for the American business community. Yesterday, I was proud to support the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 to protect our citizens and businesses from $622 billion in tax increases. I am also very happy with many of the provisions in the Consolidated Appropriations Act that the House voted on today, most especially the $21 million to deepen the Savannah Harbor, $90 million for military construction at Fort Gordon, the funding for 68 F-35 Joint-Strike-Fighters, full funding for the poultry lab at the University of Georgia, and the removal of water language detrimental to Georgia. In short, this bill will do a lot of good for our State. I am further pleased to see the ban on exporting crude oil finally lifted, which will create jobs and boost our nation’s economy. While I believe this measure includes a lot that is good — and good for Georgia — I have several concerns about this legislation, chief among them the funding for the Syrian refugee program, overall funding levels that exceed the House passed budget , and continued funding for Planned Parenthood. In September, after the horrific actions of Planned Parenthood came to light, I joined a number of my colleagues in signing a letter stating I would not support any funding resolution or omnibus package that funds Planned Parenthood, which unfortunately this measure does. It is for these reasons that I fully support the spirit of the bill but was unable to support the legislation on the floor.” ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015. This includes a package of tax extensions and provisions that prevent $622 billion in tax increases, fosters small business investment, and benefits consumers and the American business community. Congressman Jody Hice issued the following statement after the measure passed: “With the passage of the PATH Act of 2015, I am confident that American entrepreneurs and manufacturers will be empowered to get back to what they do best, and that’s getting down to business. The PATH Act permanently guarantees tax extensions for research and development, which will foster long-term innovation and economic growth for American entrepreneurs and the business community. Additionally, with the extension of Section 179, small business owners are afforded more predictability, and this will provide certainty in challenging economic times to America’s job creators. Lastly, I am very encouraged that this commonsense legislation prevents the medical community from suffering from the disastrous effects of the Obamacare Medical Device tax for an additional two years.” ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015. Congressman Jody Hice issued the following statement after the measure passed: “In the interest of both our energy security and national security, it is imperative that we are utilizing all of our energy resources in an efficient manner. Through exploration of our copious natural gas supply, the United States has become the world’s largest natural gas producer. Our federal policies must keep up with this 21st century energy renaissance. That is why I was pleased to support the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act which will make our energy infrastructure more secure and will create up to 1.3 million job opportunities by 2030.” ###
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives voted to disapprove of two Environmental Protection Agency rules, the “New Source Performance Standards” rule and the “Clean Power Plan” rule. These new rules would impose additional mandates on the Nation’s energy producers. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the passage of the measures: “I am pleased that the House voted to disapprove of the new EPA rules that would effectively impose cap and trade mandates on our Nation’s energy producers. The EPA has made a habit of abusing its statutory authority through rulemaking which discourages innovation while increasing rates for consumers. Though the names of the EPA rules are seemingly innocuous, the effects of these rules are detrimental. There are twenty-seven States that have filed litigation in order to prevent the EPA from implementing these damaging rules. I am proud that my home state of Georgia is one of them. I look forward to continuing to hold the EPA accountable and preventing the agency from inflicting any additional harm on our Nation’s businesses.” ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015. This measure would require the FBI Director to verify the background of each refugee. Additionally, this measure would require the FBI Director, National Intelligence Director, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to certify that Syrian and Iraqi refugees are not a security threat. Congressman Jody Hice issued the following statement in regards to the passage of the measure: “Once again, Congress has acted to ensure the safety of Americans. Not surprisingly, the President has issued a preemptive veto threat against bipartisan legislation that would safeguard American interests. The attacks in Paris were not a ‘setback’ as the President claims; the attacks were the enemy demonstrating their desire to wreak havoc in the West. As a Nation that has historically welcomed immigrants, we cannot let our reputation for kindness serve as a weakness. Today’s bill would ensure that no current or former fighters in Iraq or Syria would be able to gain admittance to the United States until such a time when new vetting processes are in place. The most important job of the American government is to protect the American people. It is my hope the President will step up to the plate and act in the interest of our citizens’ safety.” ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) issued the following statement in regard to the Syrian refugee program in the wake of recent terrorist attacks in Paris: “As I returned to Washington today, I observed that our flags have been lowered at half-staff to honor our fallen friends and allies in France. While we honor and express solidarity with the victims, we are also reminded that we honor them not by letting terrorists dictate our way of life but by being vigilant as we carry forward with our way of life. To that end, I strongly encourage the Obama Administration to suspend accepting any refugees from Syria and Iraq at this time. While I have previously cosponsored legislation that would accomplish this, it should be obvious to everyone now that this program is vulnerable to exploitation by ISIS. The security of the United States must come first and a full and complete review of screening procedures must take place immediately. In my home state, I applaud Governor Deal’s executive order to not accept any Syrian refugees at this time and hope that the President will follow suit.” ###
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the President announced he would reject the Keystone XL pipeline. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the announcement: “With today’s announcement, the President proved once again that his Administration would rather pander to environmental extremists than promote American Energy Independence. Building the Keystone XL pipeline would have facilitated the transport of over 800,000 barrels of Canadian crude oil into the United States every day, curtailing our nation’s dependence on oil from nations with hostile regimes. Instead, the President has rejected the will of Congress and the American people. During a press conference belied with condescension, the President had the audacity to claim that Keystone XL would not create American jobs despite the State Department’s report that affirmed constructing the pipeline would create 42,000 good paying jobs. This President spent a lot of time talking about climate change today, and not a single moment apologizing to the American citizens who need the very jobs he denied. I had hoped that as a lame-duck, the President would have worked for a legacy that would promote American Energy Independence, as opposed to placating liberal special interests."
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for FY’16 (S.1356), an annual measure that authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and establishes our national security priorities for the next fiscal year. Last month, the President vetoed similar legislation that enjoyed bipartisan support. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the passage of the measure: “Two weeks ago, the President vetoed this vitally important defense bill. Utilizing the office of Commander and Chief to engage in political games while our troops are on the battlefield is deplorable. Now, for the second time, Congress has acted to ensure that the Department of Defense — and our brave men and women in uniform — have the resources and stability they need to continue protecting our Nation. It is my hope that the President will use this second chance to sign the NDAA to ensure that our military remains agile, efficient, ready, and lethal.” ###
11.05.2015	Hice to Host Veterans Appreciation Coffee Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host a “Veterans Appreciation Coffee” on Wednesday, November 11th. Congressman Hice invites 10th District veterans to stop by his Monroe district office between 3:00 pm and 5:00 pm for coffee and doughnuts. Congressman Hice will be there to thank veterans for their service and to discuss important issues facing our military and veterans. “I look forward to Veterans Day and the opportunity to personally thank the veterans and families in our community who have sacrificed so much on behalf of our nation,” said Congressman Hice. “Although one day is not enough to express our debt of gratitude, I hope that our local heroes will know that we hold them in the highest regard for their patriotism, love of country, and willingness to serve for the common good.” What: Veterans Appreciation Coffee Who: Congressman Hice & 10th District Veterans When: Wednesday, November 11, 2015 from 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm Where: Monroe District Office 100 Court Street Monroe, GA 30655 (770) 207-1776
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the Subcommittee on Energy & Mineral Resources of the House Natural Resources Committee met in order to discuss several measures that would take aim at the Environmental Protection Agency for its abysmal response to the Animas River spill. The legislative hearing included more information on a measure recently introduced by Hice, H.R. 3844, the Energy and Minerals Reclamation Foundation Establishment Act. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the hearing: "All of us were horrified by the inexcusable events that led to the Animas River spill in Colorado. Watching those waters turn florescent yellow, and watching small businesses close their doors, that’s a sight none of us should have to witness again. The important thing to remember is that many of these instances are preventable. To that end, I’ve introduced a bill that will create a 15 member board whose expert members would be able to advise on issues of abandoned mine lands, as well as orphaned oil and gas sites across the country. I was proud to participate in today’s hearing and look forward to getting continued feedback from industry stakeholders on how we can improve the legislation." ### Please click the image to learn more
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the President of the United States vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) FY’16. The National Defense Authorization Act authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and establishes our national security priorities for the next fiscal year. Congressman Hice issued the following statement in regards to the President’s veto of the bill: “It is the President’s constitutional right to veto legislation that Congress sends to his desk. However, it is unconscionable and unforgivable that the President exercised that right to veto legislation that is critical to the national security of the United States and the safety of American citizens. The primary job of the government, as is the primary function of a Commander in Chief, is to protect the lives of American citizens both at home and abroad. Last week, the President announced that 5,500 troops would remain abroad in Afghanistan to continue the mission of thwarting the Taliban. This week, for the first time in fifty years, the President vetoed legislation that is vital to the success of that mission for reasons that have nothing to do with the contents of the NDAA. The bill he vetoed authorizes funding at the exact levels the President requested, and his veto proves that he is playing politics with our national security. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House as we move forward in favor of overriding the President’s partisan veto."
10.22.2015	Monroe, GA – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that members of his staff will host a Constituent Service Day in Athens on Tuesday, October 27th. The event will take place at the Sparrow’s Nest, and will serve as an opportunity for those in the community to ask questions and seek help regarding any federal agency. “One of the most important things I do as a U.S. Representative is help people with federal problems,” said Congressman Hice. “That’s why I have a full-time team of dedicated staff who deliver the best constituent services possible. They can advocate for veterans seeking to process their claims, seniors encountering problems with Medicare, taxpayers confronting challenges with the IRS, and many other issues. Although I can’t override the decisions made by a federal agency, I can guarantee that my staff and I will do all that we can to answer your questions, find solutions to your concerns, or just cut through the bureaucratic red tape. If you live in the Athens area and are in need of assistance, I invite you to stop by the Sparrow’s Nest from 1:00 p.m. until 3:00 p.m. where my staff would be honored to serve you.” What: Constituent Service Day Who: Congressional staff & Athens area residents When: Tuesday, October 27, 2015 from 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm Where: The Sparrow’s Nest 745 Prince Avenue Athens, GA 30606
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 10, the SOAR Reauthorization Act. This act reauthorizes the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program for five years. Congressman Hice (GA-10) released the following statement concerning the passage of the measure: “Today, I was proud to join my colleagues in supporting SOAR. As I’ve said before, the role that parents play in their child’s education is critical for long-term academic achievement. This bill will reward high performing schools and incentivize others to improve. It rightly arms many hardworking parents with the ability to play a more active role in determining which school their children attend and should be hailed as a victory for school choice — and most importantly, for students."
10.08.2015	Today, the U.S. House Committee on Natural Resources passed H.R. 2406, the SHARE Act of 2015, by a vote of 21-15. Congressman Hice released the following statement after the measure passed the full committee: “I am proud to be a co-sponsor of H.R. 2406, the SHARE Act of 2015. Sportsmen’s activities have contributed over $90 billion to our national economy, and this legislation only increases the ability for hunters, anglers, and recreational shooters to enjoy our abundant natural resources. I am pleased that the bill guarantees citizens’ Second Amendment right to carry on U.S. Army Corps of Engineers recreational lands including Lake Thurmond, Lake Lanier, and Lake Allatoona. Additionally, this legislation severely curtails EPA’s overreach to potentially regulate lead within ammunition. I was proud to support this bill in committee today and look forward to its swift passage on the House floor." ###
10.01.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, by a vote of 270-155. The NDAA authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and establishes our national security priorities for the next fiscal year. Congressman Hice released the following statement after adoption of the Conference Report: “I was proud to support this legislation which covers a wide scope of issues that are vitally important to our Armed Services, both active and reserve component, during a very trying time for the Department of Defense. I am especially pleased that the NDAA includes a 1.3% pay increase for our brave men and women in uniform and incorporates a new retirement plan for those who have previously been ineligible for participation in the military’s retirement program. This measure maintains existing restrictions on transferring GTMO detainees to American soil and includes critically needed acquisition reform. The NDAA also rightly addresses the growing threat of cyber warfare by fully authorizing funding for U.S. Cyber Command and military intelligence programs, including up to $100 million for activities at Fort Gordon. Additionally, I applaud the conferees for authorizing funds for 63 Joint Strike Fighters at a time when potential near peer adversaries continue their pursuit of 5th generation stealth technology. Lastly, in the wake of the tragic Chattanooga terrorist attack in July, I introduced H.R. 3138, the Military Recruiter Right to Carry Act. My legislation would provide those servicemembers assigned to recruitment centers the right to carry. I am encouraged that the NDAA clarifies that post Commanders may determine if those in their charge may carry firearms while on duty, including those stationed at recruitment centers. It is imperative that our men and women in uniform are able to protect themselves from terrorists both domestic and abroad." ###
09.28.2015	Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) is currently accepting applications from highly qualified students seeking an appointment to one of our Nation’s service academies. Students who are seeking a nomination must submit a completed application to Hice’s Milledgeville district office by October 9, 2015. Congressman Hice has the honor of nominating eligible students to the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy is the only one of the service academies that offers appointments solely on the basis of a nationwide merit-based competition, and therefore, no congressional nomination is needed. “The United States is home to the best service academies in the world,” said Hice. “While traveling the district, I’ve had the privilege of meeting some fantastic youngsters, and I know that many of our students would make great additions to these prestigious academies. I look forward to working with our 10th District students as they embark on the journey to serve our Nation.” ### For more information about the nomination process, please visit http://hice.house.gov/constituent-services/serviceacademynominations.htm or contact Deputy Chief of Staff Jessica Hayes at Jessica.Hayes@mail.house.gov or (706) 564-1286.
09.28.2015	Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that he will host a Coffee and Conversation event at Johnson County Senior Citizens Center on Wednesday, October 14, 2015 in Wrightsville. Hice will speak with Alzheimer’s patients, families, and caregivers about medical research advances from the Alzheimer’s Association, provide a legislative update, and lead a question and answer forum for individuals to share their personal story. “Almost one third of Americans are affected by Alzheimer’s disease,” said Congressman Hice. “My mother is among the many Americans that are suffering from this debilitating disease. Though it is heartbreaking, in the past few years, there have been significant research developments that will further benefit our community and those affected by Alzheimer’s. I look forward to sharing my story, and hearing yours.” ### Click to enlarge
09.25.2015	Today, Congressman Jody B. Hice (R-GA) released the following statement regarding the announcement of Speaker Boehner’s decision to resign at the end of October: “Speaker Boehner has served his constituents and our nation honorably under very challenging circumstances, and I would like to thank both he and his family for that service. While the Speaker and I have not always agreed, I recognize that serving as Speaker with President Obama in the White House is the toughest job in politics. Given the obvious acrimony within the Republican Conference and the difficult legislative battles in front of us, we must have strong conservative leadership and finding the best possible person to lead on conservative principles — while uniting our Conference — is where our focus must now turn. I look forward to building and working with new, conservative leadership as our Conference — and our nation — moves forward.” ###
09.21.2015	Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced that he will speak at Georgia College and State University’s Constitution Day Lecture on Wednesday, September 23rd, 2015 in Milledgeville. Hice will speak with students and local community members about the First and Second Amendments of the Constitution followed by a short question and answer forum. “I am honored to speak at GCSU and thank the University and Professor Matt Roessing for inviting me to this outstanding event,” said Congressman Hice. “I look forward to the privilege of speaking with students and local residents of the 10th District about our Nation’s founding document.” What: Georgia College and State University Constitution Day Who: U.S. Representative Jody Hice, GCSU students, and community members When: 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm on Wednesday, September 23rd, 2015 Where: Georgia College and State University Donahoo Lounge (First Floor of the Maxwell Student Union) 231 W Hancock Street Milledgeville, GA 31061 ###
09.18.2015	Today, Congressman Jody B. Hice (R-GA) slammed the practices of Planned Parenthood on the House Floor.
09.18.2015	Washington D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015; and H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Congressman Jody B. Hice (R-GA) released the following statements in regards to the passage of the measures: “Planned Parenthood’s practice of selling baby body parts for profit is abhorrent, and I was more than happy to lend my support to H.R. 3134 which defunds Planned Parenthood until ongoing investigations have been completed. The horrific videos we’ve witnessed have cast a light onto the shadowy practices of Planned Parenthood that the world cannot ignore. The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 stems the tide of taxpayer money being utilized to fund the trafficking of the body parts of the unborn. We will continue to fight for citizens who don’t want their tax dollars being spent on this tragic practice. Additionally, while we work towards furthering the culture of life; we must stand up for the defenseless babies that are at the highest risk of execution. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act ensures that babies born alive despite the parent’s attempted abortion will enjoy the same rights as any other child. Furthermore, this measure imposes criminal fines and prison time for those who do not follow the law by admitting the child to a hospital. Today was a victory in the pro-life community. I look forward to using every tool available in order to permanently defund a morally-bankrupt institution like Planned Parenthood and continuing to fight for the rights of unborn babies everywhere.” ###
09.11.2015	Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) signed a letter to Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader McCarthy, and Whip Scalise stating he cannot and will not support any funding resolution – an appropriations bill, an omnibus package, a continuing resolution, or otherwise – that contains any funding for Planned Parenthood, including mandatory funding streams. Click to enlarge
09.11.2015	Today, Congressman Jody B. Hice (R-GA) released the following statement regarding the 14th anniversary of September 11th, 2001: “Fourteen years ago, our Nation was forever and irrevocably changed. Because of an unconscionable act of evil, our resolve as a nation was put to the ultimate test. Through our profound sorrow, our country came together to honor those who lost their lives that fateful day. For many of us, today has become a solemn day of remembrance when we take time to reflect on where we were and who we were with, and how the world changed that day at the hands of radical terrorist cowards. I was teaching a class at Luther Rice Seminary in Lithonia, Georgia; and like so many schools across the country and around the world, we were interrupted with the news of these horrific acts. To those of us watching at Luther Rice, it seemed that the terrorists crashing through those buildings attempted to forever break our resolve. They did not succeed, and they never will. We will always remember the lives lost and heroic efforts of so many, and it is with this spirit of steadfast unity that our Nation will continue to stand together in our fight against terror.” ###
08.24.2015	Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) announced he will host Georgia’s 10th Congressional District Annual Academy Day on Saturday, August 29th at Georgia Military College. This event is designed to familiarize students with the application and nomination process for the nation’s five military service academies. Students in grades eight through twelve are encouraged to attend, and no registration is required. The event will take place in the Legislative Chambers room on the second floor of the historic Old Capitol Building which serves as the center of campus at Georgia Military College. “I am looking forward to hosting the 10th District Academy Day at Georgia Military College,” said Congressman Hice. “This event is for students wanting to learn more about the application process, and is a unique opportunity to meet directly with representatives from the service academies. My hope is that many students will take advantage of the opportunity to speak directly with these representatives should they have an interest in attending one of these great institutions.”
07.23.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, by a vote of 241-179. This act blocks sanctuary cities from receiving federal grants, as these cities do not comply with federal immigration law. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the passage of the measure: “I was proud to join my colleagues and cast my vote in favor of this necessary legislation that would stem the flow of taxpayer dollars from pouring into sanctuary cities. We were all deeply disturbed by the murder of Kathryn Steinle and I am glad that the House took action today to discourage other cities from refusing to comply with federal immigration law. Our nation simply cannot continue to foot the bill for cities and municipalities that rate the rights of illegal immigrants over law-abiding citizens.”
07.22.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced H.R. 3138, the Military Recruiter Right to Carry Act of 2015. Hice introduced the measure in response to the terrorist attack in Chattanooga, Tennessee which claimed the lives of five military service personnel. Hice released the following statement in response to the introduction of the measure: “Our nation grieves for the lives lost in the appalling terrorist attack in Chattanooga. The servicemen and women assigned to duty at recruitment offices should have the same right to carry and protect themselves as private citizens. These recruitment centers are where many brave young people choose to serve our nation and neither they nor those on duty should have to worry about their safety. By granting our heroes at recruitment centers the right to carry, we ensure that these centers continue the legacy of bolstering a strong national defense rather than making them a target for terrorist attacks.”
07.14.2015	Washington D.C. - Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the Administration's announcement of the final agreement in nuclear negotiations with Iran: "I had the privilege of attending a joint session of Congress in which Prime Minister Netanyahu warned America, and the wider world, about the dangers of a nuclear armed Iran. I heard first-hand from the Prime Minister about the catastrophic consequences resulting from a bad deal. While the Administration high-fives themselves over this deal, American citizens are left empty-handed and without many of the commitments the Administration assured us would be part of the deal. It's hard to see how this deal benefits the American people, our allies, or the international community. This deal took nearly two years to negotiate and yet still inadequately addresses our overwhelming concern whether Iran, the largest state sponsor of terror, will limit its nuclear activity to peaceful purposes. It is now up to Congress to thoroughly analyze and debate the merit of this deal and act in the best interest of those we represent. As stated in the April 8th letter several of my House Colleagues and I sent to the President, the only acceptable outcome of the negotiations is for Iran to abandon its nuclear program. I look forward to reviewing this deal and will do all in my power to protect the American people, and our allies, from the raw deal the Administration brokered on our behalf." ###
06.26.2015	Washington D.C. - Today, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Obergefell v. Hodges. In response to the ruling of the Court, Congressman Hice released the following statement: "For the second day in a row I find myself extremely disappointed in the Supreme Court's ruling. Unfortunately the Court took it upon itself, in another round of judicial activism, to dictate law that should have been left up to the voters and Representatives of individual states rather than the Supreme Court. I believe we are all God's children, but according to my faith I believe in traditional marriage between one man and one woman, and I regret that the Court did not respect the legislative process that respected the beliefs of so many. I am incredibly disheartened that the majority of what should be the nation's celebrated and definitive legal minds, apparently have lost their ability to reason logically or soundly. In choosing not to uphold traditional marriage, these Justices have chosen to ignore the duty of their appointed office to the detriment of the American people and society as a whole. For millennia, marriage has been rightly defined as occurring between one man and one woman. The idea that five "legal scholars" have decided to overturn every traditional understanding of one holy institution, shows that the Court is now engaging in judicial activism rather than upholding the deliberative and prestigious positions to which they were appointed. The Supreme Court should hold the Constitution as the bedrock of American law. Since marriage is not defined in the Constitution, it should be left to the states to decide, as Georgia did in 2004, in accordance with the 10th Amendment. However, in anticipation of this catastrophic decision, I signed on to H.J. Res. 36 in February, along with many of my colleagues, which calls for marriage to be defined as taking place between one man and one woman. Now as a nation, our only remaining recourse is to seek further clarification through the true legislative branch of Government, which is Congress, and not the Courts. I will continue to stand on my principles of faith, rather than willy nilly judicial activism, which is both inherently wrong and abhorrent." ###
06.25.2015	Washington D.C. - Today, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in King v. Burwell in favor of the Obama Administration's Affordable Care Act. In response to the ruling of the Court, Congressman Hice released the following statement: "I am extremely disappointed with the Court's ruling today. By finding in favor of the Administration, this Court has defied all reasonable logic. My thoughts align with those expressed by Justice Scalia in his dissent that under all normal circumstances the Government should have lost this case. By essentially rewriting the law with its ruling, this Court is setting the actual language in the law because it feels Obamacare must be saved no matter what. The American people deserved better than this disastrous law and they deserved better than this flawed ruling. Regardless of today's unfortunate decision, Obamacare is a raw deal for the American people and I remain committed to repealing it in its entirety." ###
06.22.2015	Thomson, GA - Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) today announced that he will host a free workshop, entitled "Know the 10 Signs of Alzheimer's Disease." Presented in partnership with the East Central Georgia/Augusta Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association, the event will take place from 11:00 am until 12:00 pm on Thursday, July 9th in the auditorium of the Thomson-McDuffie Administration Building, located at 210 Railroad Street. "Every 67 seconds someone in the United States develops Alzheimer's Disease," said Congressman Hice. "That's why it is so important to know the signs of this debilitating disease. I invite everyone in McDuffie County and the surrounding areas to come out on July 9th and get the facts about Alzheimer's. At this workshop, you'll gain a greater understanding of age-related memory loss and dementia as well as what to do if you or someone you love shows the signs of this deadly disease." To register for the workshop, contact Beth Williams, Program Director for the Alzheimer's Association's Augusta Region, at 706-860-5233 or bwilliams@alz.org by Tuesday, July 7th. The Alzheimer's Association is the world's leading voluntary health organization in Alzheimer's care, support and research.
06.12.2015	National Guard helicopters flew over Vermont on Tuesday to airlift food, water and supplies to besieged towns that are isolated and trapped due to washed out bridges and highways. share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Representative Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced H.R. 2753, the Fairness in Firearms Testing Act, to address the egregious lack of uniformity in testing procedures of firearms by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). Upon passage, Hice's bill would force ATF to summarily make video recordings of the testing procedures for firearms and ammunition and make this video available to American firearm manufacturers that have submitted a firearm for testing. This legislation would also prevent ATF from editing any such recorded video. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the introduction of the measure: "I am a firm believer in the Second Amendment, and support every citizen's right to bear arms. Due to the lack of any clearly defined testing requirements by ATF, Georgia's gun manufacturing industry is punished. Additionally, customers who wish to purchase weapons for safety are disadvantaged because businesses have been forced to close their doors. I've introduced this legislation to hold the ATF accountable for this lack of transparency and possible corruption, and it is my hope that this will yield a more productive environment for businesses, Second Amendment patriots, and our nation as a whole. My bill would ensure that the ATF is responsible for recording the testing of weapons on video, and then make that video available to the manufacturer should there be a dispute in the testing procedures." ###
06.12.2015	Coach Richins was also Lt. Col. Richins, a reservist home after a year's deployment as an Army logistics officer in Afghanistan. He was struggling with the disorientation experienced by almost all such returning vets. share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1314, commonly referred to as TPA, by a vote of 219-211. Since 1974, TPA has been used to negotiate many trade agreements. TPA is not a trade agreement in and of itself; rather it is Congress establishing the framework by which future trade agreements must be negotiated regardless of who is in the White House. In order to force transparency and accountability, the bill includes 150 Congressional directives that the Executive branch must adhere to as it negotiates trade agreements on behalf of the United States and requires periodic reporting to Congress as to the status of trade negotiations. If the Congressional directives are not being adhered to, Congress has the ability to "switch off" TPA. Without the Congressional limitations included in the TPA legislation, any President would be free to negotiate however they choose. This bill also requires any trade deal, once finalized, to be made public for at least 60 days before Congress votes whether to approve the completed deal or not. The bill also includes section 108, clause (a), which reaffirms U.S. sovereignty: "No provision of any trade agreement entered into under section 103(b), nor the application of any such provision to any person or circumstance, that is inconsistent with any law of the United States, any State of the United States, or any locality of the United States shall have effect." This means that no trade agreement can change our nation's laws; only Congress can. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to passage of the bill: "While I believe that free trade is in our nation's best interest, yesterday I joined with the most conservative Republicans in the House and voted against the procedural rule to allow for consideration of this bill. I did so because I wanted the constraints placed on the Executive branch to be even stronger than what it is included in this legislation. Unfortunately, our efforts failed by 3 votes. Now, we are faced with voting for a TPA bill that will put 150 constraints on President Obama, as well as future occupants of the White House, or voting down the TPA bill which would result in President Obama having zero constraints as he negotiates trade deals on behalf of our nation. Because I do not trust this President, I am choosing 150 constraints over zero. The bottom line is that he cannot have free reign to negotiate on behalf of our country. I also want to ensure that Georgia has a strong economy that can compete globally. In Georgia, one in every five jobs is directly tied to trade. Additionally, the Port of Savannah will open up new trade opportunities for our great State as trade creates an additional 1.2 million Georgia jobs. Furthermore, voting for TPA is directly tied to ensuring a strong national defense, no matter who is in the White House. Though it is no secret that I do not trust this Administration, it is important for the United States to strengthen our economic ties with our allies and new markets so that we have more strategic partners in the Global War on Terror. Lastly, I was pleased that the House voted to include additional safeguards so that no changes to our immigration or environmental laws can be made in future trade agreements." ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2685, the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations Act, by a vote of 278-149. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to passage of the bill: "I was proud to support this legislation that provides vital funding for our nation's military in the fight against terrorism. While terror organizations like ISIS continue to rob the world of freedom and liberty, it is essential that our military is well-armed, well-funded, and well-respected. This legislation ensures that our military is well-armed by providing for the continued operation of the A-10, and funding for an additional 36 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters. This bill ensures that our military is well-funded, and keeps military pay at parity with the private sector by increasing the wages of service members by 2.3%. Also, this bill helps to ensure that our troops are well-respected by funding vital Department of Defense research on PTSD, so that our returning heroes have the healthcare they deserve. Lastly, I was pleased to support this legislation as it provides support for our allies, like Ukraine, against Russian aggression, and ensures domestic and global security by preventing the transfer of GTMO detainees to United States soil. I look forward to continuing to fight for our brave men and women in uniform."
05.26.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled to uphold the injunction originally issued by a Texas federal judge, which prohibits the implementation of the President's Executive Amnesty plan. Congressman Hice applauded the Court's decision and issued the following statement in regards to the ruling: "I am very pleased that the Court's decision rightly upholds the injunction against President Obama's Executive Amnesty plan. It's astounding that a President who specialized in Constitutional law has routinely flouted our Constitution; in this matter by attempting to grant amnesty to 5 million illegal immigrants without the consent of Congress. We need immigration reform not Executive Amnesty. I am proud that Georgia is one of many states leading the charge in an effort to defend our Constitution by holding the Administration accountable through the Courts. "
05.18.2015	
05.15.2015	Guarding America, Defending Freedom share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. The NDAA authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and includes nationalsecurity priorities and other military-related matters. The FY'16 NDAA passed by a vote of 269-151, with the support of Congressman Hice. The Congressman released the following statement following the bill's passage: "It is absolutely critical that we adequately and responsibly provide for the needs of our brave men and women in uniform and I was proud to vote in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act. The bill ensures military pay keeps pace with the private sector, includes needed acquisition reform, modernizes our nuclear infrastructure, contains important language regarding Iran's nuclear program, strengthens our efforts to defeat ISIS, and further restricts the transfer of Gitmo detainees. I am also pleased that the bill authorizes additional resources for Georgia's military installations, including Fort Gordon, and provides for 63 Joint Strike Fighters at a time when the Russians and Chinese are actively pursuing 5th generation fighter technology. While the Democrats attempted to play politics with national security, the House appropriately acted to ensure the President's executive amnesty plan does not interfere with our military readiness." The NDAA also includes language from H.R. 1897, the Amending the Grazing Improvement Act, authored by Congressman Hice, which enables farmers and ranchers to allow cattle to graze on federal lands.
05.14.2015	Always Ready, Always There share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) was appointed to the U.S. House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources. This subcommittee has jurisdiction over energy production and mining on federal lands that are both onshore and offshore. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to his appointment: "I am deeply honored to have been appointed by Chairman Bishop to this incredibly prestigious subcommittee that is dedicated to advancing an all-of-the-above energy approach. This subcommittee remains committed to promoting exploration of all energy sources, creating jobs, and lowering gas prices. I look forward to working with Subcommittee Chairman Doug Lamborn and the rest of my colleagues on important issues like advancing Outer Continental Shelf drilling and other issues that are central to my concerns for the American economy."
05.07.2015	To see the full text of the letter click here.
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced H.R. 1897, to Amend the Grazing Improvement Act introduced by Congressman Raul Labrador (R-ID) and enacted into law in December 2014. The Grazing Improvement Act cut through bureaucratic red tape and enabled ranchers to utilize an expedited permitting process in order to allow cattle to graze more freely on public lands in the eleven most Western states in America. Hice's bill extends the Grazing Improvement Act by including grasslands and eastern forests in the "Forest System Lands" definition so that ranchers and farmers nationwide can also benefit from the Grazing Improvement Act. Hice released the following statement in regards to the introduction of the measure: "I am proud to introduce this commonsense legislation that will help expand the Grazing Improvement Act, and increase accessibility for farmers' through-out the country. After learning that there are nearly 2.1 million acres of federal land in Georgia that could be positively impacted by the Grazing Improvement Act, I introduced this measure to boost the farming and agriculture economy in Georgia." Congressman Raul Labrador (R-ID) released the following statement in regards to Hice's bill: "I'm pleased to support Congressman Hice's bill, which builds on the successful reforms passed last year."
04.20.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) will join Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Senator David Perdue (R-GA) along with the Georgia congressional delegation for the statewide Military Academy Day, May 9th, 2015. Military Academy Day will be held at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Marietta, GA. The event will take place from 10:00 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. Students in grades eight through twelve are invited to attend. Attendees are welcome to meet with representatives from all five military academies during the event. Due to the restrictions of Dobbins' Air Reserve Base, all who plan to attend must make reservations in advance no later than April 29th, 2015 at 5:00 p.m. Those interested in attending may register online at www.isakson.senate.gov. Congressman Hice released the following statement encouraging students to participate in Military Academy Day: "I am thrilled to participate in this phenomenal event and look forward to meeting the students of Georgia's Tenth District. I encourage all students seeking to learn more about the application and nomination process for our prestigious military service academies to attend. We are privileged to have a longstanding and proud history with many military installations in Georgia, and I know each student interested in applying would benefit greatly from this event. "
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a series of bills affecting the current Internal Revenue Code (IRC), including H.R. 1058, The Taxpayer Bill of Rights. Congressman Hice released the following statement in regards to the current tax code: "Today is Tax Day, the day that Americans are forced to comply with antiquated, cumbersome, and burdensome system. This system forces the American taxpayer to spend more than $1 billion and 6 billion hours just to comply with the current tax code. Imagine how much more time we could spend with our friends and loved ones, if we weren't investing our human capitol in a system that only perpetuates the problem. At the current rate the IRC averages one new change per day. Simply put, it is long past time that we simplify our tax code. As an original co-sponsor of H.R. 25, the Fair Tax Act of 2015, I am committed to furthering legislation that will streamline our tax code and let American's get back to living their lives, rather than fearing Tax Day."
04.03.2015	To see the full text of the letter click here.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced the Federal Employee Accountability Act, in order to address the misuse of "official time," by federal employees. "Official time" is the practice by which federal employees are paid by taxpayers to perform duties not related to the mission of their agency and instead perform union-related activities. This practice, which began under the Carter Administration, is directly responsible for the federal government spending $157 million and 3.4 million man hours per year on activities that are often political in nature. The Federal Employee Accountability Act would ensure that no federal government employee could use official time to engage in collective bargaining, or participate in arbitration on behalf of a union against their employer. Hice released the following statement in response to the introduction of the measure: "After examining the practices of over sixty government agencies, my office has found an astounding amount of government waste. By eliminating the äóÖofficial time' practice, we will return over a billion dollars to hardworking American taxpayers, and shed this shady, wasteful practice that only benefits unions. At a time when the need for veterans' healthcare is at an all-time high, and resources at an all-time low, there shouldn't be over 200 employees of the VA solely dedicated to promoting union activities, not when our veterans are waiting in line to be helped, and at the very least, not on my watch." To Learn More About the Federal Employee Accoutability Act, please view here.
03.03.2015	View a list of the task forces that are part of the Caucus. share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, in a joint session of Congress, Prime Minister Netanyahu addressed the nation concerning the dangers of a nuclear Iran. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the address: "I was honored to attend today's joint session of Congress, and I am saddened that many of my Democratic counterparts chose not to join us. The United States and Israel share an unbreakable bond and must stand united to defeat Islamic extremism and prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. I agree with the Prime Minister that the vaguely detailed deal the Administration is brokering with Iran, one of the world's largest financial backers of terrorism, is a bad one. For the safety of our country and the world, the fight to eliminate ISIS must go hand-in-hand with preventing a nuclear Iran. I applaud diplomatic attempts at peace around the world. However, I have little faith in the Administration's ability to negotiate with Iran, when they chose to send James Taylor to sing "You've Got a Friend" to recently terrorized France. There are not enough folk singers in the world to sing away the potential catastrophic results of a nuclear armed Iran. "
02.11.2015	View the history & accomplishments of the Caucus. share: f t WASHINGTON D.C. Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. This measure will allow for the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline which would transport crude oil from Canada into the United States. Congressman Hice (GA-10) released the following statement concerning the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act: "I was ecstatic to support this legislation which is a giant step in the right direction towards American energy independence. I am proud to join my colleagues in sending this vital legislation to President Obama's desk for approval. Despite the perpetual veto threat from the President, we must pass legislation that truly reflects the will of the American people." "Americans deserve lower energy costs, and after six years of waiting, I strongly encourage President Obama to heed the wishes of the American people and sign this vital piece of legislation into law."
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) introduced H.R. 604, the Nuclear Family Priority Act, in order to address the nation's ongoing problem of "chain migration." The bill will serve as a means to shore up the ever-rising tide of chain migration which continues to burden the American economy. Under the current law, one immigrant can serve as a catalyst for up to 273 other legal immigrants entering our country based on genetics. The Nuclear Family Priority Act fulfills suggestions made by the bi-partisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform. Currently, two-thirds of the legal immigrants admitted as citizens are not granted citizenship because of skill, or need, but rather because of familial connections. Part of the problem the Nuclear Family Priority Act addresses is the false sense of assurance that legal status will be granted to the extended family of legal immigrants, regardless of their ability to contribute to our nation. Hice released the following statement in response to the introduction of the measure: "As a nation we are divided largely on partisan lines on how to truly address the problem of our flawed immigration system. This legislation is not partisan; it's a practical solution to a complex problem. To compete in the world economy, we must start admitting immigrants based on the skills they bring to the table and stop adding to an already overburdened workforce in which unskilled laborers are unable to compete. The American Dream is something that is worth fighting for and protecting, it's not a guarantee. In the spirit of the American dream, this legislation does not hinder the efforts of legal immigrants to reunite with their immediate families in America, but instead rather prevents abuse of our overwhelmed immigration system."
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, the U.S. House passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the passage of the measure: "Today, I was proud to join my colleagues in passing this legislation, which is so very important in terms of advancing the pro-life movement. This bill helps to address some of the most damaging parts of Obamacare, and ensures that none of the nearly $726 billion of Obamacare subsidies will fund elective abortion coverage." Additionally, Congressman Hice announced the introduction of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act. The Sanctity of Human Life Act defines life as beginning at fertilization; extending to all people through the Constitution that life is a fundamental right. Hice, who authored H.R. 426 on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, released the following statement: "I am pleased to be joined by many of my colleagues from Georgia, who are original co-sponsors of the Sanctity of Human Life measure, in rightly defining life as beginning at conception. This is the most conservative piece of pro-life legislation introduced so far in this Congress, and I look forward to continuing my commitment to protecting the rights of the unborn."
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Tonight, in a joint session of Congress the President delivered the State of the Union. Congressman Hice released the following statement in response to the President's remarks. "Tonight the President rendered his vision of the state of our great nation while delivering his State of the Union address. Not surprisingly, President Obama's speech was out of touch with reality. The State of the Union fulfills the President's Constitutional requirement of updating Congress on how America is fairing. The President fulfilled one portion of his Constitutional duties by delivering the speech, but as we've seen most recently with his Executive Amnesty, he has failed to adhere to his Constitutional constraints time and time again. "The American people voted for new representation on November 4th, and the President spent tonight thumbing his nose at the American people's voice. Ultimately, leadership is defined by our actions, not our ideas. While ideas like free community college sound appealing, the truth is, it's not free. The government is already overtaxing hardworking Americans, Obamacare is stifling small business growth, and now the President is asking Congress to support policies that would tax the middle class even further. Americans deserve better than the President's ideas; they deserve a President who is willing to work with the House and Senate to promote economic prosperity and truly foster economic improvement within the middle class. It's been reported that the President is in the fourth quarter of his Presidency. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Congress on moving the ball down the field in terms of smaller government, lower taxes, and more accountability. I urge the Administration to utilize the time left on the clock wisely and pay attention to the American people, before there is a new Coach in the Executive branch."
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. Today, Congressman Hice (GA-10) announced the Committees and the associated Subcommittees on which he will serve. Hice has been appointed to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and will serve on two subcommittees; the Healthcare, Benefits & Administrative Rules Subcommittee chaired by Congressman Jim Jordan (R-OH), and the National Security Subcommittee chaired by Congressman Ron Desantis (R-FL). The Health Care, Benefits and Administrative Rules Subcommittee has jurisdiction over Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, the implementation of Obamacare, and the Department of Health and Human Services. Additionally, the National Security Subcommittee has oversight jurisdiction over the Departments of Defense, State, Justice Homeland Security, and Veterans Affairs, as well as over the Intelligence Community and U.S. Agency for International Development. Congressman Hice will also serve on the House Committee on Natural Resources and two subcommittees; the Federal Lands Subcommittee chaired by Congressman Tom McClintock (R-CA) and the Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee chaired by Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX). Hice released the following statement regarding these assignments: "I am honored to be selected to serve on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The need for transparency and accountability in our government is more critical than ever. Serving on the Health Subcommittee will enable me to look out for the small businesses in my district, whose expansion and growth has been stifled by Obamacare. I also look forward to serving as a conservative voice for the 10th district on matters of national security, and to protecting our natural resources from over-regulation imposed by the Obama Administration."
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. This act allows for the expansion and construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, which transports crude oil from Canada into the United States. Congressman Hice (GA-10) released the following statement concerning the Keystone XL Pipeline Act and future goals towards energy independence. "Voting for the Keystone XL Pipeline Act was a no-brainer for me. Once completed the Keystone XL Pipeline will facilitate the transport of over 800,000 barrels of Canadian oil per day. This would effectively squash our overwhelming dependence on Venezuelan oil, create jobs, and stimulate the economy. It is my understanding that the House has voted in favor of expanding the pipeline, and advancing American energy independence upwards of ten times. It is now time for the President to listen to the American people. "Keystone XL will create over 40,000 jobs, make energy more affordable for hard-working Americans, and lessen our dependence on foreign oil imports. We know that the President is once again threatening to halt the efforts of this crucial project by veto. However, I encourage the President to reconsider the wasted use of his veto äóÖpen' and instead take this bipartisan measure into consideration for the good of the American people."
01.06.2015	Learn how to look up my votes or the votes of any other Member of the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t U.S. Representative Jody Hice was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Jody Hice was elected to serve as representative of Georgia's 10th Congressional District. Representative Jody Hice was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
